CITY CODE
OF
KINGFISHER, OKLAHOMA
2013
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-005, passed May 12, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Kingfisher, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-005, passed May 12, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 948
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A COMPILATION AND GENERAL CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY
OF KINGFISHER, OKLAHOMA, TO BE KNOWN AS THE "2013 KINGFISHER CITY CODE",
INCLUDING ORDINANCES DEFINING OFFENSES AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR THE
VIOLATION OF THE SAME; REPEALING PREVIOUS CODIFICATIONS AND ORDINANCES IN
CONFLICT WITH THE 2013 KINGFISHER CITY CODE, EXCEPT CERTAIN ORDINANCES EXCEPTED
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE 2013 KINGFISHER CITY CODE SAVING ALL PENDING
PROCEEDINGS AND EXISTING RIGHTS AND REMEDIES AND PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF KINGFISHER,
OKLAHOMA:
   SECTION 1. ADOPTION OF THE 2013 KINGFISHER CITY CODE
   The ordinances and codes of a general, permanent and continuing character
affecting the public at-large of the city of Kingfisher ("city"), except for
those designated in this ordinance, have been compiled and codified under the
authority of the Kingfisher board of city commissioners pursuant to the terms
entered into by and between the city and Sterling Codifiers of Coeur d'Alene,
Idaho are hereby approved, adopted and ordained to be the code of ordinances of
the city upon the subjects set out in the code. This code of ordinances shall
be in full force and effect from and after the date or dates specified in this
ordinance. The code of ordinances, consisting of titles 1 through 13, each
inclusive, and all indexes or appendixes thereto, and including ordinance no.
945, enacted January 14, 2013, are hereby adopted and enacted as the "2013
Kingfisher city code", which code shall supersede all general and permanent
ordinances of the city adopted on or before January 14, 2013, to the extent
provided in this ordinance.
   SECTION 2. SUPPLEMENTAL ORDINANCES
   Any ordinances amending the Kingfisher city code, adopted on final passage
after January 14, 2013 shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like
provisions of the 2013 Kingfisher city code. Any and all supplements, additions
and amendments to the Kingfisher city code, when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the board of city commissioners to make the same a
part of the 2013 Kingfisher city code, shall be deemed to be incorporated into
the 2013 Kingfisher city code, so that reference to the 2013 Kingfisher city
code shall be understood and intended to include such supplements, additions
and amendments as part of the 2013 Kingfisher city code.
   SECTION 3. EXCEPTIONS
   All ordinances enacted subsequent to ordinance no. 945, which was enacted
January 14, 2013, are not included in the codified publication as of the
effective date of this ordinance and it is hereby provided that all such
ordinances shall continue in full force and effect from and after this date
until repealed.
   SECTION 4. SPECIAL AND TEMPORARY ORDINANCES EXCLUDED
   Special and temporary ordinances are expressly excluded and omitted from the
2013 Kingfisher city code, but, regardless of their exclusion, shall remain in
full force and effect until expressly repealed. These special and temporary
ordinances include, but are not limited to street, alley and easement closing
ordinances, budget ordinances, rezoning ordinances, development moratorium
ordinances, annexation ordinances and codification ordinances.
   SECTION 5. REPEAL
   All prior codified city ordinances of a general and permanent nature adopted
on final passage on or before January 14, 2013, and not included in the 2013
Kingfisher city code or recognized and continued in force by reference in this
ordinance are hereby repealed. In addition, all prior uncodified city
ordinances or part of ordinances of a general and permanent nature and enacted
prior to January 14, 2013, that conflict with the provisions of the 2013
Kingfisher city code are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   SECTION 6. DIRECTIONS TO CITY CLERK AND CITY ATTORNEY
   The city clerk and the city attorney, upon passage of this ordinance, are
directed to take all actions necessary to comply with the provisions of title
11 Oklahoma Statutes, article XIV, concerning the codification of the
ordinances of the city.
   SECTION 7. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS OF THE KINGFISHER CITY CODE
   As required by title 11 Oklahoma Statutes, sections 14-108(C), 14-107(A) and
14-106, the contents of the 2013 Kingfisher city code are summarized as
reflected in exhibit "A", which is attached to the ordinance and incorporated
here by reference.
   SECTION 8. SAVING CLAUSE
   Neither the repeal of any of said ordinances nor any of the provisions
contained herein shall be deemed or construed to impair, modify, alter, or
affect any rights, right of action or cause of action, whether now pending in
any court or not, which are now existing or which may arise or come into
existence, before the date when the 2013 Kingfisher city code described above
shall take effect.
   SECTION 9. SEVERABILITY
   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or any part
thereof is for any reason found to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of
this ordinance or any part thereof.
   SECTION 10. EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE KINGFISHER CITY CODE
   The 2013 Kingfisher city code shall be deemed to be in effect, in full force
and operations as of twelve and one second (12:00:01) A.M. on Tuesday, October
1, 2013, provided that ordinances enacted subsequent to ordinance no. 945,
which was enacted January 14, 2013 shall be deemed effective on the dates
provided in such ordinances.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 12th day of August, 2013
      /s/         Jack Stuteville, Mayor(Seal)ATTEST:
/s/   William T. Tucker, City ClerkAPPROVED:
/s/   Jared Harrison, City Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-006
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A COMPILATION OF CITY ORDINANCES ENTITLED
THE KINGFISHER CITY CODE, 2024, AND ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR
REPEALER OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER
OF AMENDING AND SUPPLEMENTING SUCH CODE; PROVIDING FOR PUBLISHING THE NAME OF
EACH TITLE AND A SUMMARY OF THEIR CONTENT; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF KINGFISHER,
OKLAHOMA:
SECTION 1.   That the compilation of City ordinances, consisting of titles 1 to
14, each inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Kingfisher City Code,
2024," which Code shall supersede all general and permanent ordinances of the
City adopted on or before August 12, 2024, to the extent provided in section 2
hereof.
SECTION 2.   That all provisions of such Code shall be in full force and effect
from and after the date of this ordinance's publication and all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature of the City adopted on or before August 11, 2024,
and not included in such Code or recognized and continued in force by reference
therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this Code,
with the exception of Ordinance 2024-005, passed on June 10, 2024, which shall
survive and be added to the Kingfisher City Code, 2024.
SECTION 3.   That the repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
SECTION 4.   That any and all additions and amendments to such, when passed and
approved in such form as to indicate the intention of the and board of
commissioners to make the same a part of such Code, shall be deemed to be
incorporated in such Code so that reference to such Code shall be understood
and intended to include such additions and amendments.
SECTION 5.   That in case of the amendment of any section of such Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided this Code
shall apply to the section as amended.
SECTION 6.   Any ordinance adopted after August 12, 2024, which amends or
refers to ordinances which have been codified in such Code shall be construed
as if they amend or refer to like provisions of such Code.
   February 2025
SECTION 7.   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances,
although omitted from this Code, shall not be affected by such omission
therefrom and the adoption of this Code shall not repeal or amend any such
ordinance or part of such ordinance omitted therefrom. These special and
temporary ordinances include, but are not limited to street, alley and easement
closing ordinances, budget ordinances, rezoning ordinances, development
moratorium ordinances, annexation ordinances and codification ordinances, and
all other temporary and/or special ordinances. Ordinances granting franchises
shall not be repealed or amended by the adoption of this Code.
SECTION 8.   That the name of each title and a summary of their contents by
table of contents is to be attached to Ord. 2024-006 as “Exhibit A” and
published with this ordinance.
SECTION 9.   This ordinance and the recodification of this Code is authorized
by 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 -14-111, as amended.
SECTION 10.   Emergency. It being necessary for the protection of the public
peace and the health and safety of the citizens of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance shall be effective at 12:00
a.m. on August 13, 2024.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 12'" day of August, 2024.
   \s\ Geoff Covalt
   Geoff Covalt, Mayor
\s\ Brittney Hladik
Brittney Hladik, City Clerk
APPROVED:
\s\ Jared Harrison
Jared Harrison, City Attorney
 
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF
KINGFISHER, OKLAHOMA
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the city of Kingfisher, under the authority of the
constitution of the state of Oklahoma, do ordain and establish this charter for
the city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I. NAMES, BOUNDARIES, POWERS, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES
Section 1.1. Name; Boundaries: The municipal corporation now existing, and
known as the "city of Kingfisher", shall remain and continue to be a body
politic and corporate under the same name and with the same boundaries, with
power and authority to change its boundaries in manner authorized by law.
Section 1.2. Powers; Rights; Liabilities: By the name of the "city of
Kingfisher" the city:
   1.2.1. Shall have perpetual succession, and shall own, possess and hold all
property, real and personal, heretofore owned, possessed, or held by the said
city of Kingfisher, and shall assume, manage, and dispose of all trusts in any
way connected therewith;
   1.2.2. Shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities, and shall acquire
all benefits, and shall assume and pay all bonds, obligations and indebtedness
of said city of Kingfisher; may sue and defend, plead and be impleaded, in all
courts and places, and in all matters and proceedings; may have and use a
common seal and alter the same at pleasure; may purchase, receive, hold and
enjoy, or sell and dispose of, real and personal property;
   1.2.3. May receive bequests, gifts and donations of all kinds of property in
fee simple, or in trust for public, charitable, or other purposes; and do all
things and acts necessary to carry out the purpose of such gifts, bequests and
donations, with power to manage, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the same
in accordance with the terms of the gift, bequest or donation;
   1.2.4. Shall have the power, within or without its territorial limits, to
construct, condemn and purchase, purchase, acquire, lease, add to, maintain,
conduct and operate waterworks, light plants, telephone systems, power plants,
transportation systems, heating plants, cemeteries, parks and any other public
utilities or works or ways local in use and extent, in whole or in part, and
everything required therefor, for the use of said city and the inhabitants
thereof, and any such systems, plants, or works or ways, or any contracts in
relation or connection therewith, that may exist and which said city may desire
to purchase, in whole or in part, the same or any part thereof may be purchased
by said city which may enforce such purchase by proceedings at law as in taking
land for public use by right of eminent domain, and shall have the power to
issue bonds upon the vote of the registered voters living within the city
limits, at any special or general election, in any amount necessary to carry
out any of said powers or purposes;
   1.2.5. The legislative, executive and judicial powers of the city shall
extend to all matters of local and municipal government;
   1.2.6. The city shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises, and immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law,
and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers
granted;
   1.2.7. The city also shall have all powers, privileges and functions which,
by or pursuant to the constitution of this state, have been, or could be,
granted to or exercised by any city;
   1.2.8. All powers of the city shall, except as otherwise provided in this
charter, be vested in its elective officers, subject to distribution and
delegation of such powers as provided in this charter or by ordinance;
   1.2.9. The legislative powers of the city of Kingfisher shall extend to all
rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the constitution of the
United States, or the constitution of the state of Oklahoma;
   1.2.10. Form Of Government: The municipal government provided by this
charter shall be a commission/city manager form of home rule government, and
all powers shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this charter; or if
the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as this commission may
provide by ordinance. The powers of the city under the charter shall be
liberally construed, and the specific mention of particular powers shall not be
construed as limiting the general power stated in this charter.
   1.2.11. Intergovernmental Relations: The city may exercise any of its powers
or perform any of its functions, and may participate in the financing thereof
jointly with any one or more states, cities, towns, or division or agencies
thereof, or the United States, or any division thereof.
ARTICLE II. OFFICERS
Section 2.1. Powers Exercised By Commissioners And Mayor: All powers conferred
on the city of Kingfisher shall, unless otherwise provided in this charter, be
exercised by four commissioners and mayor, who shall be bona fide residents of
the city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, for the last six months next preceding their
election; the commissioners and mayor shall have and possess such general
powers as are now conferred by existing state law upon the mayor and city
commissioners not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter and all the
additional powers hereinafter conferred by this charter, and shall receive such
compensation as elsewhere provided in this charter.
Section 2.2. Mayor And Vice Mayor; Quorum: The mayor shall be the executive and
presiding officer at all meetings of the commissioners and shall have the same
voting privileges as commissioners. The mayor shall preside at all meetings,
both special and general regular meetings, and in his or her absence the vice
mayor shall preside, and if both shall be absent, one of the other three
commissioners shall preside and conduct the agenda of the meetings. The vice
mayor is to be selected by the commissioners. A quorum shall consist of three
commissioners, one of whom may be the mayor as presiding officer in the absence
of the remaining commissioners and with less than a quorum no official business
may be conducted, except as otherwise provided in the event of a national
emergency.
   2.2.1. The mayor or vice mayor shall be the representative of the city at
all social and public functions and with the attestation by the city clerk
shall sign all official documents and conveyances and instruments, which bind
the city of Kingfisher. The mayor or vice mayor shall represent the city of
Kingfisher in governmental functions and before legislative bodies, as to all
legislation, and shall attend meetings with agents of the state and federal
government on behalf of the city of Kingfisher.
Section 2.3. City Manager: The city manager shall be appointed by the board of
commissioners annually, shall be chosen solely by reason of experience or by
education and shall function as the manager for such municipality as provided
by the provisions of this charter. The contract of city manager shall be
reviewed annually.
   2.3.1. The city manager shall prepare the annual budget, in accordance with
the provisions of the municipal budget act, 11 OS section 17-201 et seq., as
amended, which shall be submitted to the city commission for approval, which
shall be a balanced budget, which budget when finalized shall be attested by
the mayor as being true and correct. A summary of the approved budget shall be
published in a Kingfisher newspaper of record.
   2.3.2. The city manager shall employ personnel and shall carry out the
policies of the board of city commissioners; the city manager shall be
answerable to the board of city commissioners; he or she shall have no
authority to bind the city of Kingfisher by any contracts not approved and not
authorized by the board of city commissioners, or unless authorized by the
purchasing ordinances of the city, but shall have all general powers of city
manager.
   2.3.3. The city manager shall be subject to the policies of the board of
city commissioners.
Section 2.4. City Clerk And City Treasurer: The city clerk and the city
treasurer shall be appointed by the board of city commissioners annually and
shall each have such duties as may be prescribed by the board of city
commissioners, and as provided under state law and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this charter.
Section 2.5. Bonds Of Officers: The city manager, city treasurer, city clerk
and such other officers and employees as the board of commissioners may
designate before entering upon their duties shall provide bonds for the
faithful performance of their respective duties payable to the city of
Kingfisher, in such form and in such amounts as the board of commissioners may
prescribe, with a surety company authorized to operate within the state. The
city of Kingfisher shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
Section 2.6. City Departments: There shall be created a department known as the
"police department" under which department shall be a chief of police; a "fire
department" under which department shall be a chief of the fire department; and
a "municipal building department" under which department shall be a municipal
building official. The foregoing shall be nominated by the city manager with
approval of the board of commissioners.
Section 2.7. Police Department And Fire Department Members: The chief of police
shall recommend for employment to the city manager qualified police officers to
operate the department; and the chief of the fire department shall recommend to
the city manager qualified persons to operate the fire department.
Section 2.8. Municipal Court: There shall be a municipal court which may become
a court of record upon resolution by the board of commissioners, which
municipal court shall be composed of a judge of municipal court, city attorney,
clerk and bailiff, and such other officer as may be necessary to operate said
court as provided by the statutes of the state of Oklahoma. Said municipal
judge and city attorney shall be appointed by the board of commissioners, other
personnel of said court shall be appointed by the city manager upon
recommendation of the judge of the municipal court.
Section 2.9. Appointment Of Boards And Commissions: The library board, zoning
board, board of adjustments or any other boards or commissions that may be
established shall be appointed by the commissioners.
Section 2.10. Mayor And Commissioners, Compensation: The mayor and city
commissioners shall serve without salary. The commissioners shall be allowed,
however, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for expenses or
reimbursement for actual or reasonable expenses, whichever is greater, and the
mayor shall be allowed, however, the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
month for expenses or reimbursement for actual or reasonable expenses,
whichever is greater, unless changed by ordinance. The present mayor and city
commissioners shall receive the above stated amounts upon the passage of this
charter. On every five (5) year anniversary, of the approval of this charter,
the compensation of the mayor and the city commissioners shall be adjusted
upward or downward according to the consumer price index.
Section 2.11. City Manager, Compensation: The city manager shall receive such
compensation as set by contract and be approved by the board of commissioners,
the same to be paid on the same schedule as the balance of the city employees,
and no person shall be employed as city manager without a contract setting
forth the obligations of such person to be appointed in conformity with the
established law.
Section 2.12. Dismissal Or Suspension Of Employees Or Officers; Right Of
Appeal: Any employee or officer who has been dismissed, suspended without pay
or demoted shall have the right of appeal in accordance with the proceedings as
set out in the city of Kingfisher personnel policy. If, after exhausting all
remedies as set forth in that policy, the employee or officer shall still feel
aggrieved, the employee or officer may appeal, in writing, to the board of
commissioners, who shall hold a public hearing on said appeal. After the board
renders its decision, such decision shall be final.
Section 2.13. Powers Of Mayor In Case Of Emergency: In event of war or civil
strife, and if it should be impossible for the board of commissioners to meet
as a legislative body, then for the duration of the emergency the city manager
under the direction and authority of the mayor may proceed to conduct the
affairs of the city of Kingfisher until such emergency is ended and the board
of commissioners may resume their powers.
ARTICLE III. POWERS OF THE CITY
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city of
Kingfisher, including the determination of all matters of policy, shall be
vested in the board of city commissioners. Without limitation of the foregoing,
the board of city commissioners shall have power subject to the state
constitution, law and this charter:
Section 3.1. To appoint and remove the city manager;
Section 3.2. To enact municipal legislation by ordinance;
Section 3.3. To adopt the budget, raise revenue and make appropriations; and to
regulate bond elections, the issuance of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of
indebtedness, salaries, wages and other compensation of officers and employees;
and all other fiscal and business affairs of the city of Kingfisher;
Section 3.4. To inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of
the city of Kingfisher government, and investigate municipal affairs; and for
this purpose, to subpoena witnesses, take testimony, and require the production
of evidence;
Section 3.5. To regulate elections and the recall;
Section 3.6. To create, change, and abolish all offices, departments and
agencies of the city of Kingfisher government other than the offices,
departments and agencies created by this charter; and to assign additional
powers and duties consistent with this charter to offices, departments and
agencies created by this charter;
Section 3.7. To engage directly or indirectly in advocacy calculated to
influence legislative matters at all levels of government intended to further
the lawful purposes of the city of Kingfisher;
Section 3.8. To determine all local matters of policy, except as may be
prohibited by the Oklahoma constitution.
ARTICLE IV. PLANNING AND ZONING
Section 4.1. Exercise Powers Of Planning And Zoning: The city of Kingfisher
shall have full power to promote the general welfare by regulating the use of
property and by controlling the development of the city through the exercise of
the complete powers of planning and zoning within the city limits to the
fullest extent permissible under the constitution of the United States and the
constitution of the state of Oklahoma. The exercise of the powers of planning
and zoning within the city shall be in pursuance of this grant of authority,
except with respect to those matters of general state concern as to which state
law controls under the state constitution. The city also may exercise powers of
planning and zoning granted by the state in respect to matters of general state
concern, as aforesaid, and also in respect to property situated outside the
city limits.
Section 4.2. Scope Of Planning Function: The scope of the planning function
shall include, but shall not be limited to, the development and administration
of a comprehensive land use plan which will provide for the careful and
thoughtful integration of residential, commercial, industrial, public and other
elements to achieve and preserve social purposes, economic values, and
aesthetic quality of the neighborhoods and of other areas that compose the
city.
Section 4.3. Location Of Mobile Homes And Manufactured Housing: The city of
Kingfisher shall have full authority to regulate and restrict the location of
mobile homes and manufactured housing within the city of Kingfisher to the
extent allowed a home rule city under the Oklahoma and United States
constitutions.
Section 4.4. Location Of Oil, Gas And Disposal Wells: The city of Kingfisher
shall have authority to regulate and restrict the location of oil, gas, and
disposal wells and related appurtenances within the city, and to adopt
regulations concerning oil, gas and disposal wells and related appurtenances
within the city for the general safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city of Kingfisher insofar as is consistent with the Oklahoma and United States
constitutions.
Section 4.5. Disposal Sites For Hazardous And Harmful Wastes: The city of
Kingfisher shall have the power to regulate, restrict, and/or prohibit the
operation of disposal sites for hazardous and harmful wastes within the city of
Kingfisher to the fullest extent possible under the Oklahoma and United States
constitutions.
ARTICLE V. FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 5.1. Budget: The city of Kingfisher shall comply with the provisions of
the municipal budget act, 11 OS section 17-201 et seq., as amended, unless
modified by ordinance.
Section 5.2. Public Improvements: The city of Kingfisher shall comply with the
provisions of the public competitive bidding act of 1974, 61 OS section 101 et
seq., as amended, unless modified by ordinance.
Section 5.3. Purchases And Sales: The city manager, subject to any regulations
which the board of commissioners or state law may prescribe, shall contract for
and purchase, or issue purchase orders for, all supplies, materials, and
equipment for offices, departments, and agencies of the city government. Every
such contract or purchase exceeding an amount to be established by ordinance
shall require the prior approval of the board of commissioners. With the
approval of the board of commissioners, the city manager also shall have the
authority to make purchases on behalf of the city at state contract price,
where applicable. The city manager also may transfer to or between offices,
departments, and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, and
equipment subject to such regulations as the board of commissioners may
prescribe and state law.
Section 5.4. Sale Of Property In Excess Of Set Amount: The sale of any
property, real or personal, or of any interest therein the value of which
exceeds an amount to be established by ordinance, shall be made only by
authority of a special ordinance other than an emergency ordinance. Such
ordinance shall be published in full in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city within ten (10) days after its passage, and shall include a
section reading substantially as follows:
This ordinance shall be referred to a vote of the electors of the city of
Kingfisher if a proper referendum petition is properly filed within thirty (30)
days after its passage; otherwise, it shall go into effect thirty (30) days
after its passage.
ARTICLE VI. ELECTIONS
Section 6.1. Commissioners And Mayor: There shall be four city commissioners
and a mayor to be elected as hereinafter provided. The term of office for each
commissioner shall be four (4) years. There shall be held an annual election in
said city for the purpose of electing one commissioner on the first Tuesday of
April of each and every year. The four commissioners shall run and be elected
by the qualified voters of the city of Kingfisher at large. No commissioner
shall be eligible to serve more than two (2) consecutive terms, as hereafter
described.
   6.1.1. Upon approval of this charter, the present commissioners shall
continue as members of the board of commissioners until their respective terms
expire.
Section 6.2. Mayor: There shall be elected a mayor, who shall run and be
elected by the qualified voters of the city of Kingfisher at large. The term of
office of the mayor shall be four (4) years. The mayor shall be eligible to
serve no more than two (2) consecutive terms, as hereafter described.
   6.2.1. Upon approval of this charter, the mayor shall continue as a member
of the board of commissioners until his or her term expires.
Section 6.3. Election Wards: At such time as the official census of the city of
Kingfisher shall show the population of the city to be 10,000 or more, the
board of commissioners shall establish four (4) wards with as nearly equal
population as practicable, which shall be reapportioned at least once every ten
(10) years thereafter. The commissioners shall then run by ward and be elected
at large. As the term of each sitting commissioner shall expire, the board of
commissioners shall declare an unrepresented ward to contain the office to be
voted upon, such that there shall be an orderly transition from the "at large"
to the "ward" system of representation. A change in the boundaries of the ward
shall not affect the term for which a commissioner has been elected and a
commissioner of a ward of a certain number before the change shall continue to
be the commissioner after the change until his or her term expires, although he
or she may no longer reside in the boundaries of that ward as newly
constituted. The commissioners shall be qualified electors of their ward or
city, as appropriate, at the time of their election, but removal of a
commissioner from one ward to another within the city after his or her election
shall not disqualify him or her from completing the term for which he or she
was elected. If a commissioner ceases to be a resident of the city, he or she
shall thereupon cease to be a commissioner.
Section 6.4. Filling Vacancy In Office Of Commissioner Or Mayor: If a vacancy
should occur in the board of city commissioners, such vacancy shall be filled
at the next annual election as provided by provisions of this charter, with the
elected successor filling the unexpired term of the retiring commissioner or
mayor. The board of city commissioners may appoint a person to fill the vacancy
until the election of a successor. Such appointment shall take effect from the
date of the qualification of the appointee and upon taking the required oath of
office.
   6.4.1. For purposes of definition of "term", any appointment to fill a
vacancy shall not be considered a "term". A person elected to fill an unexpired
term will be considered to have filled a "term". A term of four (4) years is a
"term".
Section 6.5. Runoff Election: In the event, at any time a candidate for the
office of commissioner or mayor shall fail to receive a majority of all votes
cast, then a runoff election shall be held between the two (2) persons
receiving the highest number of votes. The runoff election shall be conducted
as soon as possible subject to the statutes of the state of Oklahoma and the
rules and regulations of the state and county election board.
Section 6.6. Candidates Filing With County Election Board: All candidates for
office of commissioner or mayor shall run as independent candidates and may
have their names printed on the ballot as candidates for an office to be filled
at any city election, provided they file with the county election board a
written notice as required of candidates for political office and as required
for the names of independent candidates, and shall be filed with the county
election board during the period provided by law.
Section 6.7. Removal Of Elected Officer; Petition: The holder of any elective
office may be removed at any time by the electors qualified to vote for a
successor of such incumbent. The procedure to effect the removal of an
incumbent of an elective office shall be as follows: A petition signed by
electors entitled to vote for a successor to the incumbent sought to be
removed, equal in number to at least thirty percent (30%) of the entire vote
for all candidates for the office of commissioner at the last preceding general
municipal election, demanding an election of a successor of the person sought
to be removed shall be filed with the city clerk, which petition shall contain
a general statement of the grounds, and charges for which the removal is
sought. The signatures to the petition need not all be appended to one paper,
but each signer shall add to his or her signature his or her place of
residence, giving street and number one of the signers of each such paper shall
make oath before an officer competent to administer oaths that the statements
therein made are true as he or she believes, and that each signature to the
paper appended is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to
be. Within ten (10) days from the date of filing such petition the city clerk
shall examine and from the voters' register ascertain whether or not said
petition is signed by the requisite number of qualified electors, and if
necessary, the board of commissioners shall allow the city clerk extra help for
that purpose; and the city clerk shall attach to said petition a certificate,
showing the result of said examination. If by the clerk's certificate the
petition is shown to be insufficient, it may be amended within ten (10) days
from the date of certificate. The clerk shall, with ten (10) days after such
amendment, make like examination of the amended petition, and if the
certificate shall show the same to be insufficient, it shall be returned to the
person filing same without prejudice, however, to the filing of a new petition
to the same effect. If the petition shall be deemed sufficient, the clerk shall
submit the same to the commissioners without delay. If the petition shall be
found to be sufficient, the commissioners shall order and fix a date for
holding said election. The election date shall be set allowing at least sixty
(60) days' notice to the Kingfisher County election board and on such date as
is approved by said county election board. Notice to the election board shall
be given by the commissioners within forty (40) days from the date of the
clerk's certificate to the commissioners that a sufficient petition is filed.
ARTICLE VII. ORDINANCES
Section 7.1. Enacting Clause: The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by
the commission shall be: "Be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of the
City of Kingfisher", and of all ordinances proposed by the voters under their
power of initiative: "Be it ordained by the People of the City of Kingfisher".
Section 7.2. Passage, Publication, When Effective: Every proposed ordinance
shall be read, either in full or by title, and a vote of a majority of all the
commissioners shall be required for the final passage of an ordinance. The vote
on final passage of every ordinance shall be by yeas and nays and shall be
entered in the journal. Except as may be required by this charter for the
publication of ordinances relating to particular matters, every ordinance shall
be published by title within ten (10) days after its passage in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. Every ordinance, except an emergency
ordinance, shall become effective thirty (30) days after its final passage
unless it specifies a later time.
Section 7.3. Emergency: An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which, in the
judgment of the commissioners, is necessary for the immediate preservation of
peace, health, or safety, and which shall become effective immediately upon
passage and approval unless it specifies a later time. Every such ordinance
shall contain, as part of its title, the words: "and declaring an emergency";
and in a separate action herein called the emergency section shall declare the
emergency setting forth the general facts constituting the emergency. The
commissioners shall vote on the emergency section separately, and must adopt
the section by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all its members, which
vote shall be by yeas and nays and entered in the journal.
Section 7.4. Adoption By Reference: The commissioners, by ordinance, may adopt
by reference codes, ordinances, and standards which it has power to regulate.
The city clerk shall keep copies of every such code, ordinance, or standard in
force for distribution or sale at their approximate cost.
ARTICLE VIII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 8.1. Diverting Money; Malfeasance Of Office: The mayor or commissioner,
acting individually, who shall divert money from the proper fund to which it
belongs, or shall be instrumental in so doing, or who shall transfer the same
from one fund to the other, or who shall be the cause directly or indirectly of
having the same diverted or transferred from the fund to which it rightfully
belongs, upon proof thereof, shall be deemed guilty of malfeasance of office
and shall be immediately removed from office and shall be punished as the law
requires.
Section 8.2. Franchises; Compensation For Right: All persons or corporations to
whom franchises may be granted, or those hereafter renewed or extended, their
successors or assigns, shall, as compensation, for the right or privilege
enjoyed, pay to the city of Kingfisher, a sum not less than two percent (2%) of
the gross receipts of the business pursued by the holders of such franchise.
The amount of said bonus or compensation shall be fixed by the ordinance
granting the franchise and shall be payable on the first day of March of each
year for the preceding year. Such bonus or compensation shall be exclusive of
and in addition to all lawful ad valorem taxes upon the value of the franchise
or other property of the holder thereof and the lawful occupation or calling of
such holder of such franchise.
   8.2.1. In order to ascertain the true amount of such gross receipts and to
determine the amount of such bonus or compensation and for other reason or
purpose relating to the business or affairs of said city, the board of
commissioners shall have the power to examine or cause to be examined, the
books, papers and documents of said franchise holder and any such franchise
holder or agent therefor, refusing to furnish such information, the board of
commissioners shall by ordinance, forfeit and declare void such franchise.
Section 8.3. Special Assessments For Local Improvements: No property of any
kind, churches, schools or otherwise, shall be exempt from any of the special
assessments authorized by this charter, or the laws of the state of Oklahoma
for local improvements.
Section 8.4. Promising Gifts For Election Or Employment Unlawful: No officer or
employee of said city shall give or promise to give to any other person, any
portion of his or her compensation or any money or valuable thing or promise of
employment to any person, in consideration of having been or being nominated,
appointed, voted for or elected to any office or employment, and if any such
promise or gift be made, upon proof thereof, shall forfeit his or her office or
employment and be disqualified from being elected, appointed or employed in the
service of said city.
Section 8.5. Conflict Of Interest: No member of the board of city
commissioners, mayor or any other employee of said city shall be directly or
indirectly financially interested in any work, business or contract, the
expense, price or consideration of which is paid from the city treasury, or by
any assessment levied by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners,
nor be surety for any person having any contract work or business with said
city for the performance of which security may be required, nor be the surety
on the official bond of any employee of the city. Contracts in violation of
said provision shall be void.
Section 8.6. Nepotism: The mayor, commissioners, or city manager or any person
who is a relative by blood or marriage of any of the officers shall not be
appointed to any city office during the term for which said officers are
respectively elected.
Section 8.7. Administrative Services Through City Manager: Except for the
purpose of inquiry, the commissioners and its members shall deal with the
administrative services solely through the city manager, and neither the
commissioners or any member thereof may give orders on such matters to any
subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
Section 8.8. Attendance At Meetings: If the mayor or any member of the board of
commissioners shall be absent for more than one-half (1/2) of all the meetings
of the board of commissioners, regular and special, held within a period of six
(6) consecutive calendar months, he or she shall thereupon cease to hold
office. It shall be the responsibility of the city clerk to maintain the
attendance roster and bring to the attention of the board of commissioners the
name of any person who shall exceed the allowed number of absences, upon
notification of which, the board of commissioners shall immediately declare the
position held by such person to be vacant.
Section 8.9. Books And Records Open To Public Inspection: All books and records
in every office and department shall be available for public inspection in
accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act, 51 OS section
24A.1 et seq., as amended.
Section 8.10. Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings of the board of
commissioners, except as otherwise authorized by law, shall be open to the
public, except the board of commissioners may conduct nonpublic executive
sessions for those purposes authorized by the Oklahoma open meetings act.
Section 8.11. Severability Clause: If any provision of any article of this
charter shall be held invalid, none of the other articles or sections of this
charter shall be thereby in any way affected, impaired, or rendered
inoperative, but shall be given full force and effect, the same as if all
provisions of all articles of this charter were lawfully valid.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
KINGFISHER CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title; Authority
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: City Property Outside Corporate Limits
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
Upon the adoption by the board of city commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of
Kingfisher. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the KINGFISHER
CITY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the city commission and 11
Oklahoma Statutes sections 14-108 and 14-109, and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2013 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2013 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2013 Code)
1-1-4: CITY PROPERTY OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
This code and all ordinances of the city now in effect are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under title and control of the city, outside
the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect
in the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all said outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any
words in this code or any ordinance indicating that the effect of this code or
an ordinance provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be
deemed to mean and include also the said outlying real property belonging to,
or under the control of, the city, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise. (2013 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be fined in an amount set by the board of commissioners pursuant
to the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division I of this code. (2013
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of
the city's indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for city officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      9.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city.
      10.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein. (2013 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2013 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
      2.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2013 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city commission that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or any code adopted herein, or of
any ordinance in this code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city commission may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done shall be counted in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
not be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   G.   Law: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution
and statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   H.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   I.   Or/And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   J.   Preceding, Following: The next before and next after, respectively.
   K.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   L.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   M.   Officers, Employees, Agencies Generally: Whenever any officer,
employee, agency or department is referred to by title only, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the city of Kingfisher".
   N.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   O.   Statutory References: Reference to the statutes of the state of
Oklahoma means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   P.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2013 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Kingfisher, county of Kingfisher, state of Oklahoma. The word
"city" shall be construed as if the words "of Kingfisher, Oklahoma", followed.
CODE: The city code of the city of Kingfisher.
COMMISSION, CITY COMMISSION, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of commissioners
of Kingfisher.
COUNTY: The county of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
MANAGER OR CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall mean and include firm, association or corporation, as well as a
human being, except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIGNATURE AND SUBSCRIPTION: The name of a person, mark or symbol appended by
him to a writing with intent to authenticate the instrument as one made or put
into effect by him.
STATE OR THE STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2013 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2013
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Maximum Penalties Established
1-4-2: Nontraffic Related Violations
1-4-3: Court Costs
1-4-4: Violations Separate Offenses
1-4-1: MAXIMUM PENALTIES ESTABLISHED:
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-111 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
code in relation to maximum penalties for violations of the city charter and
this code, except that in no event shall a penalty be of a nature as to give
rise to the right to or the requirement of a mandatory jury trial. See also
appendix A, division I of this code. (2013 Code)
1-4-2: NONTRAFFIC RELATED VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Maximum And Minimum Fines:
      1.   The maximum fine for all offenses in violation of any ordinance
shall be adopted by the city commission and in such amounts as set out in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code.
      2.   The minimum fine for all offenses in violation of any ordinance
shall be adopted by the city commission and in such amounts as set out in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code.
   B.   Election To Pay Fine:
      1.   Persons cited for violation of one of the nontraffic regulatory
ordinances of the city, other than: a) an offense related to the use of
alcohol, drugs, or any form of intoxicant; b) a second nontraffic offense
within a twelve (12) month period; or c) an offense punishable by imprisonment,
may elect to pay the maximum fine for said offense to the court clerk.
      2.   The municipal judge shall have the power to amend this subsection in
order to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Any party who does not elect to pay the fine for any offense stated
in this subsection shall be subject to paying a maximum fine allowed by each
ordinance and for all other offenses in addition to court costs. (Ord. 850, 12-
19-2000; amd. 2013 Code)
1-4-3: COURT COSTS:
The court costs for each violation of an ordinance shall be determined by the
municipal court judge, with the maximum amount as set out in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division I of this code. (Ord. 850, 12-19-2000; amd.
2013 Code)
1-4-4: VIOLATIONS SEPARATE OFFENSES:
Each violation of an ordinance enacted by the city shall be treated as a
separate offense and each offense shall carry a separate fine. (Ord. 850, 12-
19-2000)
CHAPTER 5
BOUNDARIES AND ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Limits
1-5-2: Absentee Ballots
1-5-1: CITY LIMITS:
The boundaries of the city shall include the original town site as mapped and
set out, together with all subsequent additions as reflected from time to time
as said territorial limits of the city are enlarged. The official city map kept
in the office of the city clerk is hereby referred to and made a part hereto by
reference and the same may be used in a court of law or any other official use
where reference to the map and the boundaries of the city are involved. (2013
Code)
1-5-2: ABSENTEE BALLOTS:
Absentee ballots shall be provided for any election conducted for or by the
city. (Ord. 784, 4-1-1991)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Duties Of Mayor
1-6-2: Appointments By Commissioners
1-6-3: Bonds And Oath Of Office
1-6-4: Meetings; Municipal Policy And Business
1-6-5: Appointive Officers, Performance Of Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 2.1, 2.2, 2.10, 2.13, and article VI.
1-6-1: DUTIES OF MAYOR:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The mayor shall be the chief executive of the city, shall sign on
behalf of the city all contracts, ordinances, bonds, documents, appointments,
or other papers of official character, passed and approved by the board of
commissioners and all city warrants drawn on city funds, when properly passed
and approved by the board of commissioners in regular session. He shall perform
other duties as are now performed by mayors of cities of the first class, not
inconsistent with the provisions of the city charter.
      2.   The mayor shall have an equal vote with the commissioners.
   B.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the board
of city commissioners, and shall have the superintending control of all the
officers and affairs of the city except as provided in the charter and as
hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Require Officers To Exhibit Accounts: The mayor may, when he deems it
necessary, require any officer of the city to exhibit his accounts or other
official papers and to make a report to the board of city commissioners, in
writing, touching any subject matter pertaining to his office, and if any
officer, upon such accounting, shall be found in default, he shall be removed
by the mayor with the approval of the board of commissioners.
   D.   Law Enforcement: The mayor shall be active and vigilant in enforcing
all laws and ordinances, and shall cause all officers to be dealt with
properly, for any neglect or violation of duty; and he shall have such
jurisdiction as may be vested in him by ordinance and by the city charter, over
all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the city for the
enforcement of any health, quarantine, cemetery, or other ordinances and
regulations thereof.
   E.   Request Aid Of Citizens: The mayor is hereby authorized to call upon
every citizen in the city eighteen (18) years of age or over to aid in
enforcing laws, and shall possess the right and authority to declare marshal
law in the event of national or local emergencies requiring such to be done.
(2013 Code)
1-6-2: APPOINTMENTS BY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   The board of commissioners, as provided by charter, shall appoint, upon
the reorganization each year, the following officers and appointees: judge of
the municipal court, city attorney, chief of police, chief of fire department,
municipal building official, city clerk, and city treasurer.
   B.   The appointment of the above named officials as hereinbefore set forth
in subsection A of this section, shall be made at the first meeting of the said
board of commissioners or as soon thereafter as the same may be conveniently
done and after any regular election held for the purpose of electing one or
more members of said board of commissioners. (2013 Code)
1-6-3: BONDS AND OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Each appointed officer, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall take the oath of office, and he shall also make bond as required by the
board of commissioners, to the city, for the faithful performance of his
respective duties, and the same shall be approved, filed and recorded by the
city clerk.
   B.   The bonds of the city clerk, the city treasurer, each police officer,
and the bond of any department head having control or handling any funds shall
be as fixed from time to time by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(2013 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-005, 3-9-2020)
1-6-4: MEETINGS; MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS:
   A.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: Municipal business shall be conducted at regularly
scheduled open and public meetings held in the city hall (or another agreed
upon place which is open to the public), on the second Monday of each month, or
the next following day which is not a holiday, in the event of conflict with a
holiday, beginning at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special city commission meetings may be called by
the mayor, or by any two (2) of the city commissioners, upon the serving of
written notice, as required by current state law, at least forty eight (48)
hours before the time of the meeting to all members not joining in the call.
      3.   Emergency Meetings: Emergency meetings may be called by the mayor,
or by a majority of the city commissioners, upon the serving of notice, as
required by current state law.
   B.   Order Of Business: The city commission shall establish, by motion or
resolution, an order of business for the conduct of its meetings.
   C.   Discrimination: It shall be the policy of the municipal government that
no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, creed, color,
sex, religion, handicap, national origin or age in employment or other
activities sponsored directly or indirectly by the city.
   D.   Voting: Every member of the city commission who shall be present when
the opportunity or need arises to vote upon a question, shall vote thereon,
unless said member is directly or indirectly interested in the question, in
which event said interest shall be fully disclosed to the city commission and
it shall be made a matter of record. (2013 Code)
1-6-5: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS, PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES:
   A.   All appointive officers hereinbefore provided for shall perform the
duties prescribed by the city charter, and as may be provided by ordinance duly
passed by the commissioners; and where such duties are not specifically
provided for herein, then such appointive officer shall perform such duties as
are now required under the existing state law.
   B.   The board of commissioners may from time to time assign any particular
matter or thing to any particular department and may require any officer or
employee to perform in two (2) or more departments. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Personnel Policy Handbook Adopted
1-7-2: Compensation
1-7-3: Participation In Retirement System
1-7-1: PERSONNEL POLICY HANDBOOK ADOPTED:
The 2003 personnel policy handbook for the city, as amended, which is on file
with the city, is hereby adopted and enacted by reference as if contained in
full herein. (Ord. 884, 6-9-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2013 Code)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION:
Compensation of city employees shall be fixed by resolution enacted by the
board of commissioners, and increased or decreased in such amount as said board
of commissioners shall determine from time to time. (2013 Code)
1-7-3: PARTICIPATION IN RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
All full time employees, as designated in the personnel policy handbook, shall
be entitled to participate in any retirement program of the city in such manner
as the state law or the federal government may provide, or in such manner as
the contract may be negotiated either by annuity, insurance or otherwise, as
shall be determined by the board of city commissioners from time to time. (2013
Code)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIFIC CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-8-1: City Manager
1-8-2: City Clerk
1-8-3: City Treasurer
1-8-4: Assistant City Treasurer
1-8-5: City Attorney, Duties
1-8-1: CITY MANAGER 1 :
   A.   Office Created; Supervisory Capacity: There is hereby created the
office of city manager who shall be a coordinator of all departments working
under each of the board of commissioners and in a supervisory capacity over all
department heads.
   B.   Salary: The manager shall be paid such salary as shall be provided for
by contract and contained in the annual budget, and such salary may be
increased or decreased from time to time as the board of commissioners may
determine by resolution. (2013 Code)
   C.   Oath And Bond; General Duties:
      1.   The city manager shall subscribe to the oath and give bond as may be
required by the board of commissioners and the city charter. Said bond shall be
paid by the city of Kingfisher. (Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
      2.   The city manager shall handle and receive all complaints, maintain a
watch on the streets, alleys and avenues, parks, health and sanitation, and
work with the department heads for the purpose of obtaining a greater
efficiency in city government. (2013 Code)
   D.   Attend City Commission Meetings; Maintain Office: The city manager
shall attend board of commissioner meetings as may be required from time to
time, and he shall maintain an office at city hall. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 949,
9-9-2013)
   E.   Authority Of Manager:
      1.   The board of city commissioners may delegate authority to the city
manager; provided, however, the city manager may make recommendations to the
board of city commissioners and shall act as agent for the city commissioners
in the discharge of commissioner duties and each of the various departments.
      2.   The city manager shall have all authority and power granted him by
Oklahoma Statutes and the charter of the city.
   F.   Work With City Employees; Receive Retirement Benefits: The manager
shall attempt to obtain the greatest harmony and coordination and cooperation
from all the employees of the city, and shall be entitled as other employees
for retirement benefits.
   G.   Discharge Of Manager: The city manager may be discharged and relieved
of his duties upon direction and request by the board of city commissioners.
(2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 2.3 and 2.5.
1-8-2: CITY CLERK 1 :
   A.   Appointment: The city clerk shall be appointed as provided by the city
charter and by the board of city commissioners.
   B.   Oath And Bond: The city clerk shall subscribe to the oath and give bond
as may be required by the board of commissioners.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Record Of Ordinances And Resolutions:
         a.   Ordinances: The city clerk shall keep an ordinance book in which
he shall enter at length in a plain and distinct typewritten copy, every
ordinance enforced in the city and every ordinance enacted immediately after
its passage, and shall append thereto a note stating the date of its passage
and also the date of publication and the name of the newspaper in which the
ordinance was published. In addition thereto, the city clerk may attach the
proof of publication of such ordinance. Such ordinances shall be kept in such
manner after the adoption of this code and placed in their proper sequence.
         b.   Resolutions: The city clerk shall keep a record of all
resolutions in a resolution book which shall become law as provided by statute,
such resolutions being passed pursuant to authority of the charter and laws
applicable thereto without becoming an ordinance.
      2.   Journal Of City Commission Meetings: The city clerk shall keep a
journal in which shall be recorded all minutes and proceedings of the board of
city commissioners.
      3.   Keeping Records And Documents: The city clerk shall keep all
documents and records in a safe provided by the board of city commissioners,
including all bonds of officers required by law to be kept, all special street
improvement district proceedings and all other papers and documents and
valuables pertaining to the city in the way of intangibles, such as maps,
plats, etc., and forward all ordinances and amendments to the authorized
codifier as directed by the city commission.
      4.   Other Duties: The city clerk shall perform such other duties as may
be prescribed from time to time by the board of city commissioners working in
close coordination with the city manager.
   D.   Deputy Clerks: The board of city commissioners may appoint such
deputies as may be needed in the operation of the general government of the
city and/or public works authority, such deputies to work under the supervision
and direction of the city clerk, and the city clerk may make recommendations as
to the appointment or dismissal of any deputy and may make recommendations as
to salary or such other matters as may pertain to the office in the way of
improving the operation of the general government of the city or public works
authority.
   E.   Salary: The salary of the city clerk shall be fixed and determined by
resolution from time to time by the board of city commissioners, as well as the
deputy clerks, such to be included in the annual budget. (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 2.4 and 2.5.
1-8-3: CITY TREASURER 1 :
   A.   Appointment: The city treasurer shall be appointed by the board of city
commissioners and shall have such duties as may be vested by law and the city
charter.
   B.   Oath And Bond: The city treasurer shall subscribe to the oath, and
shall give such bond as may be required by the board of commissioners, and such
shall be a corporate surety bond.
   C.   Monthly Report: The city treasurer shall make a monthly report to the
board of commissioners showing the financial condition of the city.
   D.   Transfer Of Records: The city treasurer shall, at the expiration of his
term of office, turn over to his successor, or to the city clerk, any and all
books belonging to his office.
   E.   Compensation: The salary of the city treasurer shall be the sum as set
by the city commissioners and may be increased or decreased from time to time
by resolution of the board of city commissioners. (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 2.4 and 2.5.
1-8-4: ASSISTANT CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The assistant city treasurer shall be appointed by
the board of city commissioners to serve concurrently with the term of the city
treasurer and such term shall end with that of the city treasurer.
   B.   Oath And Bond: Before the assistant city treasurer shall take office,
he shall subscribe to the oath of office required of municipal officers and
shall give bond, and it is further provided, that the bond of the city
treasurer may include the bond of the assistant city treasurer, and such bond
shall be fixed in such amount as the board of city commissioners shall require.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The duties of the assistant city treasurer are to act in the absence
of the regular city treasurer and such officer shall have the same power of the
city treasurer in signing warrants drawn on the appropriated funds.
      2.   The assistant city treasurer shall work and act under the authority
of the city treasurer and follow such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the city treasurer.
   D.   Compensation: The compensation of the assistant city treasurer shall be
such as may be fixed by the board of city commissioners and appropriated in the
budget therefor, either on a monthly or a yearly basis, and payment of such
salary shall be upon warrant drawn as other officers are paid.
   E.   Dismissal: The assistant city treasurer may be dismissed at any time by
the board of city commissioner for a good cause or for failure to perform
duties or failure to perform in the absence of the city treasurer. (2013 Code)
1-8-5: CITY ATTORNEY, DUTIES 1 :
   A.   General Duties: The city attorney shall perform such duties as shall be
required by the city charter and by the mayor and board of city commissioners
and as required by this code or any ordinance.
   B.   Prosecuting Officer Of Municipal Court: The city attorney shall be the
prosecuting officer of the municipal court, and the relation which said
attorney bears to said court shall be the same as that borne to the district
court by the district attorney. The city attorney shall have full power to
prosecute for the violations of any city ordinance in the municipal court and
shall have power to prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error or
review from said municipal court.
   C.   Legal Advice To City Officials: It shall be the city attorney's duty to
advise the mayor and board of city commissioners and each member thereof, and
the city manager and all other officers upon all questions of law, including
the police officers, and shall give opinions in writing when requested and
shall represent the city as attorney in all litigations for or against the
city.
   D.   Other Legal Services: The city attorney shall perform such other legal
services in behalf of the city, its officers and employees as may be required
by the mayor and the board of city commissioners. (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter section 2.8.
CHAPTER 9
CITY DEPARTMENTS AND COMMITTEES
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Control And Supervision Of Department
1-9A-2: Ranks Of Officers
1-9A-3: Training Procedures And Fitness Programs
1-9A-4: Officer Attending Municipal Court
1-9A-5: Authority To Request Aid Of Citizens
1-9A-6: Reserve Police Officers
1-9A-7: Security Guards
1-9A-8: Commission Of Police Officers
1-9A-9: Role Of Police As Fireguards
1-9A-10: Racial Profiling
1-9A-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT:
The chief of police shall be in charge of all operations of the police
department, under the control and supervision of the city manager. (2013 Code)
1-9A-2: RANKS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Ranks Created: The following ranks of officers are hereby created:
      1.   Captain/Assistant Chief:
         a.   The officer holding the rank of captain shall have a combination
of experience and education equivalent to an advanced police officer and shall
have had at least four (4) years of police supervisory and/or administrative
experience.
         b.   A captain shall be in charge of a shift under the direction of
the chief of police.
         c.   The chief of police may, at his discretion, designate any officer
holding the rank of captain as assistant chief of police upon approval of the
board of commissioners.
      2.   Lieutenant:
         a.   The rank of lieutenant is hereby created and may be held by an
officer who shall have a combination of experience and education equivalent to
an advanced police officer and shall have at least one year at a supervisory
capacity.
         b.   Promotion to the rank of lieutenant shall be upon the
recommendation of the chief of police and approval of the board of
commissioners.
         c.   A lieutenant shall hold such shifts, and be assigned, as the
chief of police shall designate.
         d.   The lieutenant position shall include such duties as shall be
assigned by the chief of police.
      3.   Sergeant:
         a.   The position of sergeant is hereby created for an officer who
shall have a combination of experience and education equivalent to an
intermediate police officer and shall have a minimum of two (2) years of
satisfactory employment of a progressively responsible nature in police work.
         b.   Promotion to the rank of sergeant shall be upon the
recommendation of the chief of police and approved by the board of
commissioners.
         c.   A person holding the rank of sergeant shall have a combination of
experience and education equivalent to an intermediate police officer and shall
have a minimum of two (2) years of satisfactory employment of a progressively
responsible nature in police work.
         d.   The position of sergeant is hereby created for an officer who has
served over one year; such rank, however, to be only upon the recommendation of
the chief of police and approved by the board of city commissioners.
         e.   The one holding this rank shall be subject to all duties that are
assigned by the chief of police or ones designated by him.
      4.   Officer: All other members of the police force who have not achieved
the rank of sergeant, lieutenant or captain are designated "officers", and each
officer holding such rank shall be on probation for twelve (12) months.
   B.   Authority Of Chief Of Police: All officers holding any rank shall be
subject to the authority and direction of the chief of police or any officer
designated by him for special or specific duties.
   C.   Wearing Of Bars: All officers holding any rank designated may wear bars
indicating such rank. No officer shall wear any bars other than the position of
rank designated and not without the specific permission from the chief of
police.
   D.   Record Of Promotion: When an officer has been promoted, a record of the
same shall be made in the official minutes of the board of city commissioners
and so kept by the city clerk.
   E.   Salaries: Salaries shall always be set by the board of city
commissioners, by resolution, upon recommendation of the chief of police.
   F.   Right Of Rank Limited: The rank hereby assigned shall confer no right
that is not now vested by law or diminish any authority of the city
commissioners or the chief of police. (2013 Code)
1-9A-3: TRAINING PROCEDURES AND FITNESS PROGRAMS:
   A.   Training: The chief of police may designate such routine training
procedures as he shall find necessary to enhance the efficiency of the police
department. Such police officers shall attend such schools as may be
recommended by the chief of police and paid for as expense by approval of the
board of city commissioners. Such schools shall be required as routine training
procedure of all new officers and officers with tenure.
   B.   Fitness: The chief of police may require fitness programs, efficiency
programs and special qualifications as may be required from time to time by law
in order to enforce any specific statute that may require specific training.
(2013 Code)
1-9A-4: OFFICER ATTENDING MUNICIPAL COURT:
The chief of police shall designate an officer to attend the municipal court,
and any officer having made an arrest and filed a complaint shall be required
to attend municipal court for the purpose of giving testimony. The municipal
judge may enforce such attendance by order. (2013 Code)
1-9A-5: AUTHORITY TO REQUEST AID OF CITIZENS:
In squalling, riots or other large gatherings or where the safety of the city
inhabitants is involved with respect to personal property, the chief of police
or any officer in a situation requiring a command for obedience is authorized
to call upon every inhabitant of the city eighteen (18) years of age or older
to aid in enforcing laws. This authority is conferred upon police officers in
addition to authority of the mayor to declare marshal law or declare emergency
enforcement regulations in time of disaster or in time of national conflict.
(2013 Code)
1-9A-6: RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Necessity For Additional Officers: It appears necessary to plan the
operation and procedure in the city in the event of a disaster such as flood,
tornado, cyclone, riot, military invasion or any other situation whereby it
will be necessary to require competent, qualified police officers in addition
to the regular police officers; and there are times when additional help is
needed to work and cooperate with the regular police force in supervising
outbreaks, break ins, burglaries, drug raids and other situations whereby it is
impossible for the regular police officers to maintain and keep the peace and
the safety of the inhabitants of the city.
   B.   Appointment; Compensation; Hold City Harmless: It appears that a
reserve police force should be appointed and consisting of competent qualified
persons within the city, as required under Oklahoma law 1 , to whom shall be
paid an amount set by the chief of police and who shall be qualified under the
existing police bond, and who, in event of negligence or injury or any other
thing happening, will hold the city harmless from any and all damages, unless
contrary to state law.
   C.   Issuance Of Commissions; Not Members Of Regular Police Force; Powers
Limited: The chief of police shall appoint and issue commissions to such named
persons, such commissions to exist and last until otherwise revoked, which
reserve police officers shall not be members of the regular police force but
shall be a reserve force to work and act entirely under the supervision of the
chief of police, and shall not have other powers or authority given to them
other than the enforcement of laws under the act and supervision of the chief
of police, and only in event of emergency or emergency situation in which such
reserve police officers are needed.
   D.   Issuance Of Badges; Oath Of Office: Official police badges shall be
issued to such persons who may wear the same when performing their official
duties, and who shall subscribe to the oath required by law for officers to
uphold and obey the constitutions of the United States and the state of
Oklahoma, all ordinances, rules and regulation of the city, and all rules and
regulation of the city police department.
   E.   Education And Training: The education and training of the reserve
police officers shall be the requirements as set out by the council on law
enforcement education and training under 70 Oklahoma Statutes section 3311.
   F.   Maximum Hours Of Work: A reserve police officer shall be allowed to
work the maximum number of hours allowed under 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 34-
101.
   G.   List Of Reserve Officers; Authority Limited:
      1.   A list of all reserve police officers may be made public so that the
inhabitants of the city will know the existence of such police force.
      2.   Said reserve police officers shall have no authority to make arrests
in the name of the city unless acting as security officers as allowed under
state law 2  or at other times by and under the supervision of the chief of
police.
      3.   When the chief of police calls one or more of said persons, a
journal, time sheet or record shall show that such named police officer was
called into duty on the particular day, and the time of such appointment and
the termination of such particular event. (Ord. 855, 3-12-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 70 OS § 3311.
2 1. 59 OS § 1750.1 et seq.
1-9A-7: SECURITY GUARDS:
   A.   Petition By Business To Employ Security Guard: A legitimate business or
public authority or organization may, upon request, petition the chief of
police for permission to employ a security guard, armed security guard or
security agency for the particular business or organization making the
application and for the particular location stated in the application.
   B.   Statement Of Necessity: The petition shall state the necessity and that
the person issued the permit meets the requirements under the Oklahoma security
guard and private investigator act, 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1750.1 et seq.
(Ord. 855, 3-12-2001)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit; Term:
      1.   The chief of police shall exercise his best discretion in granting a
permit to such applicant to employ security guards.
      2.   Such permit shall be valid only while such guard is in the
employment of the applicant and shall not be longer than one year. The permit
may be subject to renewal and may be revoked by the chief of police for cause.
The decision of the chief of police shall be final in this respect. (Ord. 855,
3-12-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Limited Authority Of Permit: Such permit shall only authorize limited
authority as authorized under 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1750.1 et seq.
   E.   Nonliability Of City: When acting in the capacity of a security guard,
such guard shall not be a part of the police department of the city. The city
shall not be responsible for any acts of such security guards and such acts
shall be those of the employer or responsibility therefor. (Ord. 855, 3-12-
2001)
1-9A-8: COMMISSION OF POLICE OFFICERS:
The commission of the regular police officers and the reserve police officers
shall be signed by the chief of police. The oath of office of all police
officers shall be taken before the chief of police. Such commissions shall
terminate upon action taken by the chief of police. Said forms shall be kept by
the chief of police. (Ord. 855, 3-12-2001)
1-9A-9: ROLE OF POLICE OFFICERS AS FIREGUARDS:
At all fires within the city, the city police officers shall act as fireguards,
under the direction and control of the fire chief. It shall be the duty of
fireguards to take charge and possession of all property removed from buildings
and fires, and under the direction of the fire chief, to restore such property
to the owners thereof. It shall be the further duty of the fireguards to
prevent the hose from being trodden upon or injured at fires, and to so control
the crowd that the firefighters shall not be hindered in their work. (2013
Code)
1-9A-10: RACIAL PROFILING:
The purpose of this section is to prevent racial discriminatory treatment for
the public welfare of the citizens of Kingfisher. The guidelines regarding
racial profiling are listed in the standard operating procedures for the police
department, as directed by law. (Ord. 874, 10-8-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE B. FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Fire Chief
1-9B-2: Volunteer Firefighters
1-9B-3: False Alarm, Other Offenses
1-9B-4: Ambulance Service
1-9B-5: Fire Protection Outside Corporate Limits
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 2.6 and 2.7.
1-9B-1: FIRE CHIEF:
The fire chief shall be in charge of all operations of the fire department,
under the control and supervision of the city manager. (Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
1-9B-2: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings, and training sessions, and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighter.
   C.   Any volunteer having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a one year period will be dismissed. (2013 Code; amd.
Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
1-9B-3: FALSE ALARM, OTHER OFFENSES:
   A.   Any person who shall turn in any false fire alarm to the fire
department or any officer thereof, or to any other department of the city, or
cause such false alarm to be so reported shall be guilty of an offense and
punishable as determined by the board of commissioners. The penalty for said
offense shall then be as set out in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to
appendix A, division I of this code. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
1-9B-4: AMBULANCE SERVICE:
   A.   Service Established: There is hereby established in the fire department
an ambulance service, which service shall be available to the inhabitants of
the city and surrounding territory, and which ambulance service shall operate
in the area determined by the board of commissioners and fulfill its contract
with the required coverage areas for the 522 EMS district.
   B.   EVOs (Emergency Vehicle Operators): The firefighters on duty shall be
EVOs and in charge of such ambulance service, and shall be required to have
appropriate training, and shall be on such call as determined by the board of
commissioners and the fire chief. Such firefighters shall, in addition to the
duties pertaining to the ambulance services, act as such firefighters under the
supervision of the fire chief.
   C.   Equipment And Ambulances: The board of commissioners shall purchase
such equipment or accept as a gift such equipment which may be given to the
city and shall maintain such ambulance service as part of the fire department,
with the ambulances located and housed in the fire department as shall be
designated by the fire chief and the board of commissioners.
   D.   Service By Authorized Personnel Only: No other person, other than the
authorized personnel, shall operate such ambulance vehicles or service.
   E.   Schooling Required: The fire chief may require from time to time such
firefighters so employed to attend schools to become at all times qualified to
act as emergency medical technicians and perform such service connected with
such department.
   F.   Ambulance Service Charges:
      1.   There shall be a charge for such ambulance service and such charge
shall be established by the board of commissioners and shall be as set out in
the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code.
      2.   Ambulance call rates and fees will change periodically to keep up
with the insurance allowable charge rates. The board of commissioners shall
review the ambulance charging rates once annually. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 949,
9-9-2013)
      3.   Fire department personnel shall not take payment for the medical
services that they provide. All ambulance bills and payments shall be made upon
invoice from the city of Kingfisher or its duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
1-9B-5: FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   Authority To Respond; Exception: The fire department is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls within a distance of ten
(10) miles from the nearest fire station unless, in the opinion of the fire
chief, it is inexpedient to do so on the account of another fire in the city,
broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other physical
conditions making it impossible to answer such calls.
   B.   Benefits To Firefighters: All firefighters of the fire department
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside of the
corporate limits of the city, as herein provided, shall be the same as if they
are serving within the corporate limits of the city.
   C.   Charges: The board of commissioners shall establish charges for fire
calls outside the corporate limits of the city. Said charges shall be as set
out in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code.
(2013 Code; amd. Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
ARTICLE C. CITY-COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Definitions
1-9C-2: Commission Authority
1-9C-3: Powers During Emergencies
1-9C-4: Nonliability Of City
1-9C-5: City Acceptance Of Assistance
1-9C-6: Penalty
1-9C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be construed as follows,
unless a contrary intent appears clear from the context:
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to protect the public
peace, health and safety, and to preserve lives and property, in the city of
Kingfisher, Oklahoma, during any emergency resulting from enemy attack,
sabotage, terrorism, or other hostile action, or from any flood, drought, fire,
hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or near the city of
Kingfisher, Oklahoma, and involving imminent or actual peril to life and
property in the city of Kingfisher. These functions include administration,
organization, planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare
service, relief service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue
service, medical service, health service, transportation service,
communications service, streets and sewers service, utilities service, general
engineering service, plant protection service, supply service, mutual aid,
mobile support, evacuation, and all other functions necessary or incidental to
the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage, terrorist activity or other hostile action, anywhere within
the United States, and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the
city of Kingfisher. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist only when the mayor
of the city of Kingfisher shall so declare by public proclamation. Such
emergency shall be deemed to continue to exist until the mayor declares its
termination by public proclamation, or until the city commission declares its
termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or
near the city of Kingfisher, and involving imminent peril to lives and property
in the city of Kingfisher. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be
terminated under the same conditions as prescribed for an enemy caused
emergency. (2013 Code)
1-9C-2: COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
The city commission shall be in charge of emergency management. (2013 Code)
1-9C-3: POWERS DURING EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Enemy Caused Emergency: In the event of any actual enemy caused
emergency, as proclaimed by the mayor as the director of emergency management,
the mayor may exercise during such emergency, and have the power to enforce,
all rules and regulations relating to emergency management, and acting under
the authority of statutes, when enacted, or under his authority as an agent of
the governor of Oklahoma, may take control of all means of transportation and
communications, all stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and supplies, and
all facilities, including buildings and plants, and exercise all powers
necessary to secure the safety and protection of the civilian population. In
exercising such powers, he shall be guided by regulations and orders issued by
the federal government and the governor of Oklahoma relating to emergency
management, and shall take no action contrary to orders which may be issued by
the governor under similar emergency powers.
   B.   Natural Emergency: In the event of any natural emergency as proclaimed
by the mayor as the director of emergency management, the mayor shall
coordinate in every way proper the activities of the emergency management
organization. He is specifically charged in such emergency with the collection,
evaluation, and dissemination of information to all agencies, both public and
private, participating in the city emergency management organization or
cooperating in any such emergency. He shall, as director, have the power to
recommend appropriate action, but he shall not otherwise have control over the
participating agencies. He shall also recommend to the commissioners the
allocation of any funds received from the federal or state governments or from
any other source to alleviate distress and aid in restoring normal conditions.
(2013 Code)
1-9C-4: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Neither the city nor any officer or member of the emergency management
organization provided for in this article shall be liable for personal injury
or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer
emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency
management activity prior to or during either an enemy caused or a natural
emergency. Nor shall the city or any such officer or member be liable for the
death or injury of any person, or damage to property, resulting from such
emergency management activity prior to or during either an enemy caused or a
natural emergency. (2013 Code)
1-9C-5: CITY ACCEPTANCE OF ASSISTANCE:
Whenever the federal government or the state, or any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the city any services, equipment, supplies,
materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or loan, for purposes of emergency
management, the mayor may accept such offer and may authorize the director of
emergency management to receive same subject to the terms of the offer and the
rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer. (2013 Code)
1-9C-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article in the city,
including unauthorized warnings and all clear signals, or who shall fail to
carry out any of the provisions of this article or to comply therewith, or with
any of the orders, rules or regulations made under the authority hereof, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine in
an amount set by the board of commissioners as set out in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division III of this code. Each day that the violation
occurs is a separate offense. (2013 Code)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Department Created
1-9D-2: Park Superintendent And Employees
1-9D-3: Responsibilities Of Park Superintendent
1-9D-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a municipal parks and recreation department to have
charge, control and supervision of all city parks dedicated, conveyed and
purchased. (2013 Code)
1-9D-2: PARK SUPERINTENDENT AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Park Superintendent: There is hereby created the office of park
superintendent. The city park superintendent shall hold his office at the will
of the board of city commissioners.
   B.   Employees: The city manager may employ additional help to work under
the supervision of the park superintendent as may be required to successfully
and properly operate, care for and keep said parks of the city. (2013 Code)
1-9D-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK SUPERINTENDENT:
It shall be the duty of the park superintendent:
   A.   To make studies, attend related park seminars and training, participate
in the proper planning and promotion of programs to afford the city a better
park program.
   B.   To control and maintain all dedicated city parks and parkways,
including the aquatic center and municipal golf course.
   C.   With assistance of the city police department, to enforce any park,
aquatic center, or municipal golf course rules ordained by the board of city
commissioners and make appropriate arrests for violations. (2013 Code)
   D.   To approve park use for special occasions. If said special occasion
requires exclusive use of a park to reasonably serve the goals of the special
occasion, the requested use may be granted as exclusive. All permits shall be
issued through the office of the city clerk upon approval of the park
superintendent. (Ord. 943, 3-12-2012)
In the event that exclusive use is granted, the park superintendent, or the
city police department, may remove individuals interfering with the special
occasion and issue fines in such amount as set by the board of commissioners as
set out in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code
for each individual violation thereof. (Ord. 943, 3-12-2012; amd. 2013 Code)
ARTICLE E. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLANNING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Committee Created; Appointment; Terms
1-9E-2: Powers And Duties
1-9E-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created a local capital improvements
planning committee for the city in compliance with the provisions of the
Oklahoma capital improvement planning act 1 .
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation: The local capital
improvements planning committee shall consist of at least three (3) but not
more than ten (10) voting members, to be appointed by the mayor, subject to the
confirmation of the city commission. All members must be residents of the city
and shall serve without salary.
   C.   Terms; Removal: Terms of the members shall be established in the same
manner as for those for a municipal planning commission, and removal procedures
for the committee shall also be the same as for a municipal planning
commission. (Ord. 838, 7-6-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 62 OS § 901 et seq.
1-9E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Responsibility: The local capital improvements planning
committee has the general responsibility to assist the city in planning for the
future development, growth and improvement of the city, and in preparing,
adopting, implementing and annually amending the local capital improvements
plan and its related programs, consistent with the goals, guidelines and other
provisions of the Oklahoma capital improvements planning act.
   B.   Duties: The committee shall also:
      1.   Prepare the city's capital improvements plan;
      2.   Make recommendations to the city regarding the adoption of the plan;
      3.   Serve in an ongoing advisory capacity to the city commission
regarding implementation of the plan, particularly in the annual update phase
of the planning process;
      4.   Conduct public hearings and solicit and encourage participation, as
required by, and in accordance with, applicable provisions of the Oklahoma
capital improvements planning act;
      5.   Take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the city's
capital improvements planning process, consistent with local ordinances and
policy, and state law requirements, including the capacity to recommend
agreements with other area jurisdictions, in order to carry out the purposes of
the capital improvements planning process; and
      6.   Maintain a working relationship with the appropriate regional
planning council (the Northern Oklahoma development authority), in order to
ensure that the statutory requirements for integrating the city's plan into the
NODA regional capital improvements plan, each year, are fully met, to the
benefit of the city and the state. (Ord. 838, 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 10
PENSION AND RETIREMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Police Pension And Retirement System
1-10-2: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-10-3: Public Employees Retirement System
1-10-1: POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
The police department of the city shall be subject to all of the provisions of
the Oklahoma state police pension and retirement system act 1 , the provisions
of which are hereby accepted by the city for the use and benefit of its police
department, which shall also be subject to all of the obligations thereunder.
(2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 50-101 et seq.
1-10-2: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
The fire department of the city shall be subject to all of the provisions of
the Oklahoma state firefighters pension and retirement system act 1 , the
provisions of which are hereby accepted by the city for the use and benefit of
its fire department, which shall also be subject to all of the obligations
thereunder. (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 49-100 et seq.
1-10-3: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
For the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part
of the city employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized, created and established, approved and adopted, effective as of July
6, 1999, the funded pension plan designated the "Oklahoma Public Employees
Retirement Plan Of Kingfisher, Oklahoma" 1 . (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 11 OS § 48-101 et seq.; 74 OS § 901 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
RECREATION AUTHORITY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Authority Created And Accepted
1-11-1: AUTHORITY CREATED AND ACCEPTED:
   A.   On March 5, 1996, a certain trust indenture was executed creating the
Kingfisher recreation authority naming the city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, as
beneficiary thereof and providing for the development of recreation within and
without the territorial limits of the city, and to provide additional
recreational opportunities which will benefit and strengthen the quality of
life for inhabitants of the city.
   B.   Said trust is hereby accepted for the benefit of the city and its
inhabitants, and the city, by its proper officers, is hereby empowered to
transact any business so authorized by said trust. (Ord. 815, 3-5-1996)
CHAPTER 12
MUNICIPAL COURT 1
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-12-3: Judge Of The Court
1-12-4: Chief Of Police
1-12-5: Clerk Of The Court
1-12-6: Prosecuting Attorney
1-12-7: Rules Of The Court
1-12-8: Written Complaints To Prosecute Violations
1-12-9: Traffic Violations; Procedure
1-12-10: Traffic Violations Bureau; Payment Of Fines
1-12-11: Summons For Arrest
1-12-12: Arrest Warrant
1-12-13: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
1-12-14: Trials And Judgments
1-12-15: Failure To Appear In Response To Summons
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter section 2.8.
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words and terms shall mean:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The police officer in charge of the police force of the city.
CLERK: The clerk of the city, including any deputy or neighbor of the office
staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city of Kingfisher.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and the board of city commissioners.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, aforesaid, including any acting judge
or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and
this chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma, wherein the government of the city is situated. (2013 Code)
1-12-2: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (2013 Code)
1-12-3: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Qualifications: There shall be one judge of the court. A judge need not
be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he must be a resident of the city,
possessed of good moral character. A judge who is a licensed attorney may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he shall not accept
employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or arising out of facts which
give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court,
pending therein or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
   B.   Term: The official term of the judge shall be one year. Each judge,
unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor is
appointed and qualified.
   C.   Acting Judge: If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge,
duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall
appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for
the judge, who shall preside, as acting judge, over the court in the
disposition of pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge
shall be available.
   D.   Appointments:
      1.   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the
consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and
shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body
may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present
and acting. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body,
unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
      2.   Alternate judges may be appointed by the regular judge with the
consent of the mayor on a case by case basis if necessary.
   E.   Salaries: The judge, alternate judge, or acting judge shall receive
such salary as approved by the governing body, paid in the same manner as the
salaries of other officials of the city.
   F.   Removal And Vacancy Procedure; Hearing:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the city
commission, for the causes prescribed by the state constitution and laws for
removal from public offices. Provisions of the Oklahoma administrative
procedure act governing individual proceedings, 75 Oklahoma Statutes sections
308 through 317 and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time
of the hearing, shall govern removal proceedings hereunder, so far as they can
be made applicable.
      2.   A vacancy in the office of municipal judge shall occur if the
incumbent: a) dies, b) resigns, c) ceases to possess the qualifications for the
office, or d) is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
municipal judge, the mayor shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired
term, using the same procedure as for an original appointment.
      3.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter, and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled: a) to representation by counsel; b) to
present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him; and c) to
have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      4.   So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedures act 1  governing individual proceedings, and
any amendments or additions thereto in effect at the time of the hearing, shall
govern removal proceedings hereunder.
      5.   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
   G.   Disqualification Of Judge: In prosecutions before the court, no change
of venue shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may
certify his disqualification or he may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a
judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting
judge, appointed as provided in this section. (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309 - 317.
1-12-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the chief of police, who shall be the principal officer of the court. (2013
Code)
1-12-5: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Designation: The city clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be
the clerk of the court.
   B.   Duties: The clerk of the court shall:
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of
the court.
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct.
      5.   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the court.
      6.   Pay to the city treasurer, on the first and the fifteenth days of
each month, all monies so received by him, except such special deposits or fees
as shall be received to be disbursed by him for special purposes. All monies
paid to the treasurer shall be placed in the general fund of the municipality,
or in such other fund as the governing body may direct, and it shall be used in
the operation of the municipal government in accordance with budgetary
arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
   C.   Bond: The clerk of the court may be required by the governing body to
give bond. When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the governing body
for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the city clerk and retained
in the municipal archives. (2013 Code)
1-12-6: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
The city attorney, or his duly designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He shall prosecute all alleged violations of the
ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute
and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from this court to any
other courts of the state, and to represent the city in all proceedings arising
out of matters in this court. (2013 Code)
1-12-7: RULES OF THE COURT:
   A.   Prescribed By Judge: The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct
of the business of the court.
   B.   Enforcement: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed against
process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district court of this state. (2013 Code)
1-12-8: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS:
All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of the city shall be styled "The
City of Kingfisher v. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged. (2013 Code)
1-12-9: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Citation Issuance:
      1.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the city, committed by a resident
thereof, in lieu of arresting such person, he may take his name, address,
operator's license number, the registered license number of the motor vehicle
involved, and any other pertinent and necessary information, and may issue to
him, in writing in form prescribed by the mayor or his duly designated
delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above information; and, further,
stating the traffic violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to
answer to the charge against him in the court at a time, not later than fifteen
(15) days thereafter, specified in the citation.
      2.   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation, to answer as specified, shall release said
person from custody.
      3.   If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Custody, Bail, Release:
      1.   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident of
the city, the police officer may, in his discretion, take him into custody
under arrest. The arrested person either: a) shall be taken immediately before
the judge for further proceedings according to law; or b) shall have bail fixed
for his release in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and 47
Oklahoma Statutes.
      2.   Upon providing the bail as fixed, and upon giving his written
promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A of this
section, he shall be released from custody.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in subsection A of this section, with such variation as the
circumstances require. The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under subsection A of this section. (2013 Code)
1-12-10: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; PAYMENT OF FINES:
   A.   Bureau Established: A traffic violations bureau is established as a
division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the
clerk or by subordinates designated for that purpose. Persons who are cited for
violation of one of the traffic ordinances of the city, other than: 1) a second
offense within a twelve (12) month period; or 2) a traffic or other violation
resulting in personal injury or property damage, may elect to pay a fine in the
violations bureau according to a schedule of fines prescribed from time to time
by the judge. The payment shall constitute a final determination of the cause
against the defendant.
   B.   Rules; Payment Of Fine: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect
this section. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this section
fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Election To Pay Fine: Persons cited for violation of one of the traffic
regulatory ordinances of the city, other than: 1) an offense related to the use
of alcohol, drugs, or any form of intoxicant; 2) a second traffic offense
within a twelve (12) month period; 3) a driver's license offense; or 4) an
offense punishable by a fine of more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or by
imprisonment, may elect to pay a fine in the traffic violations bureau
according to the schedule of fines listed in the fines and fees schedule
pursuant to appendix A, division II of this code.
   D.   Designation Of Fines By Judge: The judge of the municipal court shall
designate the specified offenses for which payment of fines may be accepted by
the traffic violations bureau and shall specify by suitable schedules the
amount of such fines for first, second and subsequent offenses, and shall
further specify what number of such offenses shall require appearance before
the judge. (2013 Code)
1-12-11: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an
ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or
unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested
and has given bond for appearance, may issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in
the court on a day to be fixed by the court, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as
provided by this chapter. (2013 Code)
1-12-12: ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the city
attorney or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in such
form as prescribed by the court.
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It shall be the duty of the chief of police,
personally, or through a duly constituted member of the police force of the
city, or through any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute
said warrant as promptly as possible. (2013 Code)
1-12-13: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
   A.   Arraignment: Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read
the complaint to the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the
right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction,
and ask him whether he pleads guilty or not guilty.
   B.   Guilty Plea: If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
   C.   Plea Of Not Guilty: If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for
jury trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at
a later date. (2013 Code)
1-12-14: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Presence At Trial: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial.
   C.   Trial Of Misdemeanors: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   D.   Judgment Of Court: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   E.   Witness Fees:
      1.   Fees And Mileage Allowed: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court,
other than police officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to a fee as set
by the city for each day of attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and
necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the place of attendance (if
their residence is outside the limits of the municipality). However, no witness
shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time
or the same travel.
      2.   Deposit From Defendant; Exception For Indigents:
         a.   Deposit Required: A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day
of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
         b.   Indigent Defendants: Such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out: 1) the names of no more
than three (3) witnesses; 2) that the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is
unable to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law; 3) that the testimony of
said witnesses is material; and 4) that their attendance at the trial is
necessary for his proper defense. The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by
the city.
   F.   Entry In Docket: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   G.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   H.   Suspension Of Sentence: After conviction and sentence, the judge may
suspend sentence in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by, Oklahoma Statutes.
   I.   Tax Costs To Defendant: If the judgment of conviction is entered, the
clerk of the court shall tax the costs to the defendant in such amount as set
by the board of commissioners as provided for in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division III of this code.
   J.   Fines Recoverable By Civil Action; Failure To Pay Separate Offense,
Imprisonment:
      1.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction, in addition to any other method provided by law.
      2.   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this code shall
constitute a separate offense against the city, subject to a fine as provided
in this chapter.
      3.   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected by
committing the defendant to the city jail, where the defendant shall remain
until the defendant's fine and any costs assessed against the defendant are
discharged, either by payment or by confinement in jail, or by working in
accordance with other provisions of this code or state law.
   K.   Community Service: In lieu of fine or imprisonment, or as a condition
of a deferred or suspended fine or sentence, the judge may require the
defendant to perform community service in accordance with rules promulgated by
the judge. (2013 Code)
1-12-15: FAILURE TO APPEAR IN RESPONSE TO SUMMONS:
   A.   Citation Or Summons:
      1.   Any person who has been issued a citation, or issued a summons from
a complaint, or by order of the judicial officer to appear in the municipal
court and the person fails to appear, the judicial officer:
         a.   May issue a warrant for the defendant's arrest; or
         b.   Issue a summons commanding the defendant to appear in lieu of a
warrant. (Ord. 852, 3-12-2001)
      2.   If the judicial officer finds that the person has wilfully failed to
appear in response to said citation, summons or court order, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor incurring a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code. (Ord. 852, 3-12-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Warrant For Arrest:
      1.   If any person fails to appear after the judicial officer has issued
a summons commanding the defendant to appear in lieu of a warrant, a warrant
for the defendant's arrest shall issue. (Ord. 852, 3-12-2001)
      2.   If the judicial officer finds that the person wilfully failed to
appear after the warrant for his/her arrest has been issued for failure to
appear on the summons commanding the defendant appear in lieu of a warrant, the
defendant is guilty of contempt for failure to appear with a fine in an amount
set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division III of this code. (Ord. 852, 3-12-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 13
SENIOR CITIZENS CENTER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Governing Officers
1-13-2: Membership
1-13-3: Election Of Officers
1-13-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of Officers
1-13-5: Meetings
1-13-6: Fees
1-13-1: GOVERNING OFFICERS:
   A.   The city is the owner of certain real property upon which is operated
the Kingfisher Senior Citizens Center. The center may not be used for
commercial purposes, except those commercial purposes which are deemed by the
Kingfisher Senior Citizens Center officers or the board of commissioners to aid
in the enhancement of the health, fitness and education of the community. (Ord.
931, 1-10-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   The city commission is the governing body in all matters of the center,
and has resolved that the Senior Citizens Center shall be operated by the
senior citizens of the city. (2013 Code)
1-13-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The Senior Citizens Center shall be open to all persons regardless of
race, creed, color, sex, or national origin who are at least fifty five (55)
years of age.
   B.   Persons who are at least fifty five (55) years of age and are actual
residents within the county shall be the only persons allowed to vote. (2013
Code)
1-13-3: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Election of the officers shall be held the third Friday of November at
the Senior Citizens Center at the hour of two o'clock (2:00) P.M. New officers
shall begin January 1 of the year following their election.
   B.   There shall be elected from the membership the following officers who
shall serve one year terms:
      1.   A president, who shall be the presiding officer at all meetings,
moderate all committee meetings, and appoint all standing and special
committees.
      2.   A vice president who shall act on behalf of the president in his or
her absence. The vice president shall have the same powers as the president
when acting in his or her behalf.
      3.   A treasurer who shall be the chief financial officer, who shall
collect all revenue and deposit such in the bank account of the Senior Citizens
Center, keeping accurate records of the same; disburse funds only as directed
by proper authority of the center's officers; provide in written form an
accurate financial report at business meetings.
The elected officers may require that the treasurer be bonded. Such bond shall
be at the expense of the Senior Citizens Center.
      4.   A secretary who shall keep accurate and permanent records of all
meetings, regular and special; notify the press and furnish other public
notices of all meetings at least forty eight (48) hours preceding the time set
for meetings.
   C.   Nomination shall be from the floor and election shall be by a vote in
excess of fifty percent (50%). Should there be more than two (2) candidates for
any office and should any one of those candidates fail to receive fifty percent
(50%) of the votes cast, the candidate receiving the least number of votes
shall be dropped and the votes shall be recast until such time as one person
receives at least fifty percent (50%) of the votes cast.
   D.   There shall be no requirements on the length of time a person has been
attending the center activities to be elected to an office. (2013 Code)
1-13-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS:
The elected officers shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   Establish committees as needed.
   B.   Establish hours of operation.
   C.   Coordinate the use of the Senior Citizens Center with other senior
citizens groups and organizations.
   D.   Make recommendations to the city commission concerning any beneficial
changes in the rules and regulations related to the use of the Senior Citizens
Center.
   E.   Conduct general membership monthly meetings on the fourth Friday at two
o'clock (2:00) P.M., January through October. November and December meetings
will be the third Friday.
   F.   The elected officers shall make semiannual reports on the use and
participation of the center to the city commission. All books and records of
the Senior Citizens Center shall be open to the public for inspection.
   G.   The elected officers may grant absences from meetings. If an officer is
absent for more than three (3) consecutive business meetings without being
excused, that officer shall be removed from office. The office shall become
vacant and shall be filled by election. The active officers shall call for an
election to fill such vacancy in the month following the vacancy.
   H.   Supervise and direct the maintenance of the facility. (2013 Code)
1-13-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   The elected officers shall schedule regular business meetings as they
deem necessary.
   B.   An unscheduled meeting of the membership may be called by a majority of
the elected officers, or by ten (10) members of the Senior Citizens Center.
   C.   Notice of unscheduled meetings shall be posted in a conspicuous
location at the center at least three (3) full days, excluding weekends and
holidays, prior to the scheduled time of the meeting.
   D.   All business meetings and elections shall be conducted in accordance
with "Robert's Rules Of Order". (2013 Code)
1-13-6: FEES:
   A.   There shall be no membership fee.
   B.   An activity fee, upon approval by the center's elected officers, may be
allowed to cover costs of the activity. This may include the cost of
specialized or professional services related to the activity, such as ceramics,
quilting, etc. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 14
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-14-1: Definitions
1-14-2: Findings
1-14-3: Process Of Establishing Covered Account
1-14-4: Access To Covered Account Information
1-14-5: Credit Card Payments
1-14-6: Sources And Types Of Red Flags
1-14-7: Prevention And Mitigation Of Identity Theft
1-14-8: Updating Program
1-14-9: Program Administration
1-14-10: Outside Service Providers
1-14-11: Treatment Of Address Discrepancies
1-14-12: Furnishing Address To Consumer Reporting Agency
1-14-13: Methods Of Confirming Consumer Addresses
1-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply 1 :
CITY: The city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
COVERED ACCOUNT: A. An account that a financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that
involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a
credit card account, or utility account, or municipal court imposed fine or
costs; and
   B.   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to
the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity
theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation
risks.
CREDIT: The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
CREDITOR: Any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies.
CUSTOMER: A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information of
another person without authority.
PERSON: A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: A person's credit card account information,
debit card information, bank account information, and driver's license
information, and for a natural person, includes their social security number,
mother's birth name, and date of birth.
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
SERVICE PROVIDER: A person that provides a service directly to the city. (Ord.
923, 4-13-2009)
 
Notes
  1. Other than "city" and "personal identifying information", definitions
1 provided in this section are based on the definitions provided in 16 CFR §
  681.2.
1-14-2: FINDINGS:
   A.   The city is a creditor pursuant to 16 CFR section 681.2, due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   B.   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   C.   The city limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the city's computer system and is
not otherwise recorded.
   D.   The city determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      1.   Use by an applicant of another person's personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account.
      2.   Use of a previous customer's personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer's
name.
      3.   Use of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer's covered account or accounts.
      4.   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer's covered
account of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-3: PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING COVERED ACCOUNT:
   A.   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the city, each
applicant shall provide the city with personal identifying information of the
customer as may be reasonably requested by the employee opening said account.
Such information shall be entered directly into the city's computer system and
shall not otherwise be recorded.
   B.   Each account shall be assigned an account number. The city may utilize
computer software to randomly generate assigned PINs and to encrypt account
numbers and PINs. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-4: ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION:
   A.   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized city personnel.
   B.   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the city manager and the password changed
immediately.
   C.   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the city manager and the city attorney. (Ord. 923, 4-
13-2009)
1-14-5: CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS:
   A.   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   B.   All credit card payments made over the telephone shall be entered
directly into the customer's account information in the computer database.
   C.   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include only
the last four (4) digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-6: SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS:
   A.   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud
detection agencies, or service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      2.   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      3.   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency;
      4.   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         b.   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   B.   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      1.   Documents provided for identification that appears to be altered or
forged;
      2.   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      3.   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      4.   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with readily
accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      5.   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   C.   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
      1.   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         a.   The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
         b.   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the social security administration's death master file.
      2.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the social security number
range and date of birth.
      3.   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
      4.   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address, mail
drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
      5.   The social security number provided is the same as that submitted by
other applicants or customers.
      6.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers.
      7.   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
      8.   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor.
      9.   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   D.   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity include:
      1.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the account.
      2.   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example: The customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
      3.   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      4.   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is used
(taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage
and other relevant factors).
      5.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's account.
      6.   The city is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
      7.   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer's account.
      8.   The city is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   E.   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-7: PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT:
   A.   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
finance director. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the finance
director, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is
necessary. If the finance director, in his or her discretion, determines that
further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the
following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the finance director:
      1.   Contact the customer;
      2.   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer's covered account:
         a.   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes, or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         b.   Close the account;
      3.   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer's account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer's account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      4.   Notify a debt collector within seventy two (72) hours of the
discovery of likely or probable identity theft relating to a customer account
that has been sold to such debt collector in the event that a customer's
account has been sold to a debt collector prior to the discovery of the
likelihood or probability of identity theft relating to such account;
      5.   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer's account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      6.   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
   B.   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her
discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity
theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red
flags to the finance director. If, in his or her discretion, such employee
deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available
to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the
finance director, who may in his or her discretion, determine that no further
action is necessary. If the finance director, in his or her discretion,
determines that further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one
or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the
finance director:
      1.   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      2.   Deny the application for the new account;
      3.   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      4.   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-8: UPDATING PROGRAM:
Upon the recommendation of the city manager, the city council shall annually
review and, as deemed necessary by the council, update the administrative rules
for the identity theft prevention program along with any relevant red flags in
order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness
of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft. In so doing, the city
council shall consider the following factors and exercise its discretion in
amending the program:
   A.   The city's experiences with identity theft;
   B.   Updates in methods of identity theft;
   C.   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
   D.   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains; and
   E.   Updates in service provider arrangements. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-9: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The finance director is responsible for oversight of the program and
for program implementation. The city manager is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the city manager, to address changing identity theft risks and to identify
new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes
to the program shall be submitted to the city council for consideration by the
council.
   B.   The finance director will report to the city manager, at least
annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
      1.   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the city in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      2.   Service provider arrangements;
      3.   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response; and
      4.   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   C.   The finance director is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program. The finance director shall exercise his or her
discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary. (Ord.
923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-10: OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS:
In the event that the city engages a service provider to perform an activity in
connection with one or more covered accounts, the finance director shall
exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider's
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider's activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-11: TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES:
   A.   Pursuant to 16 CFR section 681.1, the purpose of this section is to
establish a process by which the city will be able to form a reasonable belief
that a consumer report relates to the consumer, about whom it has requested a
consumer credit report, when the city has received a notice of address
discrepancy.
   B.   In the event that the city receives a notice of address discrepancy,
the city employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the purpose
of providing the municipal service or account sought by the consumer shall
perform one or more of the following activities, as determined to be
appropriate by such employee:
      1.   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
         a.   Information the city obtains and uses to verify a consumer's
identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer information
program rules implementing 31 USC section 5318(1);
         b.   Information the city maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
         c.   Information the city obtains from third party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant city employee; or
      2.   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-12: FURNISHING ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY:
   A.   In the event that the city reasonably confirms that an address provided
by a consumer to the city is accurate, the city is required to provide such
address to the consumer reporting agency from which the city received a notice
of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer. This information is
required to be provided to the consumer reporting agency when:
      1.   The city is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the city requested the report;
      2.   The city establishes a continuing relation with the consumer; and
      3.   The city regularly and in the ordinary course of business provides
information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received the notice
of address discrepancy.
   B.   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the city to such agency for the
reporting period in which the city establishes a relationship with the
customer. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
1-14-13: METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES:
The city employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her
discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   A.   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   B.   Reviewing the city's records to verify the consumer's address;
   C.   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
   D.   Using other reasonable processes. (Ord. 923, 4-13-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
RULES AND ORGANIZATION FOR CITY BOARDS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Application Of Provisions
2-1-2: Qualifications Of Board Members
2-1-3: Ex Officio Board Members
2-1-4: Term Of Membership
2-1-5: Appointment Of Members
2-1-6: Compensation
2-1-7: Removal Of Members
2-1-8: Quorum
2-1-9: Rules Of Order
2-1-10: Officers
2-1-11: Vacancies
2-1-12: Meetings
2-1-13: Advisory Capacity
2-1-14: Compliance With Open Meeting Act
2-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The rules in this chapter shall apply to boards and committees created in this
title, unless provided otherwise. The board of commissioners for the city is
expressly exempted from these rules. (2013 Code)
2-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS:
All board and committee members must be at least eighteen (18) years of age and
must be residents of the city. (2013 Code)
2-1-3: EX OFFICIO BOARD MEMBERS:
If a board or committee desires to have members thereof which are not citizens
of the city, those members must sit in an ex officio capacity. No more than
twenty five percent (25%) of any board shall consist of ex officio members.
(2013 Code)
2-1-4: TERM OF MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The term of membership on boards and committees created in this title
shall be three (3) years beginning on July 1 and shall be staggered as to make
it so approximately one-third (1/3) of the members' terms expire each year.
Members can be reappointed for as many terms as is deemed appropriate.
   B.   If a new board or committee is created under this title, initial terms
shall be staggered so that approximately one- third (1/3) of the board members'
terms will expire in one year, one-third (1/3) of the board members' terms will
expire in two (2) years and one-third (1/3) of the board members' terms will
expire in three (3) years. (2013 Code)
2-1-5: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
Members of all boards shall be recommended by such board and appointed by the
board of commissioners. (2013 Code)
2-1-6: COMPENSATION:
Members of all boards and committees created in this title shall serve without
compensation. (2013 Code)
2-1-7: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Members of all boards and committees created under this title will serve at the
pleasure of the board of commissioners. Members may be removed at any time,
without cause, by the board of commissioners. (2013 Code)
2-1-8: QUORUM:
Quorum must be met for all meetings. Quorum will consist of two-thirds (2/3) of
all members and at least one-half (1/2) of the voting members. (2013 Code)
2-1-9: RULES OF ORDER:
All boards and committees created under this title shall follow "Robert's Rules
Of Order". (2013 Code)
2-1-10: OFFICERS:
All boards and committees shall select from their members a chairman, vice
chairman and secretary. Other officers may be created by the board or committee
as needed. (2013 Code)
2-1-11: VACANCIES:
When vacancies on any board or committee occur for any reason other than the
expiration of a member's term, the remainder of the term shall be filled upon
the recommendation of the chairman of said board or committee and the approval
of the board of city commissioners. (2013 Code)
2-1-12: MEETINGS:
All boards or committees created under this title shall meet at least
quarterly. (2013 Code)
2-1-13: ADVISORY CAPACITY:
All boards and committees created under this title shall serve in an advisory
capacity only. (2013 Code)
2-1-14: COMPLIANCE WITH OPEN MEETING ACT:
All boards and committees created under this title shall comply with all rules
relating to the open meeting act 1 . (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 25 OS § 301 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created; Appointment; Terms
2-2-2: Quorum; Voting
2-2-3: Organization And Rules
2-2-4: Power To Employ Staff
2-2-5: Powers And Duties
2-2-6: Purposes Of Plan
2-2-7: Subdivision Of Land
2-2-8: Powers As Zoning Commission
2-2-9: Uniformity Of Regulations
2-2-10: Comprehensive Plan, Purposes And Considerations
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
   A.   Membership; Appointment: There is hereby created a planning and zoning
commission of the city. Said commission shall be composed of seven (7)
appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the city nominated by the
mayor and appointed by the city commission. The city manager and city engineer
shall be ex officio members of the commission without vote.
   B.   Terms: Each appointed member shall hold office for a term of three (3)
years.
   C.   Qualifications; Compensation; Removals And Vacancies: The appointed
members of said commission shall be nominated and appointed solely with
reference to their fitness and without reference to party affiliation, and
shall serve without compensation. Members may be removed by the mayor with
approval of the city commission, but only for the good of service. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled only
for the unexpired term. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-2: QUORUM; VOTING:
Four (4) members of the planning and zoning commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. No action shall be taken which is
binding upon said planning and zoning commission unless concurred in by not
less than a majority of the authorized membership of the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   Officers: The commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice
chairperson. The city clerk shall serve as secretary. The planning and zoning
commission may create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary. The
terms of the chairperson and vice chairperson shall be one year, with
eligibility for reelection.
   B.   Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting each month, unless the commission or its chairperson dispenses
with one or more regular meetings for cause. The chairperson or any four (4)
members may call special meetings of the commission.
   C.   Rules; Record Of Regulations And Transactions: The planning and zoning
commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business, and shall keep a
record of its regulations, transactions, findings, and determinations, which
record shall be a public record. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-4: POWER TO EMPLOY STAFF:
The planning and zoning commission shall have the power to recommend to employ
planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other help deemed necessary within
the limits of the appropriation fixed by the city commissioner. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011)
2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Preparation: The planning and zoning commission
shall have the power and the duty to prepare and recommend to the city
commission for adoption a comprehensive plan for the physical development of
the city. In conducting its work, the planning and zoning commission may
consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development and
betterment of the municipality, and may make recommendations as it may deem
advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the city commission.
   B.   Surveys, Studies, Maps: The planning and zoning commission may make or
cause to be made surveys, studies, maps, and plans in the conduct of its
activities.
   C.   Investigation And Reports: Before final action is taken by the city
commission on the location or design of any public building, statue, memorial,
park, boulevard, street, or alley, playground, public grounds, bridge, or
change in any location of any street or alley, such question shall be submitted
to the planning and zoning commission for investigation and report.
   D.   Adoption Of Parts Of Plan: In the preparation of the comprehensive
plan, the planning and zoning commission may from time to time prepare and
recommend to the city commission for adoption a part or parts thereof, which
parts shall cover one or more major geographical divisions of the city or one
or more major elements of the comprehensive plan. The planning and zoning
commission may from time to time recommend extending, amending, or changing any
portion of the comprehensive plan.
   E.   Other Powers: The planning and zoning commission shall also have all
other powers conferred upon a city planning commission by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 45-101 through 45-106. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-6: PURPOSES OF PLAN:
In the preparation of such plan, the planning and zoning commission shall make
careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future
growth of the city, with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory.
The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the city and its environs
which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best promote health,
safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare, as well as
efficiency and economy in the process of development; including, among other
things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire, and
other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, and wise and efficient expenditure of public funds. (Ord. 939,
11-14-2011)
2-2-7: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Preparation And Recommendation: The planning and zoning commission may
prepare and recommend to the city commission for adoption rules and regulations
governing the subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Submission Of Plans, Plats Or Replats; Ensure Compliance: All plans,
plats, or replats of land laid out in two (2) or more lots, plats, parcels,
streets, alleys, or other ways intended to be dedicated to public use within
the corporate limits of the city shall first be submitted to the planning and
zoning commission for its recommendations. The planning and zoning commission
shall, with the help of appropriate municipal officials, check the proposed
dedications or subdivisions of land to ensure compliance with the rules and
regulations governing subdivisions of land and with other elements of the
comprehensive plan for the city.
   C.   Disapproval: The disapproval of any such plan, plat, or replat by the
city commission shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown thereon. No
plat or replat of subdivision of land, or dedication of street or alley or
other easement shall be entitled to record unless it bears the signature of the
mayor, attested by the city clerk, certifying the approval and acceptance
thereof by the city commission. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-8: POWERS AS ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning and zoning commission shall have the power to prepare and to
recommend to the city commission for adoption a zoning ordinance to regulate
and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards,
courts, and other open spaces, the density of population, the location and use
of buildings, structures, arid land for trade, industry, residences, and other
purposes. The planning and zoning commission shall also have all other powers
conferred upon zoning commissions by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-101
through 43-115 and other state law, as amended. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-9: UNIFORMITY OF REGULATIONS:
The planning and zoning commission may recommend the division of the
municipality into districts of such number, size, and area as may be deemed
best suited to carry out the zoning ordinance. All such regulations shall be
uniform for each class or kind of buildings throughout each district, but the
regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
2-2-10: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, PURPOSES AND CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Purposes: Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a
comprehensive plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure
safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general
welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate adequate
provisions of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public
requirements.
   B.   Considerations: Such regulations shall be made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, as to the character of the district and its
peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the
value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the city. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Established; Appointment; Terms; Vacancies
2-3-2: Organization And Procedures
2-3-3: Appeals To Board
2-3-4: Public Hearing Required
2-3-5: Fee
2-3-6: Powers
2-3-7: Quorum; Voting
2-3-8: Appeal To District Court
2-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Membership; Term; Removals; Vacancies: There is hereby created a zoning
board of adjustment consisting of five (5) members, each to be appointed for a
term of three (3) years and removable for cause by the city commission upon
written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
   B.   Continuance Of Existing Board: It is specifically provided, however,
that on the effective date hereof, such board of adjustment as was legally in
existence immediately prior to such date shall be constituted as the board of
adjustment hereby created, and the terms of the then members of said board
shall expire three (3) years after the appointment to their current term, or
until their successors are duly appointed and qualified.
   C.   Appointment: Said board of adjustment shall be appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the city commission. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Chairperson: The zoning board of adjustment shall elect one of its
members as chairperson.
   B.   Rules: The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Meetings; Actions:
      1.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairperson
and at such other times as the board may determine.
      2.   The chairperson, or, in his/her absence, the acting chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
      3.   The board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
board and shall be a public record.
      4.   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. (Ord. 939,
11-14-2011)
2-3-3: APPEALS TO BOARD:
Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer of the city affected by any administrative decision based on the
zoning ordinance. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days of such
decision by filing with the city clerk and the board of adjustment a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The city clerk shall forthwith transmit
to the board all the papers constituting the record of the action from which
the appeal is taken. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-3-4: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
   A.   Fix Time For Hearing; Notice: The zoning board of adjustment shall fix
a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to
it, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Any party may appear
and be heard in person or by agent or by attorney at said hearing.
   B.   Notice Requirements: Notice of public hearing before the board of
adjustment shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city and by mailing written notice by the clerk of the board to all
owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior
boundary of the subject property. Said notice shall contain:
      1.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the city;
      2.   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
variance or exception requested; and
      3.   Date, time and place of hearing.
   C.   Published And Mailed Notice: A copy of the published notice may be
mailed in lieu of written notice; however, the notice by publication and
written notice shall be published and mailed at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-3-5: FEE:
The board of city commissioners, upon the recommendation of the board of
adjustment, shall establish a fee in such amount as provided in the fines and
fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code for the hearing of
appeals, which shall be sufficient to defray the cost of publishing the notice
of public hearing and any other costs associated with the hearing. The
appellant shall pay such fee upon filing the appeal. (Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
2-3-6: POWERS:
The zoning board of adjustment shall have the following powers:
   A.   Administrative Review: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the zoning administrator, building inspector, or other administrative officer
in the enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Granting Variances: To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such
variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance as will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of the zoning ordinance will, in any individual case, result in
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the zoning ordinance shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such
variances may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a
finding by the board of adjustment that:
      1.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the
particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or
topography.
      2.   The application of the zoning ordinance to this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship, not self-imposed by the owner or
developer.
      3.   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of
property involved.
      4.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning ordinance or the
comprehensive plan; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a
use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-3-7: QUORUM; VOTING:
In exercising the powers stated in section
2-3-6 of this chapter, the board of adjustment shall have the concurring vote
of at least three (3) of its members in order that it may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the administrative
officer for directing the issuance of a permit. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
2-3-8: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment
or order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons,
jointly or severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or
bureau of the city to the district court by filing a notice of appeal with the
city clerk and with the board of adjustment within sixty (60) days from the
filing of the decision of the board, which notice shall specify the grounds of
such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the said
board shall transmit forthwith to the court clerk of Kingfisher County the
original or certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the
case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the board.
   B.   Appeal Stays Proceedings: An appeal to the district court from the
board of adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the chairperson of the board of adjustment or the administrative
office from which the appeal is taken certifies to the court clerk, after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed, that, by reason of the facts stated in
the certificate, a stay, in his opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the district court upon application
or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of the zoning ordinance; and upon notice to the
chairperson of the board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken, and,
upon due cause being shown, the court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the decision brought up for review. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 4
LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Library
2-4-2: Board Established; Statutes Adopted
2-4-3: Residency
2-4-1: LIBRARY:
There is hereby created a public library for the use and benefit of the
citizens of the city, and vicinity. (2013 Code)
2-4-2: BOARD ESTABLISHED; STATUTES ADOPTED:
The provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 31-101 et seq., as amended every
ten (10) years, are hereby adopted by reference, including the definition of
said statutes, and incorporated in the laws of the city as if set out at length
herein for the purpose of establishing and operating a municipal library,
consisting of five (5) to nine (9) members. (2013 Code)
2-4-3: RESIDENCY:
All members of the city memorial library board of directors shall be residents
of the city. (Ord. 871, 10-8-2001)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS, RECREATION AND BEAUTIFICATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Created; Purpose
2-5-2: Appointment; Qualifications
2-5-3: Meetings
2-5-4: Powers And Duties
2-5-5: Capital Project Fund
2-5-1: BOARD CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created an advisory board known as the "Kingfisher Parks,
Recreation And Beautification Board" for the purpose of promoting the
establishment, operation, support and plan of providing a comprehensive program
for the city recreation facilities, related issues and for the welfare and
benefit of the citizens of the city. (Ord. 883, 3-10-2003; amd. 2013 Code)
2-5-2: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The board shall be comprised of five (5) members, all of whom shall be citizens
of the city, appointed by a majority of the city commission. (Ord. 883, 3-10-
2003; amd. 2013 Code)
2-5-3: MEETINGS:
The board shall hold at least one regular meeting each quarter and may hold
additional meetings as it considers necessary. (Ord. 883, 3-10-2003; amd. 2013
Code)
2-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Program For Recreation Facilities: The board shall investigate and
pursue any matter for developing, operating, planning and providing a
comprehensive program for the city recreation facilities.
   B.   Planning And Recommendations: The board shall engage in short term and
long range planning and shall make recommendations to the city manager and the
city commission regarding such facilities.
   C.   Advisory Capacity Only: The board shall not have the authority to
appropriate funds or enter into any activity concerning personnel of the city
nor its trusts but shall be advisory only. (Ord. 883, 3-10-2003; amd. 2013
Code)
2-5-5: CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
The board may solicit donations and grants, and raise revenues from any source.
All monies shall be used for the purpose of the city recreational facilities.
The funds shall be maintained in a special project account with the city. Said
funds cannot be diverted to any other purpose. (Ord. 883, 3-10-2003; amd. 2013
Code)
CHAPTER 6
ARTS BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Board Established
2-6-2: Statement Of Purpose
2-6-3: Membership; Meetings
2-6-4: Duties And Responsibilities
2-6-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Kingfisher arts board which shall serve in an
official advisory role to the board of commissioners on all matters related to
the arts, which will promote, coordinate and strengthen public programs to
further cultural development of the city. (Ord. 912, 4-9-2007)
2-6-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Kingfisher arts board shall be as follows:
   A.   To advise the city commission on ways in which the city might best
serve the public with regard to matters involving the arts.
   B.   To encourage and aid in the appreciation and awareness of, and
participation in, the arts among all Kingfisher area residents.
   C.   To encourage cooperation and coordination among individuals,
organizations, and institutions concerned with the arts in the Kingfisher area.
   D.   To promote employment opportunities for artists. (Ord. 912, 4-9-2007)
2-6-3: MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS:
   A.   Membership: The board shall consist of nine (9) persons to be appointed
by the city commission. No organization which is a potential recipient of city
arts funding shall have on the board more than one person who serves on its
board of directors or staff. Every effort shall be made to have a broad and
diverse representation of the fine and performing arts community and of local
arts and cultural organizations on the commission.
   B.   Meetings: The board shall meet quarterly or as often as required to
fulfill its responsibilities. Majority shall come from those in attendance.
(Ord. 912, 4-9-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
2-6-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The board shall advise and assist the city commission with respect to
developing, coordinating and promoting the arts for the enjoyment, education,
cultural enrichment and benefit of the residents of the Kingfisher area. In
furtherance of these duties, the board shall attempt to accomplish the
following:
   A.   Develop in cooperation with other city departments a long range master
plan for the development of a thriving arts community in the Kingfisher area
and the utilization of public facilities for art related activities. Such
master plan shall be updated every two (2) years.
   B.   Initiate, sponsor, conduct or support, alone or in cooperation with
other public or private agencies, public programs in the arts.
   C.   Serve as a clearinghouse for information about Kingfisher area artists,
art programs, facilities, organizations and institutions and to actively
encourage public awareness, utilization, and support of such resources.
   D.   Advise the city as to the adequacy of facilities and space for the
presentation of cultural activities.
   E.   Review and advise on the aesthetic aspects of all works of art or
designs or public monuments accepted or commissioned by the city.
   F.   Prepare and submit budgetary recommendations to the city manager for
annual expenditures necessary for the continuation and development of public
programs and facilities which further the arts.
   G.   Review funding requests and recommend to the city commission the
allocation of monies to cultural and art organizations.
   H.   Seek out and encourage contributions and grants to the arts from
private and public sources.
   I.   Initiate proposals for federal and state assistance to the arts and to
review arts related proposals and programs originated by the city and approved
by the city manager.
   J.   Keep abreast of what other communities are doing to further the arts
and to adapt their accomplishments to the needs of the Kingfisher area. (Ord.
912, 4-9-2007)
CHAPTER 7
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-7-1: Purpose And Goals
2-7-2: Membership
2-7-3: Meetings
2-7-1: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the tree board is to study and advise the city
government and its employees on the establishment of policies, regulations, and
standards necessary to ensure that the city will continue to realize the
benefits of its urban forest.
   B.   Goals: Goals of the tree board are as follows:
      1.   Study and recommend plans leading to appropriate sustainable tree
cover on public and private lands in the city.
      2.   Study and recommend practices to maintain city trees in a healthy
and nonhazardous condition through good arboricultural practices.
      3.   Study and recommend an appropriate diversity in tree species and age
classes to provide a stable sustainable urban forest. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003;
amd. 2013 Code)
2-7-2: MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created and established an advisory tree board for the city
which shall consist of five (5) members. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003; amd. 2013 Code)
2-7-3: MEETINGS:
The board shall hold at least one regular meeting each quarter and may hold
additional meetings as it considers necessary. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003; amd. 2013
Code)
TITLE 3
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
3-1-1: Competitive Bidding; Spending Limitation
3-1-2: Capital Improvement Funds; Expenditures For Certain Purposes
3-1-3: Sale Of Real Or Personal Property
3-1-4: Record Search And Copying Fees
3-1-5: County Military Service Memorial Perpetual Trust Fund
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter article V.
3-1-1: COMPETITIVE BIDDING; SPENDING LIMITATION:
   A.   Public Construction Contracts:
      1.   Definitions: All terms shall have the same meanings given those
terms in the Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974, 61 OS § 101 et seq., as
amended (hereinafter "Competitive Bidding Act"), except where modified or
limited by subsequent subsections of this section.
      2.   As required by Section 5.2 of the Charter of the City of Kingfisher,
Oklahoma (Charter), the city follows the Competitive Bidding Act for all public
construction contracts, unless a provision of the Competitive Bidding Act is in
conflict the Charter. In the event of a conflict, the provisions of the Charter
shall supersede the Competitive Bidding Act as may be allowed by law.
      3.   Construction contracts equal to or greater than twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00), but not subject to the provisions of the Competitive
Bidding Act shall require approval of the board of commissioners. Construction
contracts of an amount less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may
be approved by the city manager.
   B.   The city will follow all state laws regarding purchasing, procurement,
retaining services, except where the Charter preempts state law; however, the
board of commissioners, or their designee, may purchase or authorize the
purchase of the following without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding:
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services of a
nonprofessional nature, the cost of which does not exceed twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) in a single transaction;
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which has a uniform price wherever
bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services which have
already been competitively bid by the state and have received an approved state
bid price, so long as the purchase amount is less than or equal to the state
bid price;
      4.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers (including war surplus);
      5.   Emergency purchases of supplies, materials, equipment, or
contractual services for the preservation of public health, safety, and welfare
as may be declared and approved by the board of commissioners;
      6.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, etc.)
purchased from a public utility corporation, commission or other government
authority; or
      7.   Contractual services of a professional nature such as engineering,
legal, architectural and medical services, subject to other policies adopted by
the city commission governing such procurement.
   C.   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 10-116, the Board of Commissioners
establishes spending authority for the City Manager in amounts not exceeding
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), and not inconsistent with the
remainder of this Section. Further, the City Manager may, in their discretion,
authorize department heads to have spending authority in amounts not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and not inconsistent with the remainder of
this Section. (Ord. 903, 6-6-2006; amd. Ord. 917, 5-12-2008; Ord. 949, 9-9-
2013; 2013 Code; Ord. 2019-013, 8-12-2019; Ord. 2025-002, 1-13-2025)
3-1-2: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUNDS; EXPENDITURES FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES:
From and after the effective date hereof, there are hereby created capital
improvement funds for capital improvements including new or replacement
improvements such as roads, streets, drainage improvements, water and sewer
improvements, machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures, real property,
buildings, appurtenances, rights of way, engineering, architectural or legal
fees, and all costs and expenses related thereto. The capital improvement funds
hereby created are as follows: (Ord. 891, 5-10-2004; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   Kingfisher General Capital Improvement Fund: This capital improvement
fund shall consist of all monies made available to the fund by action of the
city commission, including, but not limited to: appropriations, transfers,
gifts, donations, grants and apportionment of revenues. (Ord. 891, 5-10-2004)
   B.   Kingfisher Public Works Authority Capital Improvement Fund: This
capital improvement fund shall consist of all monies made available to the fund
by action of the governing boards of either the Kingfisher city commission or
Kingfisher public works authority, including, but not limited to:
appropriations, transfers, gifts, donations, grants and apportionment of
revenues. (Ord. 893, 5-28-2004; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Kingfisher Recreation Authority Capital Improvement Fund: This capital
improvement fund shall consist of all monies made available to the fund by
action of the governing boards of either the Kingfisher city commission or
Kingfisher recreation authority, including, but not limited to: appropriations,
transfers, gifts, donations, grants and apportionment of revenues. (Ord. 894,
5-28-2004; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-3: SALE OF REAL OR PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Maximum Amount Of Sale: Any sale of real or personal property by the
city for an amount that exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) may only be
done by authority of a special ordinance other than an emergency ordinance.
   B.   Requirement Of Special Ordinance:
      1.   Said special ordinance shall be published in full in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city within ten (10) days after its passage, and
shall include a section reading substantially as follows:
This ordinance shall be referred to a vote of the electors of the city of
Kingfisher if a proper referendum petition is properly filed within thirty (30)
days after its passage; otherwise, it shall go into effect thirty (30) days
after its passage.
      2.   This special ordinance language and notice procedure is intended as
an exception to, and not a replacement for, ordinance language requirements and
notice procedure contained elsewhere in the city charter. (Ord. 911, 4-9-2007;
amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-4: RECORD SEARCH AND COPYING FEES:
   A.   Statute Adopted:
      1.   The city hereby adopts the provisions of 51 Oklahoma Statutes
section 24A.5 concerning the costs of photocopying, records and record search
fees as more specifically set out in said statute.
      2.   Other provisions of 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 24A.5 are hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference. (Ord. 807, 2-21-1995)
   B.   Charge For Copies: The basic charge for copies shall be determined by
the board of commissioners and shall be set out in the fines and fees schedule
in appendix A, division IV of this code; provided, that if the city determines
that said request for copies is related solely to a commercial purpose or
clearly would cause excessive disruption of the city's essential function, then
the city may charge a reasonable fee to recover the direct costs of document
search. Further, any charges hereunder shall be prepaid by the requesting
party. (Ord. 807, 2-21-1995; amd. 2013 Code)
3-1-5: COUNTY MILITARY SERVICE MEMORIAL PERPETUAL TRUST FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: The Kingfisher County military service memorial
perpetual trust fund (hereinafter "trust fund") is hereby created as a separate
and distinct financial account for the purpose of receiving any funds
transferred to the city by the board of commissioners of Kingfisher County from
the designated sales tax fund for the construction and maintenance of the
Kingfisher County military service memorial (hereinafter "memorial"). Said
funds shall be invested by the treasurer of the city in a secure, interest
bearing account.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the trust fund is to fund the ongoing
maintenance, improvement and/or expansion of the memorial under the terms of
the trust adopted in this section. If at any point the trust fund shall cease
to be utilized for the specific purposes stated herein, the remainder of any
monies transferred from the county of Kingfisher pursuant to subsection A of
this section, together with any interest earned, shall be returned to the
county of Kingfisher.
   C.   Additional Contributions: Any private donations received for the
purpose of ongoing maintenance, improvement and/or expansion of the memorial
shall be deposited in the trust fund and maintained pursuant to the terms of
the trust adopted herein.
   D.   Trust Fund Advisory Board:
      1.   Appointment Of Trustees: The mayor and board of commissioners of the
city shall serve as the board of trustees for the trust fund and shall consider
and act on matters related to the trust during regular meetings of the city or
during any special meetings scheduled for such purpose. The board of trustees
shall appoint an advisory board, consisting of three (3) members of the Keith
Lowry-Henry Ellyson American Legion Post 5 and/or the American Legion Post 114,
Hennessey, Oklahoma, as recommended by the Post 5 commander. If at any point
the American Legion Post 5 and American Legion Post 114 should cease to exist,
the board of trustees shall appoint members to the advisory board at its own
discretion, with preference given to military service veterans, when possible.
      2.   Duties: The advisory board shall collect qualified names for
periodic addition to the memorial's roster of honor and may recommend
improvements, maintenance, repair or expansion of the memorial to the board of
trustees, which shall retain sole and exclusive authority to approve any
expenditures from the trust fund. The advisory board also shall have such other
duties as may be approved by the board of trustees.
      3.   Authorized Expenditures: Through the regular budgetary appropriation
and expenditure process of the city, the board of trustees is authorized to
expend as much of the annual income of the trust fund as is required for
maintenance, expansion and/or improvement of the memorial. Maintenance,
expansion and/or improvements may include, but are not limited to, the annual
addition of names of Kingfisher County military service men and women to the
roster of honor by etching them into the existing granite panels of the
memorial, replacing flags, lights, stones or plaques, and repairing or
replacing sidewalks. If, in any given year, extraordinary expenses are incurred
which exceed the income of the trust fund, the board of trustees has the
discretion to invade the corpus of said trust fund for the purpose of
satisfying the extraordinary expense.
   E.   Roster Of Honor:
      1.   Addition Of Names: Additional names of Kingfisher County military
service men and women qualified to be added to the memorial's roster of honor
shall be collected by the advisory board each year, with March 15 marking the
end of the annual collection period. Names collected will be reviewed for
qualification by the advisory board and submitted in written form to the board
of trustees for approval no later than the board of commissioners for the
city's first regularly scheduled meeting in April.
      2.   Criteria For Inclusion: The names of the following individuals are
eligible for inclusion on the roster of honor etched into the granite panels of
the memorial:
         a.   Deceased veterans buried in Kingfisher County whose immediate
family member(s) are current Kingfisher County residents.
         b.   Any individual who was a citizen of Kingfisher County at the time
he or she entered military service, regardless of current residence, provided
proof of military service is provided. Acceptable proof includes current
enlistment with honorable service, DD214 or similar service document and
honorable discharge. Dishonorable discharge for desertion, absent without
leave, treason or felony violation of the uniform code of military justice or
felony violation of civilian law while a service member disqualifies the
individual for inclusion.
         c.   All members of Kingfisher American Legion Post 5 and Hennessey
Post 114 of at least two (2) years in good standing or as determined by the
individual posts.
         d.   The term "military service" refers to service at any time
following the year 1900 in the United States military services, including the
army, navy, marine corps, air force, coast guard or the merchant marine during
wartime service which qualifies for veteran status, and any other service in an
organization which has been designated a "military service" by the congress of
the United States. The national guard and reserve components of the armed
services also are included. Wartime service is not specifically required for
inclusion.
   F.   Etching Of Approved Names:
      1.   If sufficient funds are available from either the income or that
portion of the corpus of the trust fund which is within the discretionary
authority of the board of trustees, the city shall have the approved names
etched into the existing granite panels of the memorial, following its normal
contracting procedures. The year of each engraving shall be etched into the
granite panel, followed by the list of names approved to be added in that year,
etched in alphabetical sequence. Etched listings shall include first and last
names only and titles, ranks, branches of service or any other information
shall not be included. As far as possible, such additional etchings shall be
scheduled so as to be completed by Memorial Day of any given year.
      2.   If, in any given year, sufficient funds are not available from
either the income or that portion of the principal of the trust fund which is
within the discretionary authority of the board of trustees, or the board of
trustees decides at its discretion to delay the etching of additional names
into the existing granite panels, any qualified names so approved may be
carried over and added to names etched in subsequent years.
   G.   Closing Of Roster Of Honor: At such time as the capacity of the
existing granite panels has been reached and further expansion of the memorial
is impractical, or at the recommendation of the advisory board for any other
reason, the board of trustees may by resolution declare the roster of honor
permanently closed, so that no additional names shall be added. (Ord. 921, 1-
12-2009)
CHAPTER 2
BUDGETARY POLICY; FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
3-2-1: Types Of Budgets
3-2-2: Legal Requirements
3-2-3: Basis Of Accounting
3-2-4: Levels Of Budgetary Control
3-2-5: Amendment Responsibilities
3-2-6: Fund Balance Reserves
3-2-7: Balancing Policy
3-2-8: Use Of Fund Balance Reserves
3-2-9: Annual Report
3-2-10: Annual Budget Messages
3-2-11: Annual Evaluation
3-2-12: New Initiatives; Fiscal Note
3-2-13: Formal Budget Calendar
3-2-1: TYPES OF BUDGETS:
The city policy is to develop two (2) types of budgets:
   A.   Annual Fiscal Year Budget: Fiscal year budget of all funds organized
into the following categories:
      1.   Operating Funds:
         a.   General fund.
         b.   Kingfisher public works authority.
         c.   Kingfisher recreational authority.
         d.   Kingfisher special projects authority.
      2.   Restricted Funds:
         a.   Self-insurance fund.
         b.   Airport fund.
         c.   Flood control fund.
         d.   Street and alley fund.
         e.   Overstreet memorial fund.
         f.   Cemetery care fund.
         g.   Sick leave buy back fund.
         h.   Hotel/motel tax fund. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
         i.   Library endowment fund.
         j.   Military memorial fund. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   Capital Funds:
         a.   City capital fund.
         b.   KPWA capital fund.
         c.   KREC capital fund.
   B.   Long Term Capital Budget: A continuous five (5) year plan of capital
asset and infrastructure needs including new capital assets and replacement of
existing assets. This budget/plan is used as a tool in developing the capital
fund budgets within the annual fiscal year budget. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-2: LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
Budgetary legal requirements shall be defined as follows:
   A.   City Funds: The budget process for all city funds (excluding those of
the public trust authorities) is governed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 17-
101 through 17-216. As such, the city will comply with all legal deadlines,
public hearing and budget content requirements of the law.
   B.   Public Trust Authorities: The budgets for the public trust authorities
are governed by 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-3: BASIS OF ACCOUNTING:
The budgetary basis of accounting shall be defined as follows:
   A.   The basis of accounting used for budget monitoring depends on the type
of fund budgeted.
   B.   Governmental funds (such as the general fund) shall account for
revenues on the budgetary basis when received in cash and charges to
appropriations will be recorded when the encumbrance or commitment is created.
   C.   Proprietary funds (such as the KPWA and KREC) shall account for revenue
when billed and charges to expenditure budgets will be recorded when the
encumbrance or commitment is created. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
   D.   Fiduciary funds are not budgeted because, by their nature, they do not
represent city spendable resources. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004; amd. 2013 Code)
   E.   In accordance with state law, encumbered appropriations may remain open
to pay proper claims against said appropriations until September 30 of the
following fiscal year. All unencumbered appropriations remaining at year end
are considered lapsed, and no new encumbrances or obligations may be created
subsequent to year end against these lapsed appropriations. (Ord. 896, 11-8-
2004)
3-2-4: LEVELS OF BUDGETARY CONTROL:
The legal level of budgetary control shall be defined as follows:
   A.   City Funds: The expenditure budget for city funds (excluding public
trust authorities) shall constitute legal appropriations or spending limits in
accordance with applicable state law. The legal level of control (level at
which charges to appropriations may not legally exceed appropriations) is the
department level within a fund.
   B.   Public Trust Authorities: The expenditure budget for public trust
authorities shall constitute a financial plan and shall not be considered legal
appropriations. Charges to these expenditure accounts will be monitored for
financial planning purposes, not for legal compliance purposes. (Ord. 896, 11-
8-2004)
3-2-5: AMENDMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
Budget amendment responsibilities shall be defined as follows:
   A.   Transfers: Transfers of appropriations or expenditure budgets between
object categories and accounts within a department of a fund may be made by the
city manager without city commission approval. Any transfers of appropriations
or expenditure budgets between departments within a fund will require city
commission approval.
   B.   Supplemental Appropriations And Decreases: All supplemental
appropriations and fund decreases in appropriations shall require approval of
both the city manager and city commission.
   C.   Formal Record: A formal record of budget amendments should be
maintained in the records of the city clerk and incorporated within the
accounting records by city accounting staff. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-6: FUND BALANCE RESERVES:
Desired levels of budgetary fund balance reserves shall be established and
defined as follows:
   A.   Definition: In an effort to provide fiscal stability for the city and
allow city management to apply fiscal prudence in managing the budgetary
condition of the city and its public trusts, desired fund balance reserve
levels are established. "Fund balance reserves" are defined as the amount of
fund balance available for appropriation at any point in time.
   B.   Operating Funds Group: The desired level of reserves for the operating
funds group, considered in aggregate, shall be sixty percent (60%) of the
annual fund revenue accruing to the fund group.
   C.   Capital Funds: The desired level of reserves for capital funds will be
based on an estimated average annual capital budget as evidenced by the long
term capital plan as discussed in this chapter.
   D.   Adding To Reserves: In fiscal years when these desired reserves are not
already in existence, city management and the city commission will add to the
reserves when possible to attain the desired levels.
   E.   Monthly Report: On a monthly basis, the city treasurer will report the
budget status of the operating and capital funds to the city commission and
will make an express statement as to the status of the unappropriated fund
balance on hand at month end. The city will also engage the external financial
statement auditor to make an express statement as to the city's compliance with
this budget policy, including the level of budgetary reserves. (Ord. 896, 11-8-
2004)
3-2-7: BALANCING POLICY:
A budget balancing policy shall be established as follows:
   A.   Appropriation Limitation: It is the city's policy to appropriate no
more than the current year estimated revenues, including interfund transfers,
for each fund, in the original budget for a given fiscal year. Compliance or
departure from this policy shall be duly noted in the budget message submitted
by the city manager for the following fiscal year, including an explanation as
to the basis for any departure, making reference to the applicable criteria
outlined in section
3-2-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Supplemental Appropriations: During the fiscal year, after adoption of
the original approved budget, any supplemental appropriations of available fund
balance must be approved by the city commission who shall consider the basis
for the proposed use of reserves as well as the adequacy of the remaining
unappropriated fund balance. Actual approval of any supplemental appropriations
of available fund balance shall be duly noted in the minutes, including a
reference to the basis or justification for same, as outlined in section
3-2-8 of this chapter.
   C.   Interfund Transfers: In the process of balancing the budget, interfund
transfers from the KPWA to the general fund will be limited to no more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the annual estimated gross revenue for the KPWA
for the budget year. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-8: USE OF FUND BALANCE RESERVES:
Criteria for use of fund balance reserves shall be established as follows:
   A.   Ensure Fiscal Solvency: A central goal of this budget policy is to
bring about the development and preservation of adequate fund balance reserves
to ensure fiscal solvency of the city over the long run, as a safeguard against
economic downturns, natural disasters or other catastrophic circumstances,
significant budgeting or accounting errors, or possibly even adverse liability
claims or legal judgments.
   B.   Avoid Financing Of New Spending Initiatives: Caution must be exercised
whenever considering budgeting reserve funds, even when actual reserve fund
levels exceed desired levels, since they represent onetime monies. For example,
as a general rule, municipalities should avoid using reserve funds to finance
new spending initiatives, lest they find themselves unable to satisfy the new,
recurring expenses.
   C.   Criteria Outlining Acceptable Uses: This said, there are circumstances
when it is acceptable and/or necessary to budget the use of fund balance
reserves even though reserve amounts on hand already fall shy of desired
levels. Municipalities will benefit, however, from adopting, in advance,
written, objective criteria outlining acceptable uses of fund balance reserves,
to serve as a guide for administrators and managers in their budgeting
practices.
   D.   Acceptable Appropriations: Acceptable/permitted appropriations of fund
balance reserves might include:
      1.   Emergency expenditures for life, health, or public safety issues for
which no existing appropriation exists;
      2.   Situations where the expenditure will yield recurring savings which
offset the expense within five (5) years;
      3.   Situations where the expenditure will yield a recurring stream of
additional or new revenues which offset the expense within five (5) years;
      4.   The expenditure of restricted resources temporarily held within fund
balance reserves, pending disbursement, in accordance with restrictions imposed
by the donor or granting entity;
      5.   Correcting results of an erroneous posting or transaction;
      6.   Situations where fund balance reserves exceed desired levels and the
proposed use is of a nonoperational nature involving capital or equipment
purchases having a useful life of greater than five (5) years;
      7.   Situations where fund balance reserves exceed desired levels and the
proposed use is of a nonrecurring nature, such as a study, or for startup costs
of a program whose ongoing costs are otherwise funded;
      8.   Situations where an unexpected expense arises that could not have
reasonably been foreseen, for which new revenue funded appropriations are not
available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered feasible
or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels throughout the city;
      9.   Situations where an unexpected revenue decline arises that could not
have reasonably been foreseen, for which new revenue funded appropriations are
not available and transfers of existing appropriations are not considered
feasible or appropriate in maintaining existing service levels throughout the
city;
      10.   To create a new fund for a dedicated purpose; or
      11.   To satisfy a judgment from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   Prohibited Supplemental Appropriation: Under no circumstances should a
supplemental appropriation of fund balance reserves be made for an expenditure
likely to recur on a multiple year or annual basis. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-9: ANNUAL REPORT:
An annual report shall be given on the status and use of fund balances as
follows:
Within sixty (60) days of the close of a given fiscal year, the city treasurer
shall produce a report for the city commission displaying the status of the
budgetary fund balances of the city's operating funds, by fiscal year, through
the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year, with a summary explanation of
any significant factors which resulted in negative variances from corresponding
fund balance ratios for the preceding fiscal year. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004; amd.
2013 Code)
3-2-10: ANNUAL BUDGET MESSAGES:
   A.   Content: The annual budget messages of the city manager shall include
certain content, as outlined in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additional Requirements: In addition to the requirements stated in this
chapter regarding budgeting of fund balance reserves, the city manager's annual
budget message shall include at a minimum:
      1.   An explanation of the underlying assumptions on which key revenue
source estimates were based, as well as the presence of any significant onetime
revenue sources;
      2.   An explicit statement explaining any changes in tax structure, rate,
or fees proposed as a part of the proposed budget;
      3.   A listing of new operations spending initiatives financed in the
proposed budget, including, where applicable, the size of any subsequent out
year cost increases expected;
      4.   A listing of any significant capital expenditures proposed; and
      5.   Where applicable, explanations as to why fund balance reserves were
budgeted. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-11: ANNUAL EVALUATION:
An annual evaluation shall be conducted of the city's revenue sufficiency/rate
structure, as follows:
   A.   Evaluate Certain Revenues: As an integral part of the annual fiscal
year budget process, city management and the city commission will evaluate the
sufficiency of utility rates, taxes and other revenues in meeting the
appropriation and expenditure needs, including inflationary factors, of the
city and its public trusts. The city manager's budget message will address this
revenue evaluation and include any related recommendations for commission
consideration.
   B.   Utility Rate Evaluation: In particular, utility rates shall be
evaluated and, if necessary, adjusted on an annual basis, after reviewing the
cost of operations, capital needs, budgetary transfer requirements,
competitor's pricing structures, and overall economic climate to ensure rates
are set at levels which will, at a minimum, cover the cost of delivery of the
related services, including depreciation. Since adoption of more modest,
relatively more frequent rate adjustments are more manageable for households
and businesses alike, modest, more frequent adjustments are to be emphasized.
Keeping rates at a sufficient level each fiscal year will prevent the necessity
of relatively larger, more sudden and dramatic adjustments in any one year.
(Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-12: NEW INITIATIVES; FISCAL NOTE:
During the fiscal year, after passage of the original approved budget,
proposals for adoption of significant new revenue or spending initiatives that
come before the city commission, which were not previously contemplated in the
approved budget, shall be referred to the city manager for review and analysis
of their short term and long term fiscal impact. The analysis shall include
consideration of onetime costs (revenues), recurring costs (revenues), and the
economic impact of the proposed activity or project on the city. The results of
this analysis shall be reduced to writing in a document to be known as a
"fiscal note", and the said fiscal note distributed to members of the city
commission for consideration before any final action is taken on the new
initiative. In order to allow sufficient time for the compilation and
consideration of the relevant fiscal note, any proposals for new initiatives
should be submitted well in advance of anticipated starting dates or related
deadlines for the proposed new initiatives, if any. (Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
3-2-13: FORMAL BUDGET CALENDAR:
   A.   An annual budget calendar shall be established and observed, as
outlined in subsection B of this section.
   B.   To ensure adequate time is provided near the end of a given fiscal year
to permit thorough review by the city commission of the following year's budget
proposal, a formal budget calendar containing intermediate milestones or
deadlines will be adopted as follows:
      1.   Meetings of the planning and zoning commission to address long term
capital improvement plan (October - February).
      2.   Issuance of budget request instructions and forms by the city
treasurer - January 1.
      3.   Return of completed budget request forms by department heads to the
city treasurer - February 15.
      4.   Development of initial revenue estimates by the city treasurer -
March 1.
      5.   Completion of utility rate structure analysis - March 15.
      6.   Submission of first draft of budget proposal by the city treasurer
to the city manager - April 1.
      7.   Working sessions with the city commission (April - May).
      8.   Presentation of the city manager's proposed budget to the city
commission - May 16 (legal deadline June 1).
      9.   Public hearing on proposed budget - June (legal deadline June 15).
      10.   Final adoption of approved budget - June (legal deadline June 24).
(Ord. 896, 11-8-2004)
CHAPTER 3
SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-3-5: Taxes Imposed; Effective Dates; Purposes
3-3-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-3-7: Tax Due Date
3-3-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-3-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-3-10: Collection By Vendors
3-3-11: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-3-12: Delinquency; Interest And Penalties
3-3-13: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refunds
3-3-14: Fraudulent Returns
3-3-15: Records Confidential
3-3-16: Amendments
3-3-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be cited as the CITY OF KINGFISHER SALES TAX ORDINANCE.
(2013 Code)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Generally: The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the
Oklahoma sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, as amended, and 37
Oklahoma Statutes sections 576 and 593, as amended, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term "tax collector", as used in this
chapter, means the department of city government or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this chapter. (2013 Code)
3-3-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for the purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code 1 . (2013 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 1350 et seq.
3-3-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2013 Code)
3-3-5: TAXES IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES:
Subject to expiration dates and discretionary termination dates listed below,
the sales tax for the City of Kingfisher shall be three and one half percent (3
½%). The use of this sales tax revenue shall be used as described in the
remainder of this Section. Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the
qualified registered voters of the city voting on the same in elections
conducted in the manner prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes.
   A.   Functions Of City Government: The city shall impose a two percent (2%)
sales tax, the purpose of which is to provide revenue for the support of the
functions of the municipal government.
   B.   Kingfisher Regional Hospital:
      1.   Sales Tax Extension: It is hereby declared that the date of the
additional one percent (1%) sales tax levied by resolution 270 shall be
extended from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2034.
      2.   Purpose: The proceeds of said additional sales tax shall be
transferred to Kingfisher Regional Hospital or, to the extent to be used for
bond debt service, to a public trust of which the city is the beneficiary, for
the purpose of securing financing to develop and construct a new hospital
facility, paying the debt thereby incurred, and current capital improvements,
operations, maintenance and salaries of said hospital.
      3.   Requirements: Kingfisher Regional Hospital shall provide to the city
a regular accounting for the proceeds of said one percent (1%) sales tax, the
details and frequency of which shall be governed by an amended operating
agreement to be entered into between Kingfisher Regional Hospital and the city
within six (6) months of the effective date hereof. Said amended operating
agreement may provide other requirements, including, but not limited to, the
establishment of a designated account or other procedure for debt retirement
and representation of the city on a hospital advisory board. Until said amended
operating agreement is entered, the current operating agreement shall remain in
full force and effect.
      4.   Limitations: Said sales tax extension may be subject to either
automatic or discretionary early termination under the following circumstances:
         a.   Automatic Termination:
         (1)   The one percent (1%) additional sales tax shall automatically
terminate if: a) the payment obligations arising from the debt incurred to
develop and construct the new hospital facility are completely satisfied; or b)
sales tax proceeds in an amount sufficient to satisfy all payment obligations
relating to the debt incurred to develop and construct a new hospital facility
are deposited with a trustee, escrow agent or other independent party by the
hospital in an account established for the sole purpose of satisfying these
payment obligations with irrevocable instructions to pay the debt from the city
and all parties who are obligated to satisfy the debt.
         (2)   An automatic termination occurring under the terms of this
subsection shall not preclude a new sales tax being levied for the purposes of
financing ongoing hospital operations based on a majority vote of the citizens
of Kingfisher at an election called for that purpose.
         b.   Discretionary Termination:
         (1)   The city commission may terminate the one percent (1%)
additional sales tax by majority vote at any regular or special meeting if: a)
development or construction has not commenced on the new hospital facility by
December 31, 2009; or b) the hospital ceases to operate as a hospital or
ownership transfers to a different entity; provided, that all debt has been
defeased as provided in subsection B4a of this section if financing for
construction of the new facility has been obtained through the sale of
municipal bonds or municipal notes. For the purposes of this subsection,
development is considered to have commenced upon acquisition of property
designated as the site of the new hospital facility and the diligent pursuit of
development and construction planning and work, as evidenced by seeking
required zoning approval, if any, selecting architects and contractors,
preparing design drawings, or other activities evidencing development and
construction planning and work.
         (2)   If the hospital ceases to operate as a hospital or ownership
transfers to a different entity, and the city commission does not terminate the
one percent (1%) additional sales tax, the proceeds thereof shall be utilized
for economic development, which shall include, but not be limited to: marketing
the city as a potential site for new business and industry, retention of
existing jobs and creation of new jobs by expansion of existing industry or
business, and such capital improvements as may be required in relation
therewith.
      5.   Effective Date: This subsection shall become effective on June 1,
2006, after approval by a majority of the voters voting on the question at an
election to be held on May 9, 2006, and shall remain in effect until December
31, 2034, at which time the additional one percent (1%) sales tax shall
automatically terminate, unless said tax has terminated at an earlier date as
described in subsection B4 of this section.
   C.   Fire, Infrastructure, Recreation, and Emergency Services (FIRE) Tax
Extension:
      1.   Sales Tax Creation: It is hereby declared that beginning on July 1,
2021 an additional one-half of one percent (0.5%) sales tax shall be levied and
collected pursuant to the terms of this Chapter of the Kingfisher City Code,
subject to the approval of a majority of the qualified electors of the City of
Kingfisher voting on the same in the manner prescribed by law. Said sales tax
shall be for a period of twenty (20) years, beginning on July 1, 2021 and
ending on June 30, 2041.
      2.   The proceeds from this additional sales tax shall be used for the
construction and/or improvement of capital assets owned by the City of
Kingfisher or any Title 60 Public Trust of which the City of Kingfisher is the
sole beneficiary. During the life of the tax, the proceeds realized from that
additional one-half of one percent (0.5%) cent sales tax shall be used for: New
Fire Station; Street Improvements; Capital Improvement Projects as approved by
the City Commission. Revenue realized from the Capital Improvements sales tax
can be transferred, by the City of Kingfisher, to any Title 60 Public Trust of
which the City of Kingfisher is the sole beneficiary, so long as the funds
transferred are to be used in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection
C. (Ord. 902, 3-6-2006; amd. Ord. 956, 4-13-2015; Ord. 2020-011, 8-10-2020;
Ord. 2021-002, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2024-010, 11-12-2024)
3-3-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2013 Code)
3-3-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under this chapter shall be due and payable at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for the payment of the state sales tax under the
sales tax law of the state. (2013 Code)
3-3-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and in
the form and manner provided for the payment of state sales tax under the sales
tax law of Oklahoma.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the sales tax for the city by
the tax collector shall be the same as hereinafter adopted by the agreement of
the city and the tax collector, in the collection of the city sales tax and the
state sales tax. (2013 Code)
3-3-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2013 Code)
3-3-10: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the city to
collect from the consumer and/or user, the full amount of the tax levied by
this chapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the
average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the manner as
other debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined in the state sales tax code, who wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax
levied by this chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user,
either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the
tax levied herein, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise,
any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for
the consumer or user by any means of adjustment of price or at a price
including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division III of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (2013 Code)
3-3-11: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
by the state sales tax code, and as the same is amended from time to time, and
remittances required of tax collected shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales tax. (2013 Code)
3-3-12: DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquency; Statute Adopted: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, as the
same has been amended and is now amended and as shall be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and
penalties at the rates and amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and
shall be applicable in the cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax
levied by this chapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal of any taxpayer
to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall
forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said
waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax
provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and as such may be amended; and
to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and, as such may be amended, are
hereby adopted by reference as a part of this chapter. (2013 Code)
3-3-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUNDS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and as such
may be amended. To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable
provisions of said statute section are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter. (2013 Code)
3-3-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code. (2013 Code)
3-3-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of the state sales tax code, 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2013 Code)
3-3-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinances at
elections provided for, hereby authorized the board of city commissioners, by
ordinances duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or
additions and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that neither the rates of the taxes herein
provided nor the use to which the revenue is designated shall be changed
without the approval of the qualified voters of the city, as provided by law.
(2013 Code)
3-3-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other tax provisions of the city ordinances. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 4
USE TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Purposes Of Revenues
3-4-4: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-4-5: Subsisting State Permits
3-4-6: Tax Levied; Transactions Subject To Tax
3-4-7: Exemptions
3-4-8: Due Date; Tax Return
3-4-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-4-10: Collection Of Tax
3-4-11: Revocation Of Use Tax Permit
3-4-12: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Of Other States
3-4-13: Delinquency; Interest And Penalties
3-4-14: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-4-15: Fraudulent Returns
3-4-16: Records Confidential
3-4-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF KINGFISHER USE TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, as used in this chapter, the
following words and terms shall be defined as follows:
CITY: The city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency of
the state duly designated, according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-3: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the city commission for
any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized. (Ord. 811,
10-17-1995)
3-4-4: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-5: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the state tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-6: TAX LEVIED; TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property
purchased or brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the city of such property at the same cumulative rates set in
Section
3-3-5 of this Code. The purpose and use of said tax revenue will be the same as
set forth in Section
3-3-5 of this Code.
   B.   Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise
consuming, within the city, tangible personal prope1ty purchased or brought
into the city. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided,
that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against tangible personal
property intended solely for use outside the city, but which is stored in the
city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily retained in the
city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance
or other service.
   C.   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or city sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the city had been levied on the
sale of such goods or services. (Ord. 906, 9-29-2006; amd. Ord. 960, 7-23-2015;
Ord. 2020-011, 8-10-2020; Ord. 2021-002, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2024-010, 11-12-2024)
3-4-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be allowed pursuant to
the applicable provisions of Oklahoma Statutes. (2013 Code)
3-4-8: DUE DATE; TAX RETURN:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 811, 10-17-
1995)
3-4-10: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state, and making sales of tangible personal property from a place
of business outside the state for use in the city shall at the time of making
such sales collect the use tax levied by this chapter from the purchaser and
give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the state tax commission, if the state tax commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the state tax
commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the city and
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in the city.
   B.   The state tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within the state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the city and by the out of state place of
business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property at such out
of state place of business for use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may be
issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the state tax
commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his
knowledge for use within the city. Such authority and permit may be canceled
when, at any time, the state tax commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in the city.
Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or completed
by delivery to the purchaser within the city by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
city sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Ord. 811, 10-
17-1995)
3-4-11: REVOCATION OF USE TAX PERMIT:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the state tax
commission, the state tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided
for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit,
if any, issued to such retailer or vendor; and, if any such retailer or vendor
is a corporation authorized to do business in this state, may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax code, or
any order, rules or regulations of the state tax commission. (Ord. 811, 10-17-
1995)
3-4-12: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the state tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-13: DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Assessment: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217, is hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the
amounts as therein specified and hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the city tax herein levied
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section,
the applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-14: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995; amd. 2013 Code)
3-4-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of the
city use tax as is herein set forth. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
3-4-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (Ord. 811, 10-17-1995)
CHAPTER 5
HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Tax Levied; Rate
3-5-3: Tax Separately Designated On Bills
3-5-4: Operator Responsible For Collection
3-5-5: Keeping Records
3-5-6: Returns
3-5-7: Payment Of Tax
3-5-8: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-5-9: Notices
3-5-10: Remedies Exclusive
3-5-11: General Powers Of City Manager
3-5-12: Administration Of Oaths And Compelling Testimony
3-5-13: Certification Of Registration
3-5-14: Interest
3-5-15: Delinquent Taxes
3-5-16: Records Confidential
3-5-17: Fraudulent Returns
3-5-18: Discount
3-5-19: Amendments
3-5-20: Use Of Funds
3-5-21: Creation Of Fund
3-5-22: Exemptions
3-5-23: Bond Required
3-5-24: Refunds
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
HOTEL:
   A.   Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, RV hookup, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which five (5) or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of such guests whether such rooms are in one or several structures.
   B.   The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourists'
homes, houses or courts, bed and breakfasts, lodging houses, inns, rooming
houses, trailer motels, dormitory space where bed space is rented to
individuals or groups, apartments not occupied by "permanent residents", and
all other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or spaces are furnished
for a consideration.
   C.   The term shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums, nursing homes, or
assisted living centers.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel, which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2020-006, 3-9-
2020)
3-5-2: TAX LEVIED; RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room
or rooms in a hotel in the city, except that the tax shall not be imposed where
the rent is less than the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day. (Ord. 875, 12-
10-2001)
3-5-3: TAX SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-4: OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION:
The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the city for the tax. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-5: KEEPING RECORDS:
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such forms as the
city manager may by regulation require. Such records shall be available for
inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the city manager, or a
duly authorized agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a
period of three (3) years. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
3-5-6: RETURNS:
   A.   Filed On Monthly Basis: Every operator shall file with the city
treasurer a return of occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon
for the period ending the last day of every month of each year. Said returns
are to be filed on a monthly basis and are due no later than the fifteenth day
of the month directly following the reporting period. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Discretionary Authority Of Manager: The city manager may permit or
require returns to be made by shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as
he may specify. The form of return shall be prescribed by the city manager and
shall contain such information as he may deem necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter. The city manager may require amended returns to
be filed within ten (10) days' notice and to contain the information specified
in the notice. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-7: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the city the taxes imposed by this chapter upon the rents included in
such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator acting or
purporting to act under the provisions of this chapter. All the taxes for the
period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the city on or before the date fixed for the filing of
the return for such period without regard to whether a return is filed or
whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the
taxes due thereon. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-8: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the city
manager from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees, or other given factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Thirty (30) days after the tax is delinquent, the city manager
shall send such person a letter outlining the legal action to be taken at the
end of sixty (60) days. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and
determine the tax unless the person against whom it is assessed, within sixty
(60) days after the giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing
to the city commission for a hearing or unless the city manager on his own
motion shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the city commission shall
give written notice of its determination to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-9: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail to the last known address of the operator. (Ord. 875, 12-10-
2001)
3-5-10: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 875,
12-10-2001)
3-5-11: GENERAL POWERS OF CITY MANAGER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city manager, he is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this chapter for the purposes thereof.
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing return for a period not
exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest.
   C.   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee
or employees of the city.
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this chapter.
   E.   To prescribe the method for determining the taxable and nontaxable
rents. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-12: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND COMPELLING TESTIMONY:
The city manager, or his designated representative, shall have the power to
administer oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in
the exercise of his powers and duties under this chapter. The city manager
shall have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and
the production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent
to the performance of his duties hereunder and to the enforcement of this
chapter and to examine them in relation thereto. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-13: CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Filing Requirements:
      1.   Prior to commencement of business or opening, every hotel operator
shall file with the city manager:
         a.   A certificate of registration; and
         b.   An affidavit and designation of operator.
      2.   The required filings shall be made on forms prescribed by the city
manager.
   B.   Registration Certificate: Every operator in business as of the
effective date hereof shall file with the city manager a registration
certificate in a form prescribed by said city manager within ten (10) days
after the effective date hereof.
   C.   Certificate Of Authority: The city manager shall, within five (5) days
after the filing of such certificate, issue without charge to each operator a
certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the
occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or
duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of
authority shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it
may be seen and come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and
shall be surrendered immediately to the city manager upon the cessation of
business at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer, or upon the change
of designated operator. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-14: INTEREST:
If any tax levied by this chapter becomes delinquent, the person responsible
and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at the rate of
two percent (2%) per month on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency.
(Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-15: DELINQUENT TAXES:
The tax levied by this chapter shall be due and payable when the return is
filed. All taxes not paid within five (5) working days from the last day of the
period, shall be delinquent. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and
to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 and
each subsection thereof are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the tax as if herein set forth.
(Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-17: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The failure or refusal of any operator/taxpayer to make reports and remittances
therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due, or failure to post a bond under this chapter shall be an
offense, and, upon conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject
to a fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code. Each day is
to be considered a separate offense to be charged severally. (Ord. 875, 12-10-
2001; amd. 2013 Code)
3-5-18: DISCOUNT:
In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing reports, and
remitting the tax when due, a one-half percent (0.5%) discount shall be allowed
upon all taxes paid prior to the time the tax becomes delinquent. (Ord. 875,
12-10-2001)
3-5-19: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Kingfisher, by their approval of this chapter at an election,
authorized the city commission, by ordinances duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax and use of funds
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors
of the city as provided by law. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-20: USE OF FUNDS:
All taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be set
aside and used exclusively for the purpose of encouraging, promoting and
fostering the convention and tourism development of the city. (Ord. 875, 12-10-
2001)
3-5-21: CREATION OF FUND:
There is hereby established a special fund to be known as the convention and
tourism department fund of the city, and all taxes levied and collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into the said fund. (Ord. 875, 12-
10-2001)
3-5-22: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The exemptions from state sales tax enumerated in 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et
seq. (hereinafter "Sales Tax Code"), as may be amended, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any conflicts in connection
with permitted exemptions should arise under this article and the Sales Tax
Code, the Sales Tax Code shall prevail.
   B.   Manner Of Claiming Exemptions:
      1.   Every hotel shall submit a monthly exemption form, as provided by
the city manager, with each monthly room tax report. This exemption form will
indicate the name of the person seeking exemption, the exempt organization with
which they are affiliated, the period of occupancy, number of rooms occupied
and any other information required by the city manager. Every exemption form
shall be signed by the hotel manager or authorized agent, so that the signature
shall serve as an acknowledgment that all information contained in the
exemption form is true and correct. Upon submission of these forms to the city,
the city manager shall make a final determination as to the validity of all
claimed exemptions. Should the city manager determine that a claimed exemption
is not valid, the hotel shall be assessed the five percent (5%) hotel tax
within three (3) months of the date that the exemption is claimed. The hotel
claiming such exemption shall become liable for payment of the tax and shall
submit the same with their next monthly tax remittance.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, an exemption will not be validated
by the city manager unless the exemption is claimed for the month in which it
accrues. For good cause shown, the city manager may grant an extension for
claiming an exemption.
   C.   Records Retention; Information On Exemption Forms: Every operator shall
be required to maintain copies of monthly room reports, monthly exemption forms
and individual exemption forms upon the business premises of the hotel for a
period of three (3) years. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the city manager, or a duly authorized
agent or employee of the city. For purposes of this section, individual
exemption forms shall be available from the city manager and shall include the
following:
      1.   A statement declaring the reasons for exemption.
      2.   The name, signature, address, home and work telephone numbers of the
person claiming the exemption.
      3.   The date on which the exemption form is completed.
      4.   An acknowledgment, by signature, of the exemption by an employee or
agent of the hotel. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 3-9-2020)
3-5-23: BOND REQUIRED:
Where the city manager believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this chapter, he may
require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a surety company
authorized to transact business in the state in such amount as the city manager
may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest due, or
which may become due from such operator. In the event that the city manager
determines that an operator is to file such bond, he shall give notice to such
operator specifying the amount of bond required. The operator shall file such
bond within five (5) days after the giving of such notice unless, within such
five (5) days, the operator shall request in writing a hearing before the city
commission, at which the necessary propriety and amount of the bond shall be
determined by the city commission. Such determination shall be final and shall
be complied within fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such bond,
securities approved by the city manager, or cash in such amount as he may
prescribe, may be deposited with the city manager, who may at any time, after
five (5) days' notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax and/or penalties
due and for that purpose the securities may be sold at private or public sale.
(Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
3-5-24: REFUNDS:
   A.   Application For Refund: The city manager shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if written application
to the city manager for such refund shall be made within two (2) years from the
date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same period, a refund may
be so made upon the initiative and the order of the city manager. Whenever a
refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such
application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was imposed and who
has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by the person who
has collected and paid such tax to the city manager; provided, that the
application is made within two (2) years of the payment by the occupant to the
operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he has
repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
The city manager, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   B.   Consider Evidence; Investigation; Hearing: Upon application for a
refund, the city manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make
such investigation as he deems necessary. After making a determination as to
the refund, the city manager shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such
determination shall be final unless the applicant, within ninety (90) days
after such notice, shall apply in writing to the city commission for a hearing.
After such hearing, the city commission shall give written notice of its
decision to the applicant. (Ord. 875, 12-10-2001)
CHAPTER 6
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Fee Levied; Rate
3-6-1: FEE LEVIED; RATE:
   A.   Inspection Fee And Service Charge:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is hereby levied an
annual inspection fee and service charge upon each and every person, firm or
corporation operating a telephone exchange in the city in an amount equal to
two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each current year for exchange
telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of the city to
compensate the city for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident to
the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation and police
control of the construction of lines and equipment of said telephone company in
the city.
      2.   The said inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the
city on a quarterly basis. This inspection fee shall commence on July 1, 2004,
and shall be payable quarterly on a date mutually agreeable to the city and the
person, firm or corporation operating the telephone exchange within the city.
Said fee shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from the general
revenue fund of the city.
   B.   Fee In Lieu Of Other Charges: During continued substantial compliance
with the terms of this section by the owner of any telephone exchange, this
charge levied hereby shall be and continue to be in lieu of all concessions,
charges, excise, franchise, license, privilege and permit fees or taxes or
assessments except ad valorem taxes; provided, however, that it is not intended
hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement whereby the city is
permitted to use underground conduit, duct space or pole contacts of said
company for the fire alarm and/or police call systems of the city.
   C.   Capital Improvement Fund: The funds generated pursuant to this section
will be deposited to the credit of the capital improvement fund of the city.
(Ord. 892, 5-10-2004)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-1-1: State Law Adopted
4-1-2: Definitions And Interpretations
4-1-3: Occupational Taxes Levied For Certificate Of Compliance
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act found in title 37A of the Oklahoma
Statutes, as amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this
section. Applicable provisions of the Act are hereby declared to be in full
force, as if included herein in complete detail. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
All words, phrases and terms used in this chapter relating to the use of
alcoholic beverages, and not defined herein, shall be interpreted and construed
in conformity with the definitions of the same as set forth in the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, as amended. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-
1-2018)
4-1-3: OCCUPATIONAL TAXES LEVIED FOR CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application; Tax: Every applicant for certificates of compliance with
the Zoning, Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the City, required by title 37A of
the Oklahoma Statutes, shall apply at the Office of the City Clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying an Occupational Tax in an amount set by the Board of
Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this Code, at the time of filing.
   B.   Investigation Of Premises: This application shall be reviewed and
approved by the following City departments:
      1.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all Municipal zoning ordinances, verified by the City Clerk, or their designee.
      2.   The applicant's proposed site and structure must comply with all
Building Codes as required by this Code, verified by the Municipal building
official, or their designee.
      3.   The applicant's proposed site, structure, and location must comply
with all Fire Code requirements required by this Code, verified by the
Municipal building official, or their designee.
      4.   The applicant's proposed location and use thereof must comply with
all provisions regarding food service requirements as required by this Code,
verified by the Kingfisher County Health Department inspector, or their
designee.
   C.   Signing Certificates: The above certificates of zoning and Code
compliance shall be signed by the City Clerk or a designated representative of
the City Clerk. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
   D.   Certificate Expiration; Prorating Of Tax: All certificates of
compliance issued under this section shall be set to expire at the end of the
fiscal year for which they are issued. As such, all Occupational Taxes levied
shall be prorated to the date they are issued based on the number of calendar
days in the fiscal year the certificate of compliance is issued for.
Additionally, any permitting fees paid prior to September 1, 2018 for the sale
of alcohol (whether designated as low point beer or any other alcoholic
beverage) for the 2018 - 2019 fiscal year shall carry forward and count as
payment for the equivalent Occupational Tax under this chapter for the
remainder of said fiscal year. Specifically, any person or entity that has
previously paid a license fee and been awarded a permit for the sale of low
point beer shall now be classified as a retail store selling wine or beer for
off premises consumption. (Ord. 2018-013, 9-27-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in such
amount as set by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to appendix A, division
III of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
ARTICLE A. BREWERIES AND BREWPUBS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Occupational Tax Levied
4-1A-2: Definitions
4-1A-3: Hours Of Operation
4-1A-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED:
No person shall operate or maintain a brewery or brewpub without having
previously paid the Occupational Tax as provided in section
4-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
BREWER: Any person who manufactures for human consumption by the use of raw
materials or other ingredients any beer upon which an Occupational Tax is
imposed.
BREWPUB: A licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on premises
located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food and
beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption. (Ord.
2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1A-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Unless further restricted by County or State regulation or law, no brewery or
brewpub to which the brewery or brewpub Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any
agent, servant or employee of such establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or
allow to be consumed any beer, as that term is defined in 37A Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-103(5), on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
ARTICLE B. WINE, BEER, AND MIXED BEVERAGE SALES FOR ON PREMISES CONSUMPTION
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Occupational Tax Levied
4-1B-2: Definitions
4-1B-3: Mixed Beverage/Caterer Combination License
4-1B-4: Hours Of Operation
4-1B-5: Employment
4-1B-6: Restrictions Upon Retail Dealers
4-1B-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED:
No person shall operate or maintain any business serving mixed beverages or
beer or wine without having previously paid the Occupational Tax as provided in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this article shall, for the
purposes of this article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except when the context otherwise requires:
MIXED BEVERAGE/CATERER: An Occupational Tax permit for sale of mixed beverages
as specifically provided by State law for the holder of a mixed beverage
license or a caterer license.
ON PREMISES BEER AND WINE: An Occupational Tax permit for the retail sale of
wine and low point and strong beer. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1B-3: MIXED BEVERAGE/CATERER COMBINATION LICENSE:
A mixed beverage/caterer combination license shall authorize the holder thereof
to purchase or sell mixed beverages specifically provided by law for the holder
of a mixed beverage license or a caterer license. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1B-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Unless further restricted by County or State regulation or law, no
establishment to which the mixed beverage or on premises beer and wine
Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1B-5: EMPLOYMENT:
No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age in the
selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age
in the selling of spirits. Provided:
   A.   Mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event,
bottle club, retail wine or retail beer licensee may employ servers or sales
clerks who are at least eighteen (18) years of age, except persons under twenty
one (21) years of age may not serve in designated bar or lounge areas, and
   B.   Mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, special event or
bottle club licensee may employ or hire musical bands who have musicians who
are under eighteen (18) years of age if each such musician is either
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or has on their person, to be made
available for inspection upon demand by any employee of the ABLE Commission or
law enforcement officer, a written, notarized affidavit from the parent or
legal guardian giving the underage musician permission to perform in designated
bar or lounge areas. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1B-6: RESTRICTIONS UPON RETAIL DEALERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where mixed beverages, beer and/or wine is sold
for consumption on the premises, or for any person in charge thereof, to:
   A.   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense to,
any person under twenty one (21) years of age, mixed beverages, beer and/or
wine;
   B.   Permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to loiter or
remain in or around such place of business, except where such business is an
eating place where the service of such mixed beverages, beer and/or wine is
incidental to the main business of serving food;
   C.   Employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age to work in such a
place, except where said place is an eating place where the service of such
mixed beverages, beer and/or wine is incidental to the main business of serving
food;
   D.   Sell, deliver or knowingly furnish mixed beverages, beer and/or wine to
an intoxicated person or to any person who has been legally adjudged insane or
mentally deficient;
   E.   Permit therein gambling, betting or operation of a lottery;
   F.   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language or any other
violation of State law or of this Code; or
   G.   Permit an intoxicated person to remain in or around a place of business
where mixed beverages, beer and/or wine is dispensed. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-
2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
ARTICLE C. RETAIL PACKAGE STORES AND RETAIL STORES SELLING WINE OR BEER FOR OFF
PREMISES CONSUMPTION
SECTION:
4-1C-1: Occupational Tax Levied
4-1C-2: Deliveries
4-1C-3: Employment
4-1C-4: Hours For Selling Alcoholic Beverages
4-1C-5: Signs
4-1C-6: Retail Package Stores; Location, Offenses
4-1C-1: OCCUPATIONAL TAX LEVIED:
No person shall operate, manage or work in any retail establishment that sells,
for off premises consumption only, any type of alcoholic beverage, as that term
is found in 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103 thereafter without having
previously obtained an Occupational Tax permit for that store as provided in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1C-2: DELIVERIES:
No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages shall sell or deliver to any retail
package store any alcoholic beverages on Sundays, New Year's Day, Fourth of
July, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
4-1C-3: EMPLOYMENT:
No person shall employ any person under eighteen (18) years of age in the
selling of beer or wine or employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age
in the selling of spirits. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1C-4: HOURS FOR SELLING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Retail Package Stores: Unless further restricted by County or State
regulation or law, retail package stores will be permitted to remain open and
operational daily from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
   B.   Retail Beer Or Retail Wine Stores: Unless further restricted by County
or State regulation or law, a retail wine or retail beer establishment may
offer wine or beer for retail sale on Monday through Sunday between the hours
of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord.
2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1C-5: SIGNS:
No person shall erect or maintain any sign designating a retail liquor store
unless they comply with the "City of Kingfisher Sign Regulations" which have
been codified at title 10, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
4-1C-6: RETAIL PACKAGE STORES; LOCATION, OFFENSES:
   A.   Location: The location of a retail package store is specifically
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of a public school, or any church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; provided, that, if any such church or school shall be established
within three hundred feet (300') of any licensed retail premises after such
premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such
license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
such church or school to the nearest public entrance door of the premises of
such package store, along the street right-of-way line providing the nearest
direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such points. For the
purpose of determining measured distance, property situated on the opposite
side of the street from such church or school shall be considered as if it were
located on the same side of the street with such church or school. A license
shall not be issued for any location on the same block where a school or church
is located.
   B.   Offenses: It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a
retail package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to:
      1.   Knowingly sell, deliver or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under twenty one (21) years of age, an intoxicated person or any person
who has been legally adjudged mentally deficient;
      2.   Employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age in the selling
or handling of alcoholic beverages;
      3.   Permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter into,
remain within or loiter about a licensed premises; or
      4.   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store. (Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018,
eff. 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Application Of Provisions
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: License Required; Exclusions
4-2-4: Application For License
4-2-5: Surety Bond
4-2-6: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License; Fees
4-2-7: Orders
4-2-8: Hours Of Solicitation; Transfer And Exhibition Of License
4-2-9: Revocation Of License
4-2-10: Penalty
4-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not prevent the delivery of goods to a
regular customer under any general or customary arrangement as may be made with
a regular clientele; nor shall its provisions apply to vendors of farm or dairy
products, the sale of insurance policies by insurance companies and its
salesmen licensed under the state insurance code, or to the gratuitous
dissemination of any materials with respect to noncommercial matter. (2013
Code)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CANVASSER: One who in a given area goes from house to house in an effort to
take orders for goods.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE: Soliciting, selling or taking orders for any goods, wares,
merchandise, photographs, newspapers or magazines, or subscriptions to
newspapers or magazines which, at the time the order is taken, are in another
state or will be produced in another state and shipped or introduced into this
city in the fulfillment of such orders.
ITINERANT MERCHANT OR PEDDLER: Those persons who, for a short period of time,
locate in a city and make sales and deliveries of their goods as established
merchants do.
ITINERANT OCCUPATION: Those occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations
having no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence or place of
business within the city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, at which a permanent business
is carried on throughout the year or usual production season in good faith (and
not for the purpose of evading the provisions of this chapter), and shall
include occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations housed in temporary
stands or quarters (including permanent quarters occupied pursuant to any
temporary arrangement), or carried on by means of house to house solicitation
or upon the streets and sidewalks of the city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma;
provided, however, that, no occupation, trade or business engaged in by a
charitable, educational or religious organization, association or club, having
a membership duly enrolled in accordance with the rules, regulations and bylaws
of said organization, association or club and the majority of said members
being residents of the city of Kingfisher, or of Kingfisher County, Oklahoma,
shall be considered an "itinerant occupation, trade, business or solicitation".
PEDDLER: Shall include the words "hawker" and "huckster" and shall mean any
person who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise of whatsoever nature, offering and
exposing the same for sale, or who does not travel from place to place, and
shall sell or offer the same for sale from any vehicle or conveyance or on any
public street or thoroughfare.
PERSON: Any individual, and shall not extend and be applied to firms,
corporations or any other organizations.
SOLICITOR: Any person who goes from house to house, or place to place, in the
city, filling or taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders for
goods, wares, merchandise or any article for future delivery. (2013 Code)
4-2-3: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   License Required; Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of peddler, solicitor, canvasser or any other itinerant occupation
within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license
therefor, as provided in this chapter, and paying the prescribed fees to cover
the reasonable costs of investigation and processing of the application. The
fee shall be paid to the city clerk when the application is filed and shall not
be returnable under any circumstances. The city commission, from time to time,
may change such fee by ordinance, to an amount not to exceed the reasonable
costs of licensing and enforcement under this chapter.
   B.   Exclusions: The following persons are hereby specifically excluded from
the application of the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property; and
      2.   Merchants growing their own local produce, and having regular places
of business in the city, and their employees, in taking orders at the houses of
their customers for goods held in stock at said places of business, and in
delivering the goods so ordered; such exclusion shall not apply to a person
who, personally or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city, for the
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. (2013
Code)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring the license required by this chapter shall make written
application to the city clerk; such application shall show:
   A.   The name, home address and local address, if any, of the registrant.
   B.   Name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time such business will be
carried on in the city; the permanent address or addresses of such person or
persons; the local address or addresses of such person or persons.
   C.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation, if any, that
he or she represents or for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or
cleared; if incorporated, under the laws of what state the same is
incorporated.
   D.   The nature of the articles or things which are to be sold, or for which
orders are to be solicited.
   E.   The capacity in which the applicant will act (that is, whether as a
proprietor, agent or otherwise).
   F.   Whether the registrant upon any sale or order, shall demand, receive or
accept payment of any deposit of money in advance of final delivery.
   G.   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business.
   H.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
   I.   If the applicant is applying for an itinerant merchant's license, the
place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant where the
applicant within the six (6) months next preceding the date of said application
conducted a temporary business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post
office and street address of any building or office in which such business was
conducted.
   J.   With respect to the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered
for sale, a statement of:
      1.   Their nature or kind.
      2.   Their invoice value and quality.
      3.   Whether they are to be sold at auction, or by direct sale, or by
direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery.
   K.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers (such as handbills,
circular newspaper advertising, radio advertising, etc.).
   L.   Whether or not the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime,
misdemeanor or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such
offense and the punishment assessed therefor.
   M.   If the application requests an itinerant merchant's license, written
approval from the chairman of the Kingfisher planning and zoning commission
approving the place or places within the city where the temporary business or
businesses will be located.
   N.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed and the proposed
method of delivery.
   O.   A copy of the applicant's Oklahoma sales tax permit including the sales
tax permit's number, or if the applicant is a charitable organization, a copy
of the applicant's Oklahoma sales tax exemption. Also, written proof that the
applicant will collect and remit state and local sales taxes to the city, if
required by state law and municipal ordinance.
   P.   Description and license number of any vehicle to be used. (2013 Code)
4-2-5: SURETY BOND:
Each individual applicant for a license shall submit with the application a
surety bond or cash in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), executed
by the applicant and by a surety company qualified to do business within the
state of Oklahoma. The bond shall run in favor of the city, but any citizen who
has been damaged by the applicant may take action on the bond. If more than one
applicant shall be employed by the same employer, the employer may furnish the
surety bond in lieu of the applicant, and the amount of such bond shall be the
total number of employees multiplied by two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). The
employer shall have the privilege of changing employees, but the number of
employees shall never exceed the amount listed in the original bond filed. Any
increase in the number of employees shall require either individual surety
bonds for the additional employees or an increase in the amount of the original
surety bond in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each
additional employee. Any employer furnishing such a bond shall furnish to the
city clerk a current list of employees covered by the bond. Such bond shall
remain in full force and effect, and in case of a cash deposit, the city shall
retain such deposit for a period of six (6) months after the expiration of any
such license. (2013 Code)
4-2-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
refer one copy to the chief of police who shall note thereon any record
concerning the applicant which may appear from the official records and return
the same promptly to the city clerk.
   B.   The city clerk shall cause such other investigation or inquiry to be
made concerning the applicant as may be deemed necessary to determine the
character and business responsibility of the applicant and whether the
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   C.   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory and the
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter, the
city clerk, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, shall issue the
license, together with any badge, tag or other materials properly an
accompaniment thereto.
   D.   If, as a result of the investigation provided for in this chapter, the
applicant's character or business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the chief of police or the city clerk shall endorse on such
application disapproval thereof and the reasons for the same, and the city
clerk shall then notify the applicant that the application has been disapproved
and that no license will be issued.
   E.   Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the chief of police or the
city clerk in the denial of a license as provided in subsection D of this
section, shall have the right to appeal therefrom to the city commission. Such
appeal shall be filed, in writing with the city commission, within fourteen
(14) days after notice of the action complained of has been given to the
applicant personally or mailed, postage prepaid, to the last known address
thereof. The city commission shall set a time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant at least five
(5) days prior to the date set for hearing. The decision and order of the city
commission on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
   F.   A fee in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code shall be paid
to the city clerk at the time of application; revocation of a license shall not
be grounds for returning the license fee to the applicant. (2013 Code)
4-2-7: ORDERS:
Orders taken by solicitors or canvassers shall be in writing, in duplicate,
stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance; one copy shall be
given to the purchaser. (Ord. 822, 11-4-1997)
4-2-8: HOURS OF SOLICITATION; TRANSFER AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Solicitation shall be conducted between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. each day, because of the need for public
security and protection; provided, however, that solicitations may be made
where the person solicited has agreed by previously arranged appointment for a
time other than during the prescribed hours. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 949, 9-9-
2013)
   B.   No license or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be used or worn at any time by any person other than the person to whom it was
issued.
   C.   Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers and other persons conducting itinerant
occupations are required to exhibit and display their licenses or authorized
evidence thereof at all times, whenever they are engaged in peddling,
canvassing or soliciting. (2013 Code)
4-2-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Causes For License Revocation: The city clerk may revoke licenses
issued under the provisions of this chapter, after notice has been served on
the applicant for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on business as a solicitor or canvasser;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any felony involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation: Notice of revocation of a license shall be in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place for a hearing where the decision to revoke may be appealed to the city
commission. Such notice shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as
provided in subsection
4-2-6E of this chapter, for notice of hearing on approval of an application for
a license. (2013 Code)
4-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code, and each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXICABS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Authorization
4-3-2: Application For License; Fee
4-3-3: Insurance; License Issuance Or Denial
4-3-4: Noncompliance; License Revocation
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: AUTHORIZATION:
A person or persons, being either an individual, partnership or corporation,
may be authorized to establish a taxi service within the corporate limits of
the city, and to have the use of the public facilities within the provisions of
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city upon complying with each
and every section of this chapter. (2013 Code)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: A person, partnership or corporation desiring to
establish a taxi service shall first apply in writing, but in no particular
form, to the board of city commissioners for a license to operate a taxi
service in the city.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Such application shall state pertinent facts
concerning such application as to age, ability to operate a taxi service and to
render to the public adequate service.
   C.   Fee: Such application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by
the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division IV of this code.
   D.   Right To Reject Application; Restrict Number Of Licenses: The board of
city commissioners reserves the right to reject any and all applicants and to
restrict the number of licenses issued. (2013 Code)
4-3-3: INSURANCE; LICENSE ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Insurance Required: If the application shall be approved, then such
applicant shall file with the city clerk a copy of public liability insurance
in a responsible company covering all taxis and vehicles employed by said
applicant in an amount to be fixed and set by the board of commissioners; not
to be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence; and showing
where the office of the taxi company will be maintained and designating a
service agent on which or on whom service may be had.
   B.   License Issuance; Term: The clerk thereupon shall issue a license which
shall run for one year and be renewable upon approval of the board of city
commissioners.
   C.   Denial Of Application: If the application shall be denied, the
application fee will be returned. (2013 Code)
4-3-4: NONCOMPLIANCE; LICENSE REVOCATION:
Such operator of taxi service shall abide by all laws of the state of Oklahoma;
the United States Of America and all ordinances of the city, including the
traffic code; and for the violation of such or for any other reason which to
the board of city commissioners may be for the best interest of the city, where
adequate service is not given, such license may be revoked. (2013 Code)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any section of this chapter, in addition to other remedies
of the city, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division III of this code. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: General Requirements
4-4-3: Medical Marijuana Dispensary
4-4-4: Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing And/Or Processing Facilities
4-4-5: Medical Marijuana Wholesale And/Or Storage Facilities
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                                       Any medical marijuana growing or
                                       processing facility licensed by the
                                       State of Oklahoma to grow or process
                                       medical marijuana in excess of twelve
                                       (12) plants. Growing includes the
COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING   cultivation, manufacturing, processing,
AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES:          packaging, and distribution of marijuana
                                       and marijuana products. Processing
                                       includes including but not limited to:
                                       drying, cleaning, curing, packaging, and
                                       extraction of active ingredients to
                                       create medical marijuana, medical
                                       marijuana products or concentrates.
                                       Any retail medical marijuana
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:          establishment licensed by the state and
                                       the city to sell or dispense medical
                                       marijuana or medical marijuana products.
                                       Any individual licensed by the state and
MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FOR PERSONAL the city to grow up to twelve (12)
USE:                                   plants within a single residence for
                                       personal medical use.
                                       Any wholesale or storage establishment
                                       licensed by the state and the city that
                                       acquires, possesses, stores, delivers,
MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR     transfers, transports, supplies, sells
STORAGE FACILITY:                      or dispenses marijuana or related
                                       supplies and educational materials to
                                       the holder of a valid medical marijuana
                                       dispensary license.
 
   B.   The city hereby adopts all other terms and definitions as established
by state law or department of health regulations. In the event of a conflict
between any definitions contained herein, the definition promulgated by the
state or the department of health shall prevail. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
4-4-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicants for any license contained herein shall be required to
possess a valid State of Oklahoma issued medical marijuana license prior to
making application for the city license.
   B.   The license outlined in this chapter will be subject to property
inspection by an authorized city inspector prior to issuance to ensure
compliance with all codes of the city.
   C.   The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by
both the applicant and the city inspector.
   D.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   E.   All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply with all
building and fire codes adopted by the state and the city.
   F.   A medical marijuana business license application shall be filled out
and signed by the property and business owner and submitted to the city clerk
prior to scheduling an inspection.
   G.   A nonrefundable license fee, as established in this chapter, shall be
paid at the time the application is submitted.
   H.   The license fee shall be set according to and used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
   I.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
herein is located to the nearest property line of the building or unit in which
the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   J.   All medical marijuana dispensary, commercial medical marijuana growing
and/or processing facilities, and medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility establishments shall be located within an entirely enclosed and secure
structure, as required by the rules and regulations of the department of
health, as may be amended from time to time.
   K.   License holder shall remit all required state and city sales taxes.
   L.   The city issued license must be conspicuously posted at the place of
business.
   M.   It is the intent of the city that nothing in this medical marijuana
chapter be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers the health,
safety, or welfare of the citizens of the city, or causes a public nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
   N.   Additional Regulations:
      1.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all city
property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
      3.   Revocation or suspension of municipal issued marijuana license;
hearing.
         a.   The city manager or designee shall revoke or suspend a license
issued under this section on any of the following grounds:
            (1)   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false
statement of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not
disclosed at the time of his/her application, and such fact would have
constituted just cause for refusal to issue the license;
            (2)   Violation of city ordinance, state law, or department of
health regulations governing medical marijuana.
         b.   Prior to suspension or revocation, the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the city manager. If an employee has been designated by the city
manager, such employee shall make a report to the city manager together with a
recommendation as to whether the license should be suspended or revoked.
      (4)   Any person or entity applying for or issued a license by the city
shall comply with all state law and department of health rules and regulations,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Revocation of the state issued license shall result in immediate
revocation of the city issued license. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
4-4-3: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY:
Medical marijuana dispensaries are hereby allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the city upon compliance with Section
4-4-2 of this Code, issuance of a retail medical marijuana dispensary business
license, subject to a fee in an amount set by the board of commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to Appendix A, Division IV of
this code, and the following additional provisions.
   A.   Medical marijuana dispensary business license shall not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any public or private school.
   B.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
      2.   The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit
issued by the state.
      3.   No on premises use of marijuana or its derivatives shall be allowed.
      4.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail medical marijuana business license.
   C.   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as set
forth in Schedule A. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and
shall be renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty fee of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require
reinspection as required by Section
4-4-2(b) of this Code. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
4-4-4: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING AND/OR PROCESSING FACILITIES:
Commercial medical marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the municipal boundaries of the city upon compliance with
Section
4-4-2 of this Code, issuance of a commercial medical marijuana growing and/or
facility license, subject to a fee in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to Appendix
A, Division IV of this code, and the following additional provisions.
   A.   Conditions Of Operation:
      1.   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
      2.   The establishment must maintain a valid sales tax permit issued by
the state.
      3.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
of the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public
right of way.
      4.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with all building and fire codes adopted by the
state and the city.
      5.   The growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create
humidity, mold or other related problems.
      6.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   B.   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as set
forth in Schedule A. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and
shall be renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty of 50 percent of the annual fee and shall require re-inspection as
required by Section
4-4-2(b) of this Code. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
4-4-5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA WHOLESALE AND/OR STORAGE FACILITIES:
Medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage facilities are hereby allowed within
the municipal boundaries of the city upon compliance with Section
4-4-2 of this Code, issuance of a medical marijuana wholesale and/or storage
facility license, subject to a fee in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to Appendix
A, Division IV of this code, and the following additional requirements.
   A.   Conditions Of Operations:
      1.   The facility shall be secure with limited access.
      2.   Buildings where medical marijuana is stored or dispensed must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises. The retail establishment must maintain a valid sales
tax permit issued by the state.
   B.   There shall be a business license fee and an annual renewal fee as set
forth in Schedule A. The annual business license will expire on June 30 and
shall be renewed prior to July 1 each year. Failure to renew will result in a
penalty fee of fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee and shall require re-
inspection as required by Section
4-4-2 B. of this Code. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
In addition to license revocation or suspension, a violation of any of the
provisions contained in this chapter shall also be deemed an offense and
punishable by a fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided
in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to Appendix A, Division III of this
code. With respect to violations of this chapter that are continuous with
respect to time, each day the violation continues constitutes a separate
offense. (Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PANHANDLING
SECTION
4-5-1: Panhandling Defined
4-5-2: Purpose Of Policies
4-5-3: License Required
4-5-4: Conduct During Panhandling Activities
4-5-5: Penalty
4-5-1: PANHANDLING DEFINED:
For purposes of this Title, Panhandling shall be defined as the process of
occupying areas adjacent to public rights-of-way with the intent of soliciting
donations for any purpose with the knowledge that there will be a likelihood of
those seeking said donations stepping into the public right-of-way where
vehicular traffic is or may be present. (Ord. 2024-009, 8-12-2024)
4-5-2: PURPOSE OF POLICIES:
The policy behind the enactment of this Title is to insure the safety of both
the panhandlers and the general public using the public right-of-way. It is
also the intent of this Title to provide appropriate coverage by law
enforcement and emergency services when panhandling activities may be
occurring. (Ord. 2024-009, 8-12-2024)
4-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Prior to any panhandling activity, any person or group desiring to conduct such
activities is required to get a permit. The application for said permit shall
include the name and contact information of the point of contact, the location
of the activity, the times the activity will occur, and whether any additional
law enforcement or emergency services presence is requested. There shall be no
fee for the permit and any application shall be approved unless the individual
or group conducting the panhandling activity has previously violated the
regulations set forth in this Title. (Ord. 2024-009, 8-12-2024)
4-5-4: CONDUCT DURING PANHANDLING ACTIVITIES:
All persons conducting panhandling activities shall wear bright, reflective
clothing to ensure they can easily be seen and should also be prepared to
identify the group they are representing if asked by the public. A copy of the
City issued permit should also be kept available if needed.
The following activities should not be conducted during panhandling activities:
   A.   Impeding traffic by walking through moving traffic;
   B.   Standing in the public right-of-way while traffic is moving;
   C.   Failing to clear the public right-of-way quickly upon traffic starting
to move;
   D.   Harassing drivers; or
   E.   Using offensive language. (Ord. 2024-009, 8-12-2024)
4-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of the rules set above will be guilty of an
offense and subject to penalty. If improper conduct is observed during
panhandling activities, the permit can be revoked and panhandling activities
must cease. Additionally, the violation can be used as grounds to deny a permit
in the future. Failure to obtain a panhandling permit required in this Title
will result in a fine in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in Appendix A, Division III of this
code. (Ord. 2024-009, 8-12-2024)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definition
5-1-2: Unlawful To Maintain Or Commit Public Nuisance
5-1-3: Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-4: Authority Of Code Official And Police Department
5-1-5: Distribution Of Handbills
5-1-6: Dilapidated Buildings
5-1-7: Other Violations; Abatement
5-1-8: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITION:
A "nuisance", within the meaning of this chapter, shall consist of doing any
act, or omitting to perform any duty, which act or omission either:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, rest, health, property or
safety of others.
   B.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, highway, public park, alley, stream, or storm
sewer.
   C.   Creates a health hazard.
   D.   Offends decency.
   E.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   F.   Any action or omission the board of city commissioners deems to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007)
5-1-2: UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN OR COMMIT PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or commit a public
nuisance within the corporate limits of the city, or to permit a public
nuisance to be maintained or committed upon any premises within the city that
is owned or under the control of such person.
   B.   A nuisance shall be considered a public one if it affects the entire
city or any community or neighborhood thereof, or any considerable number of
persons, or the property values of other persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal. (Ord. 909, 3-12-
2007)
5-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Dilapidated Buildings: Any "dilapidated building", as defined in 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112, as may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Buildings Where Prohibited Activities Are Conducted: Any building,
structure or other place or location where any activity which is in violation
of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or maintained.
   C.   Fences In Disrepair: Fallen fences or sections thereof, or fences that
are in a state of disrepair so as to threaten public safety or public welfare.
   D.   Vicious Dogs, Barking Dogs Or Noisy Animals: Any vicious dog that barks
at passersby and acts as if it intended to attack them or any dog or other
animal which repeatedly, frequently or continuously annoys persons in its
vicinity by barking or making other noises.
   E.   Loud Noises Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   Prohibited Noises: All loud noises which may annoy or prevent
others' enjoyment of the use of their property or of the parks, streets and
public ways within the city. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
person in control of the property to maintain noise levels within reasonable
limits.
      2.   Exemptions: The following sources of potentially excessive sound
shall be exempt from the requirements of this subsection:
         a.   Safety signals and alarm devices, storm warning sirens or horns
and the authorized testing of such equipment, emergency vehicle sirens or horns
when responding to an emergency.
         b.   Church bells or chimes.
         c.   Performance of construction, demolition, and/or repair work on
any public project or public utility project.
         d.   Performance of construction, repair or remodeling; provided, that
a permit has been issued for continuance or performance over such time periods
as may be so stated in the permit.
   F.   Carcasses Of Animals: The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of
within a reasonable time after death.
   G.   Noxious Odors: All disagreeable or noxious odors and stenches, as well
as the conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission
or generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires. Although
not limiting any other noxious odors, this subsection is meant to specifically
include the noxious odor emitted from the smoking or consumption of State
authorized marijuana.
   H.   Stagnant Water: Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or
maintained on any lot or piece of ground.
   I.   Human Excreta Disposal: Any method of human excreta disposal which does
not conform to the provisions of applicable City ordinances and State law.
   J.   Storage Of Vehicle Parts, Furniture Or Appliances: Any vehicle part or
parts, household furniture or appliances, or any other similar items, unless
enclosed by a sightproof fence at least six feet (6') in height erected so as
to make such materials invisible from outside the premises.
   K.   Vehicle Containing Trash Or Junk: Any pickup truck, trailer or similar
vehicle containing trash or junk which is parked, placed, stored or kept in
such a manner that the trash or junk is in view of the public for a period of
three (3) or more days.
   L.   Parking And Access To Parking On Nonpaved Surfaces:
      1.   Vehicles are prohibited from parking for any period of time on a
portion of a lot or on an area used to access said parking that is not paved
with a sealed, dustproof surface.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions contained in paragraph (1) of this
section shall not apply whereby:
         a.   Said vehicle is parked in a non-residential area and
substantially blocked from public view.
         b.   Said vehicle is parked in a residential area, adjacent to a
street or driveway, in an organized and regular manner that is satisfactory to
the public eye. This exception is inapplicable, and such parking is prohibited,
if said vehicle passes over any curb or tracks any debris into the street upon
its movement to and from said parking.
      3.   Nothing in the subsection shall be deemed to subsections K or O of
this Section.
   M.   Tracking Of Debris Onto Public Roads And Alleys: Tracking of debris
(i.e., mud, dirt, rocks, gravel, etc.) onto public roads and alleys from any
private lot.
   N.   Building Materials For Construction: Any building materials located on
residential property, unless such building materials are being utilized in the
course of normal construction, repair or remodeling on said property; and
provided further, that said construction, repair or remodeling is performed
with due diligence.
   O.   Storage Of Wrecked Or Abandoned Vehicles: Any wrecked, junked,
nonoperative, abandoned or derelict automobile or other motor vehicle not
stored within a garage or other enclosed structure if the automobile or motor
vehicle does not conform to the requirements for operation on public highways
as prescribed by 47 Oklahoma Statutes. The placing, keeping, parking or storing
of any automobile or motor vehicle which does not have a current license plate
on any property or premises within the City shall constitute evidence of the
violation of this subsection by the person then in possession of such property
or premises.
   P.   Weeds And Grass: Rank weeds, tall grass or other vegetation that is
twelve inches (12") or taller, trash, junk, stored materials or possessions
that by their location or density constitute a detriment to the health, benefit
and welfare of the public or are a hazard to traffic, create a fire hazard, or
harbor rodents or vermin. Trash which accumulates or weeds or unsightly grass
which exist upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the streets, alleys
or public easements adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of land, are hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 913, 4-9-
2007; 2013 Code; Ord. 945, 1-14-2013; Ord. 2018-006, 7-9-2018; Ord. 2019-011,
8- -2019)
5-1-4: AUTHORITY OF CODE OFFICIAL AND POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Code Official: Whenever the Code official(s) designated by the City
Commission shall determine the existence of any violation of this chapter that
constitutes a threat to the public health, comfort, safety or welfare, the Code
official shall effectuate the abatement of such nuisance in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Police Department:
      1.   With the exception of violations of subsection
5-1-3A of this chapter, which shall be enforced exclusively through the
appropriate abatement procedures outlined in sections
5-1-6 and
5-1-7 of this chapter, all other violations may be enforced either through the
abatement procedures of section
5-1-7 of this chapter or by a written citation issued by the police department.
(Ord. 913, 4-9-2007; amd. Ord. 932, 2-14-2011)
      2.   The police department shall have the discretion to issue a warning
where appropriate, allowing a minimum of ten (10) days to correct an alleged
violation without penalty.
      3.   The police department shall also have the discretion to issue a
citation in a situation where violations continue to occur after an initial
violation has been abated. (Ord. 913, 4-9-2007)
5-1-5: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS:
   A.   Definition: "Commercial handbill" shall mean and include any printed or
written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet,
paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies
of any matter of literature the primary goal of which is for profit or
financial gain.
   B.   Distribution In Public Place: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other
public place within the city. Nor shall any person hand out or distribute or
sell any commercial handbill in any public place. It shall be unlawful on any
sidewalk, street, or other public place within the city for any person to hand
out or distribute any noncommercial handbill to any person not willing to
accept it.
   C.   Depositing In Or Upon Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle in a public place.
It is unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is not willing to
accept it. However, it shall not be unlawful for business owners to place
handbills upon employee vehicles requesting employees to refrain from parking
in areas reserved for customer parking.
   D.   Vacant Private Premises: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises that are
temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   E.   Disturbing Right Of Privacy: No person shall throw, deposit or
distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises,
if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on the
premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the
words: "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", or "no advertising", "no
soliciting" or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants
of the premises do not desire to have their right of privacy disturbed, or to
have any such handbills left upon such premises.
   F.   Inhabited Private Premises:
      1.   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting the handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however,
that in cases of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided
in this section, such persons, unless requested by anyone upon such premises
not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited
private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or
prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or
sidewalks, streets, or other public places.
      2.   Mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal
law or regulations. This provision shall not apply to the distribution of mail
by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed
on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
   G.   Posting Notices On Poles, Trees Or Structures: No person shall post or
affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device, calculated to attract the
attention of the public, to any lamppost, public utility pole, or shade tree,
or upon any public structure or building, except as may be authorized or
required by law. (Ord. 869, 9-10-2001)
5-1-6: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
The city shall follow the standards, procedures, and requirements set forth in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112, as may be amended from time to time, for
the condemnation, tearing down, and/or removal of dilapidated buildings or
structures; and the city shall follow the standards, procedures, and
requirements set forth in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.1, as may be
amended from time to time, for boarding and securing of dilapidated or
unsecured buildings or structures. (Ord. 945, 1-14-2013)
5-1-7: OTHER VIOLATIONS; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice To Owners; Summary Abatement:
      1.   For all violations of this chapter, other than subsection
5-1-3A of this chapter (dilapidated, unsightly buildings), at least ten (10)
days' notice shall be given to the owner of the property by mail at the address
shown on the current year's tax rolls in the county treasurer's office, before
the city commission holds a hearing or any city employee takes action. The
notice shall order the property owner to correct the violation on the property,
as appropriate, and the notice shall further state that unless such work is
performed within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be
done by the city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk and
certified to the county treasurer against the property for the costs due and
owing the city. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 913, 4-9-2007; 2013 Code)
      2.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the code
official shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
designated recipient. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the code official, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city one time not less than ten (10)
days prior to any hearing or action by the code official.
      3.   If the code official anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111(B), the
notice, whether by certified mail, posting or publication, shall state that,
without further prior notice to the property owner:
         a.   That any violation on the owner's property reoccurring within six
(6) months after initial abatement may be summarily abated by the city;
         b.   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
         c.   That a lien may be imposed on the property to secure payment of
such costs, all without further prior notice to the property owner.
   B.   Written Consent Of Owner; Waiver Of Hearing: The owner may give written
consent authorizing the city to abate the nuisance declared under section
5-1-3 of this chapter. Such consent shall waive the right to a hearing under
the provisions of this section.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and
order provided for in subsection A of this section, the owner may request a
hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the determination that a
nuisance exists upon his property. Such request shall be in writing and it
shall be filed with the city clerk.
      2.   The city commission shall conduct such hearing as soon as may be
practicable but not earlier than five (5) days after the filing of the owner's
request for such hearing and not later than thirty (30) days thereafter.
      3.   Notice of the date of hearing shall be mailed to the owner,
certified mail with return receipt requested, at the address specified in
subsection A of this section at least five (5) days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   D.   Abatement:
      1.   If:
         a.   The owner has consented to abatement or no hearing has been
requested as provided for in this section; or
         b.   The city commission, after such hearing, has found that a
nuisance exists as defined by this chapter, has ordered such nuisance to be
abated as aforesaid; and
         c.   Such nuisance has not been abated within the period specified;
the code official or city manager may cause such nuisance to be abated
forthwith by removing same, or may cause a complaint to be filed against the
owner of the property pursuant to this section, in the municipal court, for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or both. Removal of the nuisance
may be accomplished by any necessary means including, but not limited to, the
cutting or mowing of weeds and grass and the cleaning of trash from the
property.
      2.   To effect abatement, the code official or city manager may cause the
nuisance to be abated by employees of the city or in the alternative, the city
commission may advertise for bids and award a contract for such abatement to
the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating any such nuisance, in each and
every instance where abated, shall be borne by the property owner and shall be
assessed as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007)
   E.   Costs: The city commission shall determine the actual cost of such
abatement and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward by mail
to the property owner specified in subsection A of this section a statement of
such actual cost and demanding payment. The city also reserves the right to
pursue any other cost collection procedures not prohibited by state law. (Ord.
909, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 913, 4-9-2007)
   F.   Collection Of Costs: If payment is not made within thirty (30) days
from the date of the mailing of the statement, then within the next sixty (60)
days, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the
cost to the county treasurer and the same shall be levied on the property and
collected by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Until fully
paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the county
treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the county
treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
   G.   Compliance With Statute: This section is set to follow 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 22-111. Any changes or amendments to said statute shall be
deemed to change this section. (2013 Code)
5-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person to whom a citation has been issued who is subsequently convicted of
a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to
appendix A, division I of this code. With respect to violations of this chapter
that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 909, 3-12-2007; amd. Ord. 913, 4-9-2007;
2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SMOKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Smoking In Public Places And Indoor Workplaces
5-2-1: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES:
   A.   The Oklahoma Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act as
shown in 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1247 and 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1521 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted except as
to the penalty provisions.
   B.   Smoking of State authorized marijuana is prohibited in public places
and indoor workplaces in the same manner as the smoking of other products is
prohibited by the Oklahoma Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act.
   C.   The penalties for violation of this section shall be in such amounts as
set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division I of this Code. (Ord. 2018-006, 7-9-2018)
CHAPTER 3
JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose And Objectives
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Exemptions
5-3-4: Registration Of Existing Junkyards And Salvage Yards
5-3-5: Licensing Requirements
5-3-6: General Standards
5-3-7: Maintenance
5-3-8: Enforcement Provisions
5-3-9: Penalties
5-3-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The purpose and objectives for which this chapter is adopted and enacted are as
follows:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   To promote and improve the general appearance of the city.
   C.   To protect the public from health nuisances and safety hazards by
controlling vermin, concentrations of volatile or poisonous materials, and
sources of danger to children. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD: Any tract of land, establishment or place of business
and which is maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or
selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor
vehicle parts, whether or not for profit, and shall include any tract of land,
establishment or place of business upon which more than two (2) such motor
vehicles which cannot be operated under their own power, and are not in the
process of being restored to operable condition, and which are kept or stored
for a period of ninety (90) days or more.
CODE ADMINISTRATOR: The city manager or his designee.
GARAGE: Any establishment or place of business, which is maintained and
operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body repairs to
motor vehicles, and which may store as many as ten (10) motor vehicles that are
not capable of being driven under their own power but are waiting to be
restored to operable condition. If the garage consists of two (2) acres or
more, six (6) additional motor vehicles as described herein may be allowed.
HEALTH OR SAFETY NUISANCE: A motor vehicle, used machinery, or other used
materials may be declared a health nuisance or safety hazard when it is found
to be:
   A.   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects, snakes,
rats, or other pests.
   B.   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water.
   C.   An unsafe concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive materials.
   D.   So located that there is a danger of the vehicle, machinery or other
used materials falling or turning over without assistance.
   E.   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside, or the overturning of heavy
items that could cause injury.
   F.   An unsafe concentration of car radiators, batteries, or other materials
that pose either a hazard of immediate or long term environmental degradation.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
refrigerators, stoves, household appliances, salvaged building materials,
salvaged machinery parts, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof,
iron and steel and other scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE: A. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate; or
   B.   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
   C.   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
   D.   Is more than five (5) years old and appears to be worth less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
JUNKYARD: Any establishment, place of business or place that is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. An establishment or place
of business that stores or keeps, for a period of ninety (90) days or more,
materials within the meaning of "junk" as defined in this section, which had
been derived or created as a result of industrial or commercial activity shall
be deemed to be a junkyard. A junkyard shall be presumed to have been created
when an area of "junk materials" (as defined in the definition of "junk" in
this section) are kept or stored at any given place whether for profit or not.
NEW JUNKYARD: Junkyards established after the effective date hereof or existing
junkyards which do not register within the specified time limit in order to
meet the designation of preexisting.
PREEXISTING JUNKYARD: Junkyards in existence at the time of the effective date
hereof, which register within the specified time.
RECYCLING CENTER: A temporary or permanent site at which glass, aluminum cans,
paper, plastic, clothes or similar materials commonly collected for recycling
are collected and moved off site or kept on site in enclosed buildings, storage
bins, solid waste containers, truck trailers and other rolling stock. All
materials to be recycled or recycled materials shall be stored out of public
view.
SERVICE STATION: Any establishment which is maintained and operated for the
purpose of making sales of fuels, lubricants, air, water and other items for
the operation and routine maintenance of motor vehicles, and/or for making
mechanical repairs, servicing and/or washing of motor vehicles and which is
used to store not more than six (6) motor vehicles that are not capable of
being driven under their own power. If the service station consists of two (2)
acres or more, six (6) additional motor vehicles as described herein may be
allowed. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses and activities are exempted from the license requirement:
   A.   Service stations or garages as defined in section
5-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Recycling centers using enclosed buildings or solid waste containers.
   C.   Enclosed railcars, truck trailers and rolling stock to store materials
and equipment. Enclosures must be made of materials so that the contents are
not visible to the public.
   D.   Salvage material or junk cars in enclosed buildings. (Ord. 919, 9-8-
2008)
5-3-4: REGISTRATION OF EXISTING JUNKYARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS:
   A.   Registration Requirements: All owners, operators, or maintainers of
automobile salvage yards or other junkyards existing at the effective date
hereof shall register with the code administrator within a period of thirty
(30) days from the effective date hereof. All existing automobile salvage yards
or junkyards that have not been registered within thirty (30) days shall be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Unless said junkyard or salvage
yard can be documented to the satisfaction of the code administrator as
existing prior to the effective date hereof, they shall be considered new
junkyards. If documented as existing, said junkyards shall be required to
obtain a license and be required to comply with the revised compliance schedule
listed in subsection
5-3-5D of this chapter. Junkyards and salvage yards that fail to register
within thirty (30) days and are in violation of the general standards, section
5-3-6 of this chapter, will be immediately subject to the penalties in section
5-3-9 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Registration; Information: Registration shall be
accomplished by completing a registration application. The code administrator
shall provide the necessary forms for the registration application. Information
required for the registration application shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      1.   Landowner's and junkyard/salvage yard operator's name, address and
phone numbers for business and home.
      2.   The legal description of the property. The total size of the
property and approximate size of the property involved in the junk or salvage
operation.
   C.   Time Limit: All existing junkyards and salvage yards at the effective
date hereof, registered in accordance with this section, shall be granted a
period of sixty (60) days from the effective date of registration to obtain a
license. Thereafter, any unlicensed junkyards or salvage yards shall be in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-5: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or business entity shall establish,
operate, or maintain a junkyard or salvage yard without obtaining a license.
The license shall only be issued upon the person, firm or business entity
seeking the license submitting a statement that the existing or proposed
junkyard does not violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The license
shall be valid unless revoked for nonconformance with this chapter. (Ord. 919,
9-8-2008)
   B.   License Application; Fee; Information; Expansions: Application for the
license shall be made to the code administrator, on such forms as provided
along with a nonrefundable license fee established by the board of city
commissioners and shown in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division
IV of this code. The license application shall include, but not be limited to,
the information required for the license application. A junkyard/salvage yard
plan shall be required for new yards (those not documented as preexisting
pursuant to section
5-3-4 of this chapter). The plan shall indicate setbacks, location of public
rights of way, all proposed structures, driveways, entrances, fencing, types of
fencing, dimensions of the junkyard/salvage yard, and the name(s), address(es)
and phone number(s) of the person(s) who prepared the plans. Plans shall be
drawn to scale. Three (3) copies shall be submitted. Any expansion of a
junkyard or salvage yard, whether preexisting or newly licensed, shall require
a permit. The board of city commissioners may establish a fee for this permit.
Procedures and standards for an expansion permit of an existing yard shall be
those required for a new establishment. Structures requiring a building permit
shall be made on a separate application. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
   C.   Licensing Procedure: The completed license application and junkyard
plan shall be submitted to the code administrator. The administrator shall have
the authority to either approve or deny the license. A denied license
application may be resubmitted within fourteen (14) days from the date of
denial without incurring an additional fee. The license shall run from calendar
year to calendar year and shall be renewed annually. The fee for any license
issued after June 1 will be prorated accordingly. If the license application is
denied after it is resubmitted, it can be appealed to the board of adjustment.
   D.   Licensing Compliance: Licensed existing junkyards shall conform to the
approved permit and standards of this chapter in accordance with the graduated
compliance schedule listed as follows. The listed time periods begin running
from the date a license is issued.
      1.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6C of this chapter within ninety (90) days.
      2.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6D of this chapter within ninety (90) days.
      3.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6E of this chapter within one hundred eighty (180) days.
      4.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6F of this chapter within one hundred eighty (180) days.
      5.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6G of this chapter within ninety (90) days.
      6.   Comply with subsection
5-3-6H of this chapter within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-6: GENERAL STANDARDS:
All junkyards and salvage yards, which are established from and after the
effective date hereof shall meet the following standards:
   A.   License Required; Application: Submit an application and obtain a
license to construct and operate.
   B.   Location: Not be located closer than five hundred feet (500') to a
preexisting church, school, daycare center, nursing home, skilled healthcare
facility, hospital, public buildings, public recreation facilities or residence
(excluding residence of the owner or his agent).
   C.   Compliance With Setback, Subdivision And Zoning Regulations: Observe
all setback, subdivision and zoning regulations.
   D.   Compliance With Environmental Protection Laws: Operators shall not
violate any local, state or federal environmental protection laws.
   E.   Fence Requirements: The operator or owner shall provide an opaque fence
a minimum of six feet (6') tall for junkyards and eight feet (8') tall for auto
salvage yards. The fence shall surround all of the property used for the junk
or salvage operation. The fencing shall be constructed of new wood, metal,
masonry or other suitable materials and shall be maintained in good condition.
Used material may be used as long as it provides a uniform appearance and is
free of visual defects. The code administrator shall approve all fencing. The
yard shall have one or more gates of adequate size for the access of fire and
police protection. All gates shall be kept locked during nonbusiness hours.
Signs on the fencing shall not be allowed, except for the name of the business,
service provided and the hours of operation.
   F.   Confinement Of Junk, Inoperable Motor Vehicles: All junk and/or
inoperable motor vehicles shall be kept within the confines of said fence at
all times unless being transported to or from the site.
   G.   Fire Lanes: Fire lanes shall be maintained in all junkyards/salvage
yards. Fire lanes shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12') wide and located so
that no area is more than twenty five feet (25') away from the nearest fire
lane.
   H.   Stacking Of Junk Or Vehicles: No junk or vehicles shall be stacked
higher than the fence enclosure or be stacked in such a way as to create a
safety hazard.
   I.   Trash And Weeds: The yards shall be kept free of trash and weeds. (Ord.
919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-7: MAINTENANCE:
All junkyards and salvage yards shall be maintained to protect the public from
health nuisances and safety hazards. Buildings, structures and fences not
properly maintained shall be subject to penalties defined in chapter 1,
"Nuisances", of this title. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-8: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Officials; Duties: The city manager or the code
administrator shall enforce this chapter, and may call upon other departments
as necessary to assist in enforcement of this chapter. In addition, whenever
the city manager or code administrator receives a complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter, he shall investigate the complaint, take whatever
action is warranted, and inform the complainant what actions have been or will
be taken.
   B.   Procedure Upon Violation; Remedial Action: The owner or tenant of any
building or land or any part thereof who participates in, assists, directs,
creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of
this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties
and be subject to the remedies herein provided. The following procedure shall
apply upon discovery of a violation:
      1.   If the administrator finds that any provision of this chapter is
being violated, he shall send a written notice to the person responsible for
such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and advising the violator that they shall have sixty
(60) days within which the violation shall be corrected. If applicable, the
violator shall be informed of his right to appeal to the board of adjustment.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases that threaten or pose a
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare, the administrator may seek
enforcement without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or
remedies authorized in section
5-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008)
5-3-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided
in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code. With
respect to violations of this chapter, each day the violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 919, 9-8-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Abatement Order: This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate
equitable action. The abatement order may include removal of junk from illegal
junkyards or salvage yards and legal yards not in compliance. The actions
required to make the property comply with the provisions of this chapter shall
be at the owner's expense.
   C.   License Revocation: The city may revoke the license to operate the
junkyard or salvage yard and issue an order to cease doing business. (Ord. 919,
9-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Allowable Open Burning
5-4-3: Conditions And Requirements For Open Burning
5-4-4: Permit Requirements
5-4-5: Burning Other Than Open Burning
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
ATMOSPHERE: The air that envelops or surrounds the earth.
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL AND FUELS: Any substances that will readily burn.
EMISSION: The emission of air contaminants into the atmosphere.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of combustible materials or refuse in such a manner
that the products of combustion are emitted directly into the atmosphere
without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, trade waste, leaves, salvageable material,
agricultural waste and other wastes.
SMOKE: Small gasborne particles resulting from combustion operations and
consisting of carbon, ash and other matter that is present in sufficient
quantity to be observable. (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001)
5-4-2: ALLOWABLE OPEN BURNING:
No person shall cause or permit an open burning in any public or private place
outside any building; provided, that the following kinds of open burning may be
conducted if no public nuisance is or will be created, and the same is not
prohibited by state or federal laws: (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   A.   Instruction And Training: Fires purposely set for the instruction and
training of firefighting personnel when authorized by the fire chief.
   B.   Elimination Of Fire Hazards: Fires set for the elimination of fire
hazards or hazardous material where there is no other practical or lawful
method of disposal, and/or abatement when authorized by the fire chief.
   C.   Campfires Or Bonfires For Recreational Or Ceremonial Purposes:
Campfires, bonfires, and other fires used solely for recreational or ceremonial
purposes, or for outdoor noncommercial preparation of food, with the following
provisions:
      1.   All bonfires require a permit and approval of the fire chief.
Bonfires shall not be more than five feet by five feet by five feet (5' x 5' x
5') in dimension and shall burn for less than three (3) hours. A bonfire shall
consist of seasoned dry wood. No gasoline or other liquid hydrocarbon fuels
shall be used for ignition. Bonfires are not permitted in residentially zoned
areas.
      2.   Campfires are not permitted in residentially zoned areas. Campfires
require a permit and approval of the fire chief.
      3.   Barbecue grills or other wood burning grills are allowed at public
park and recreation facilities. All fires on public park and recreation
property shall be attended at all times by at least one individual, until the
fire is completely extinguished.
      4.   Fires used for food preparation purposes, fueled by wood, charcoal,
and gas and confined within a metal or masonry appliance designed for such use
are allowed without a permit; provided, that the fires are supervised, size of
the fire does not present a fire spread danger and the fires are being used
expressly for the preparation of food.
      5.   Barbecuing on combustible decks or balconies at multistory apartment
complexes is not allowed unless noncombustible surfaces are in place to prevent
embers or ashes from contacting combustible materials. Noncombustible surfaces
are to be above, below and adjacent to the site.
   D.   Management Of Forest, Range Lands Or Game: Fires purposely set for the
management of forest, range lands or game in accordance with practices
recommended of the Oklahoma department of agriculture, the United States forest
service, and that are authorized by the fire chief.
   E.   Household Refuse And Combustible Materials: Burning of refuse and other
combustible materials generated in the operation of a domestic household when
no regular garbage service is available and the burning is not within fifty
feet (50') from an occupied residence.
   F.   Hydrocarbons: Burning of hydrocarbons by atmospheric flares when no
other means of disposal is practical.
   G.   Trees, Brush, Vegetation: Burning of trees, brush, grass, and other
vegetable matter for the purpose of clearing land and agricultural crop burning
of parcels five (5) acres or more in size when:
      1.   The burning is not within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an
occupied residence or structure other than those located on property where the
burning is conducted.
      2.   Care is used to minimize the amount of dirt on the material being
burned.
      3.   Oils, rubber and other similar materials that produce unreasonable
amounts of air contaminants and smoke are not burned.
      4.   The burning occurs between sunrise and sunset. The fire chief may
grant an earlier start time.
      5.   No traffic hazard is created.
      6.   Agricultural crop burning is confined by plowing or tilling a
parameter to a width acceptable to the fire chief.
   H.   Controlled Burn: The burning is controlled by the fire department, with
approval of the fire chief, commonly called a "controlled burn".
   I.   Disease Or Pest Control: Prevention or control of disease or pests as
approved by the state or county health department. (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001)
5-4-3: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR OPEN BURNING:
Open burning may be conducted with consideration for the following provisions:
   A.   No public nuisance is or will be created.
   B.   The burning is controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created as a
result of the air contaminants being emitted.
   C.   The burning is conducted so that ambient air quality of the general
area is not adversely affected.
   D.   Distances from any electric and overhead utilities shall be a minimum
of one hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001)
5-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fees: The following burning activities require a
permit from the city fire department, with the cost of said permits to be in an
amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code.
      1.   Bonfires.
      2.   Campfires.
      3.   Ceremonial fires.
      4.   Clearing land for the specific purpose of construction, permit fee
and deposit to be used for responding to complaints on said burn.
      5.   Prevention or control of disease or pests.
      6.   Elimination of hazards.
      7.   Maintenance of agricultural and land parcels five (5) acres or
greater: No fee. (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Acquiring Permit; Term Of Permit: A permit shall be obtained from the
fire department at least three (3) days prior to the desired date of burning
during regular business hours, by the owner or agent of the owner of the land,
and are good for thirty (30) days.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit: The fire department shall retain the authority to
revoke any burn permit at any time due to weather conditions, excessive and
justifiable complaints, noncompliance with this chapter, and any time it is
deemed to be in the best interest of the city. Permit fees will be refunded
when the revocation is based on conditions outside the control of the owner or
agent of the owner. (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001)
5-4-5: BURNING OTHER THAN OPEN BURNING:
Any burning that is not open burning shall comply with the city code and state
or federal law. (Ord. 870, 9-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor against the city and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
a fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines
and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code. (Ord. 870, 9-10-
2001; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Manufacture And Use Restricted
5-5-2: Public Display Permit
5-5-3: Possession Of Fireworks
5-5-4: Retail Fireworks Sales
5-5-5: Use Of Fireworks Prohibited
5-5-6: Penalty
5-5-1: MANUFACTURE AND USE RESTRICTED:
The manufacture and use of fireworks within the corporate limits of the city
are hereby prohibited, except as provided in section
5-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
5-5-2: PUBLIC DISPLAY PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: The city manager or his designee may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by fair associations
and other organizations or groups of individuals. Application shall be made in
writing at least five (5) days in advance of the date of display. A permit fee
is paid in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines
and fees schedule pursuant to appendix A, division IV of this code.
   B.   Inspection Or Supervision: The fire chief or his designee may inspect
or supervise any public display of fireworks.
   C.   Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall
be immediately disposed of in a way safe for the particular type of fireworks
remaining. (Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
5-5-3: POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS:
All fireworks possessed within the municipal boundaries of the City of
Kingfisher shall be stored in a safe manner to minimize any potential negative
impact to life or property. Any fireworks found to be stored in an unsafe
manner shall be subject to the provisions of section
5-5-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
5-5-4: RETAIL FIREWORKS SALES:
   A.   Retail sales of fireworks within the municipal boundaries of the City
of Kingfisher shall be allowed by permit only. Permits will only be issued if
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The retail sales will comply with 68 0.S. § 1623 (regarding the
conditions for storage, sale, and use of fireworks), as may be amended from
time to time.
      2.   The retail sales will be conducted by the holder of a valid Oklahoma
Tax Commission Sales Tax Identification Number and all sales taxes are
collected and paid as required by law.
      3.   A permit fee is paid in an amount set by the board of commissioners
as provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to appendix A, division IV
of this code.
   B.   Retail sales permits may be revoked for violations of any of the
provisions of this chapter or with or without notice in the event that the City
deems that external factors, including but not limited to weather conditions,
create an increased risk to life and property. In the event that a permit is
revoked, all fireworks must be removed from the site or shall be properly
stored to avoid danger to the public. (Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
5-5-5: USE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
The use of fireworks within the jurisdiction of the City in violation of this
chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, except as provided by
section
5-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
5-5-6: PENALTY:
The penalty for noncompliance of any provision of this chapter shall be for the
fire chief, the police chief, or their designees are directed to seize, remove,
and cause to be safely destroyed, as allowed by law, at the expense of the
owner of fireworks
(Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-2021)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Criminal And Punitive Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Weapons And Firearms
6-1-3: Disturbing The Peace
6-1-4: Vagrancy
6-1-5: Loitering
6-1-6: Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages In Public Places
6-1-1: STATE CRIMINAL AND PUNITIVE LAWS ADOPTED:
All criminal and punitive laws of the state of Oklahoma, as they may be amended
from time to time by addition or deletion, are hereby adopted by the city of
Kingfisher. Excepted from said adoption are any fines and penalties set forth
in the laws of the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 962, 9-14-2015)
6-1-2: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS:
   A.   Carrying Harmful Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to carry upon
or about his person, either concealed or not concealed, any pistol, revolver,
dirk, bowie knife, razor, slingshot, billy, brass, lead or iron knuckle, or any
other weapon that is capable of providing injury or death, or any weapon of
sufficient strength and means of producing injury or death of another, except
when doing so in the line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
   B.   Discharging Firearms:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the city
except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person or of property or when otherwise authorized by this
code or any law or ordinance.
      2.   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
   C.   Bow And Arrow Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to use a bow and
arrow or other type of weapon used for the purpose of injuring person, animal
or property within the city limits; and any person violating this subsection,
upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of committing a misdemeanor, and shall
be fined in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code.
   D.   Possession Of Loaded Pellet Or BB Gun Or Loaded Firearm:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess a loaded
pellet or BB gun or a loaded firearm within the city unless authorized to do so
by law.
      2.   If it shall appear to a duly commissioned officer from the
circumstances surrounding an event or situation that a person is possessing a
loaded pellet or BB gun or other loaded firearm, such officer may immediately
demand to inspect such firearm. If such person should refuse the inspection,
such refusal shall constitute a misdemeanor, and the violator shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount set by the board of commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this
code.
      3.   If a person is convicted of possessing a loaded pellet or BB gun or
other loaded firearm of any kind and said person is not authorized to have
possession of the same, said person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in
an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division III of this code. (2013 Code)
6-1-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace Of Others: It is unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace of another or others by violent, obstreperous or improper
conduct or carriage, by loud or unusual noise, or by unseemly, obscene,
offensive or abusive language; or to insult another or others by such conduct
or language.
   B.   Disturbing Religious Worship: It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for religious worship by making
noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud
language, or in any other manner, either within the place of worship or within
hearing distance thereof.
   C.   Disturbing Public Assembly: It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful public gathering or assembly by making noise, by rude, indecent or
improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any other
manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
(2013 Code)
6-1-4: VAGRANCY:
It is unlawful for any person to be vagrant according to the interpretation of
the definition of vagrant by the Supreme Court of the United States of America.
To be a vagrant, one must be wilfully, intentionally and unlawfully without
means and without any attempt to better or improve himself, and by his conduct
to remain constantly on the streets or in the alleys or within the perimeter of
the City without having or intending to have any visible means of support.
(2013 Code)
6-1-5: LOITERING:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf,
wander, stand or remain idle, either alone or with others in a place in such
manner so as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act which constitutes an obstruction
of or interference in the free and uninterrupted use of such property by
members of the public or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or
upon or facing or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building, or which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
      3.   In addition to the other violations provided herein, a person
commits a violation if he loiters, loafs, wanders, stands or remains idle,
either alone or in consort with others, under circumstances that warrant alarm
for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances
which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is warranted is
whether or not the person takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer,
refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any
object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstance makes it
impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify himself and explain his
presence and conduct.
   B.   Violation; Order To Disperse: When any person causes or commits any of
the conditions or violations enumerated in subsection A of this section, a
police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop
causing or committing such conditions or violations and to move on or disperse.
Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a
violation thereof. (Ord. 910, 3-12-2007; amd. 2013 Code)
6-1-6: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to be in
possession of, or to drink, any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon
any public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public building or
other public place within the City; provided, that this shall not prohibit a
person who is of age from drinking such beverage in a place licensed to sell
such beverage for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 933, 7-7-2011; amd. Ord.
2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Contributing To Delinquency Of A Minor
6-2-2: Prevention Of Youth Access To Tobacco
6-2-3: Gatherings Where Minors Consume Alcoholic Beverages
6-2-4: Curfew
6-2-1: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
   A.   Definitions:
    COMPELLING REASON: Imminent danger from incest, a life threatening
situation, or equally traumatizing circumstance.
   RUNAWAY CHILD: An unemancipated minor who is voluntarily absent from the
home without a compelling reason, without the consent of the custodial adult
and without the custodial adult's knowledge as to the child's whereabouts.
   B.   Encouraging Delinquency: Except as otherwise specifically provided by
law, every person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid, abet or encourage
a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent child or a runaway child,
upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Penalty: Upon conviction for violation of this section, the punishment
shall be a fine in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in
the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this Code. (Ord.
862, 6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
6-2-2: PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
                         Any product that contains nicotine extracted or
                         isolated from plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds,
                         genetically modified organic matter, or that is
NICOTINE PRODUCT:        synthetic in origin and is intended forhuman
                         consumption; provided, however, this term shall not
                         include products approved by the United States Food
                         and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
PERSON:                  Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership,
                         corporation, trust, or association, however formed.
                         A driver license, license for identification only, or
                         other generally accepted means of identification that
PROOF OF AGE:            describes the individual as twenty-one (21) years of
                         age or older and contains a photograph or other
                         likeness of the individual and appears on its face to
                         be valid.
                         A tobacco product, nicotine product, or vapor product
SAMPLE:                  distributed to members of the public at no cost for
                         the purpose of promoting the product.
SAMPLING:                The distribution of samples to members of the public
                         in a public place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT:         Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
                         human consumption.
                         The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
TRANSACTION SCAN:        transaction scan device, the validity of a driver
                         license or other government-issued photo
                         identification.
                         Any commercial device or combination of devices used
                         at a point of sale or entry that is capable of
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: deciphering in an electronically readable format the
                         information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code
                         of a driver license or other government-issued photo
                         identification.
                         Non-combustible products, that may or may not contain
                         nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element,
                         battery, electronic circuit, or other mechanism,
                         regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
                         produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor
                         products" shall include any vapor cartridge or other
                         container with or without nicotine or other form that
                         is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette,
VAPOR PRODUCT:           electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
                         pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor
                         cartridge or other container of a solution, that may
                         or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be
                         used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic
                         cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device.
                         "Vapor products" do not include any products regulated
                         by the United States Food and Drug Administration
                         under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
 
   B.   Unlawful to sell or furnish tobacco, nicotine, or vapor product to
persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any
manner any tobacco product, nicotine product, or vapor product to another
person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner
a tobacco product, nicotine product, or vapor product on behalf of any such
person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of
age to handle tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products when
required in performance of the employee's duties.
      2.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products, or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one
(21) years of age.
   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products, or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subparagraph B.
      3.   Penalty:
         a.   Any violation of subparagraph B(1) or B(2) of this Section
6-2-2 is an offense against the City of Kingfisher; upon conviction of any such
offense, the violator shall be punished as set by the Board of Commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to appendix A, division III of
this Code.
      4.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product,
nicotine product, or vapor product presented a driver license or other
government-issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was twenty-one (21) years of age or older; or
         b.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subparagraph does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law.
   C.   Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor products, or product samples to any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      2.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products,
vapor products, or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or
park that is within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or
other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age.
      3.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subparagraph C(1) or C(2) of this Section 6-2-2, a
fine shall be assessed in such amounts as set by the Board of Commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to appendix A, division III of
this Code.
   D.   Public Access To Displayed Tobacco, Nicotine, Or Vapor Products:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer
for sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner
that allows public access to the tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
nicotine products, or vapor products or an employee or the owner of the store.
The provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to retail stores which do
not admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      2.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, a fine shall be assessed in such
amounts as set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule pursuant to appendix A, division III of this Code.
   E.   Enforcement:
      1.   Any conviction for a violation of this Section
6-2-2 and any compliance checks by a municipal police officer pursuant to
subparagraph E(3) of this Section
6-2-2 shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
(ABLE) Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
Commission. Convictions shall be reported by the Court Clerk or his designee
and compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his designee.
      2.   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
      3.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in compliance checks and enforcement of this
Article pursuant to the rules of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 937, 8-12-2011;
amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2024-002, 3-11-2024)
6-2-3: GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages as defined in this
section.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, Code enforcement, fire, or
other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to,
remaining at, or otherwise dealing with, a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
      2.   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, Code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
      3.   The cost of repairing any City equipment or property damaged, and
the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
      4.   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section. (Ord. 916, 2-11-2008; amd. Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
   B.   Consumption In Public Place Or Place Not Open To Public: Except as
permitted by State law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverages; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage, that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Responsibility Of Person In Control Of Premises:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are: controlling the quantity of alcoholic
beverages present at the gathering, verifying the age of persons attending the
gathering by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued
identification cards to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages
while at the gathering, and supervising the activities of minors at the
gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Exceptions For Certain Activities; Intoxicated Minor In Public
Unlawful:
      1.   Minor And Parents: This section shall not apply to conduct involving
the use of alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his
or her parent or legal guardian.
      2.   Family Activities: Nothing in this section should be interpreted to
prohibit any family activity held in the confines of the family home from
providing the use of alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision
of parents and guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering
intoxicated and is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held
responsible in the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      3.   Religious Practices: Nothing in this section should be interpreted
to prohibit any religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However,
if a minor leaves such religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in
public, then said provider of alcohol will be held responsible in the same
manner as a nonreligious gathering.
      4.   Licensed Premises: This section shall not apply to any premises
licensed by the state to dispense alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 916, 2-11-2008)
   E.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount set by the board of commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this
code. (Ord. 916, 2-11-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
by this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the city's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
   F.   Local Authority: This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law. (Ord. 916, 2-11-2008)
6-2-4: CURFEW:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, a "minor" shall mean any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years, but shall not include any person
who is legally emancipated or certified as an adult.
   B.   Curfew Generally: No minor shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play
in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement
and entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, to include, but
not be limited to: driving, riding or parking any motorized or nonmotorized
vehicle in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and public buildings, places
of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places,
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of
the following day, of every night and morning in the week, except Friday and
Saturday nights and the following morning, and between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight Friday and Saturday nights and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
of the following morning.
   C.   Exceptions: The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of subsection B of this section:
      1.   At any time, if the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal
guardian or adult person having care and custody of the minor, or other person
who has reached the age of twenty one (21) years old and who is specifically
approved by the minor's parent, legal guardian, or adult person having care and
custody of the minor, which person shall be responsible for the acts of the
minor.
      2.   Until the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on any day of the
week, if the minor is on an errand as directed by his or her parent, legal
guardian or adult person having care and custody of the minor.
      3.   If the minor is legally employed, for the period for one- half (1/2)
hour before to one-half (1/2) hour after work, while going directly between his
or her home and place of employment. This exception shall also apply if the
minor is in a public place during curfew hours in the course of his or her
employment. To come under this exception, the minor must be carrying a written
statement from the employer attesting to the place and hours of employment.
      4.   If the minor is coming directly home from a school activity or an
activity of religious or other voluntary association, or an organized team
sporting event with an adult coach present. This exception will apply for one-
half (1/2) hour after the completion of such event. If the event does not have
a fixed, publicly known time at which it will end, the sponsoring organization
must register the event with the police department at least twenty four (24)
hours in advance, informing said department of the time such event is scheduled
to begin, the place at which said event shall be held, the time at which the
event shall end, and the name of the sponsoring organization.
      5.   If the minor is exercising first amendment rights protected by the
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, speech or assembly,
provided the minor first has given notice to the chief of police by delivering
a written communication signed by the minor and countersigned by a parent of
the minor, which specifies when, where, in what manner, and for what first
amendment purpose the minor will be on the streets at night during the curfew
period.
   D.   Violations:
      1.   Arrest Of Minor; Procedure:
         a.   A police officer who has probable cause to believe that a minor
is in violation of this section shall arrest the minor and take such minor to
the police station. At that time, the minor's parent, legal guardian or adult
person having the care and custody of the minor shall be immediately contacted.
When the parent, legal guardian or adult person having care and custody of such
minor arrives at the police station, or when such minor is taken to the
residence of such parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and
custody of the minor, such parent, legal guardian or adult person having the
care and custody of the minor shall be given a copy of this section, the notice
as provided in subsection D2 of this section.
         b.   The minor and parent, legal guardian, or adult person having the
care and custody of the minor shall be required to sign a document ("promise to
appear") evidencing their promise that the minor and parent, legal guardian or
adult person having the care and custody of the minor will appear before the
municipal court at the date and time that the minor has been scheduled to
appear before the municipal court. The minor and parent, legal guardian, or
adult person having the care and custody of the minor shall be given a copy of
the promise to appear. If no such parent, legal guardian or adult person having
the care and custody of the minor takes custody of the minor, the minor may be
referred to youth and family services pursuant to state law, released to a
responsible adult or relatives, or such other action as the police officials
deem necessary.
      2.   Charging Minor With Violation; Notice To Parent: In the case of a
violation of this section by a minor, the minor shall be charged with violation
of curfew. In addition, the police shall send the minor's parent, legal
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor, written
notice of the violation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
serving such notice personally on such person, warning them that further
violations may result in the filing of a charge against such parent, legal
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of the minor for a
violation of subsection D3 of this section.
      3.   Parents Held Responsible For Violation By Minor: No parent, legal
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor shall
permit such minor to violate the provisions of subsection B of this section. In
any prosecution for the violation of the provisions of this section, conviction
of the minor for violation of subsection B of this section, together with proof
that the parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of
such minor was given written notice of a previous violation of subsection B of
this section, shall constitute in evidence a prima facia presumption that the
parent, legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of such
minor permitted such minor to violate subsection B of this section. (Ord. 839,
10-5-1999)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code. (Ord. 839, 10-5-1999; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Animals At Large; Confinement; Control
6-3-3: Disturbances By Animals; Public Nuisance Abatement
6-3-4: Keeping Animals, Requirements And Restrictions
6-3-5: Responsibilities Of Owners
6-3-6: Cruelty To Animals
6-3-7: Turning Confined Animals At Large
6-3-8: Pasturing In Public Areas
6-3-9: Rabies Control; Vaccination Requirements
6-3-10: Confining Female Dogs And Cats
6-3-11: Destruction Or Adoption Of Dogs Running Loose
6-3-12: Inspections For Enforcement
6-3-13: Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
6-3-14: Bird Sanctuary
6-3-15: Impoundment, Redemption And Surrender Of Animals
6-3-16: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates, or specifically provides for, a different meaning:
ANIMAL: All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or wild.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person(s) responsible for enforcement of the City
of Kingfisher, Oklahoma's, ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal
control in said community.
ANIMAL SHELTER OR MUNICIPAL POUND: Any premises formally designated by the City
Commission for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under the
authority of this chapter.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means, on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of the immediate family over twelve (12) years of age or an
agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or
not.
HARBORING: Allowing any animal to habitually remain, or be fed, on premises
under an owner's control.
KENNEL: Any structure or place where more than four (4) dogs, over six (6)
months of age, are kept, bred or trained, at any single time, or any facility
designed or built to accommodate the temporary (less than 60 days) boarding of
more than four (4) dogs over six (6) months of age.
LIVESTOCK: All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
NEUTER: To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
NEW OWNER: A person legally competent to enter into a contract acquiring a dog
or cat from the releasing agency.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
Occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal customarily
returns for a period of ten (10) days or more, shall be deemed to be harboring
or keeping the animal, and thereby considered to be an "owner" of said animal.
PET: Any animal kept primarily for pleasure, rather than for sale or other
commercial purpose.
RELEASING AGENCY: Any pound (Municipal or otherwise), shelter or Humane Society
organization, whether public or private.
RESTRAINT: An animal shall be deemed to be under "restraint" if on the premises
of its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person, or in the
case of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged in the act of
hunting.
SPAY: To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat, in order to render said
animal unable to reproduce.
STERILIZATION: To spay or neuter a dog or cat.
VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL: Shall refer to any dog or animal which has bitten or
attempted to bite any person without undue provocation, or which attacks, barks
or growls at and acts as if it intended to attack or bite, any person or
persons when not unduly provoked.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally wild
state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated; the term shall include such
animals (hereinabove described) which may be owned by a circus or wild animal
show or exhibition. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT; CONTROL:
   A.   Allowing To Run At Large: It shall be unlawful and an offense for the
owner of any animal to allow the animal to be at large or trespass upon the
premises of another person, or be at large at any time within the corporate
limits of the city.
   B.   Confinement And Control: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to:
      1.   Keep, own, harbor or possess any dog within the corporate limits of
the city without providing a substantial and secure pen in which said dog shall
be confined (which pen shall be sufficient in size that no sanitation or health
problem shall be involved); or to
      2.   Allow a dog to be under the control of any person, and placed on an
inadequately sized leash so that it can reach or bite any person who may be
using the public thoroughfares of the city, so the dog can reach beyond the
limits of the lot or premises upon which said dog is kept and confined, or so
the dog may reach any person who may be rendering necessary services to the
house of such owner, upon the premises where said dog may be kept, harbored or
possessed. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-3: DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Nuisances:
      1.   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace, or
creates a nuisance for, any person or persons.
      2.   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   B.   Abatement: Abatement of such public nuisances shall be handled in
accordance with the provisions of title 5, chapter 1, "Nuisances", of this
code. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-4: KEEPING ANIMALS, REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations: It shall be unlawful and an offense for
any person to keep any animals within the corporate limits of the city, except
under those conditions and provisions which may hereinafter specifically
regulate the keeping of certain types of animals.
   B.   Prohibited Animals: If no specific provisions are listed in this code
for keeping of a particular type of animal, said animal type shall not be kept
at all within the corporate limits of the city.
   C.   Swine: No swine shall be kept within the corporate limits of the city
with the exception of FFA and/or 4-H projects kept on public school property,
or in appropriately zoned areas (in this code, see title 11 for zoning
districts, A-agricultural district).
   D.   Construction And Maintenance Of Structure And Premises:
      1.   Every structure, including any structure meeting the definition of a
"kennel" under section
6-3-1 of this chapter, which is otherwise authorized by proper procedure
pursuant to the planning and zoning ordinance, wherein any authorized animal is
kept within the corporate limits of the City, shall be constructed of such
material and in such a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all
times, and it shall be maintained in said condition, devoid of rodents and
vermin and free from objectionable odors.
      2.   Every such structure, if located within two hundred feet (200') of
any tenement, apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence (other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept), shall provide a watertight and flytight
receptacle for manure, of sufficient size to hold all accumulations of manure.
Such receptacle shall be emptied with sufficient frequency and in such manner
as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered
at all times, except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or
refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
such receptacle. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
   E.   Fences: Fences that are used to contain animals must be constructed of
materials capable of securing the animal. The City Code Enforcement Office
shall have the authority to approve or disapprove said fence. (Ord. 949, 9-9-
2013)
   F.   Livestock And Poultry: The keeping or raising of horses, sheep, cattle,
goats and chickens (or similar fowl) shall be permitted only in an agricultural
district in the City; provided, that the premises comply with the provisions of
subsections D and E of this section, and State and County Health Department
requirements and standards.
   G.   Bees: The keeping of bees within the corporate limits of the City shall
be permitted only in those areas zoned for agricultural or large lot (over 2
acres) residential uses, and in accordance with zoning ordinance provisions. No
license or permit, other than zoning clearance, shall be required to keep or
raise bees.
   H.   Birds: The raising of parakeets and/or other small birds or similar
fowl shall be permitted within the City without license or permit requirements,
subject to the following provisions:
      1.   All activities associated with the raising of parakeets shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view;
      2.   Premises utilized for the raising of parakeets shall be maintained
in accordance with subsection D of this section; and
      3.   All requirements of any adopted zoning ordinance shall be met.
   I.   Rodents: The raising or keeping of rodents, for any purpose, shall be
permitted in accordance with the provisions of subsection D of this section, as
well as any applicable provisions of the adopted zoning ordinance.
   J.   Rabbits: The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection D of this section, as well as any
applicable provisions of any adopted zoning ordinance.
   K.   Wild Animals: The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be
prohibited within the City, except for those wild animals which may be under
the care of traveling shows or circuses.
   L.   Snakes: No snakes, which are poisonous in their natural state, may be
kept within the corporate limits of the City. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to keep or raise such snakes within the City.
   M.   Farming Or Ranching Operations: Consistent with provisions of the
City's current or future zoning ordinance, persons living within the corporate
limits who are conducting farming and/or ranching operations on tracts of land
of five (5) acres or larger may keep and maintain such animals as may be
required or useful in their operations; provided, that such sanitary
requirements as may be detailed in this section and chapter shall be complied
with at all times, regardless of the size of the tract of land involved. (Ord.
924, 1-11-2010)
   N.   Vicious Animals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to keep, own,
harbor, or possess any vicious animal within the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   If an animal has previously bitten a human being two (2) or more
times without provocation, such finding shall be prima facie evidence that the
animal has a vicious and furious disposition.
      3.   When any complaint is filed in the Municipal Court of the City
alleging that a vicious or dangerous animal is kept, owned, harbored, or
possessed, in violation of this subsection, then the person against whom the
complaint is filed, or any other person having control or custody of the animal
alleged to be vicious and dangerous, shall deliver the animal to the animal
control officer or a duly designated representative for confinement. Any
confinement fees shall be the responsibility of the person against whom the
complaint is filed or any other person having control or custody of the animal
alleged to be vicious.
      4.   In addition to the complaint alleging violation of this subsection,
a complaint may be filed requesting the court to make a determination that an
animal is vicious. The procedures set forth in subsection N3 of this section
providing for the delivery of the animal to the animal control officer shall be
applicable to this paragraph. If the court finds the party against whom this
complaint is filed guilty of violating the provisions of this subsection, or if
the court finds the animal is a vicious animal constituting an unreasonable
risk to the safety of human beings, then the animal may be destroyed.
      5.   If the Municipal Court judgement is appealed to a higher court as
provided by the laws of the State of Oklahoma and the laws of the City, then
the animal shall not be destroyed until the appeal has been disposed of by the
higher court. Any confinement fees charged while the appeal process is carried
out shall be the responsibility of the person against whom the complaint is
filed or any other person having control or custody of the animal alleged to be
vicious. (Ord. 2018-009, 9-10-2018)
6-3-5: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS:
   A.   Generally: In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of
any animal shall have the following additional responsibilities:
      1.   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
      2.   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
      3.   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
   B.   Breeding Of Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any
animal for breeding purposes within the corporate limits of the City, except in
private, enclosed locations, entirely out of the public view, or to permit
animal breeding activities in any place except a private enclosed place. (This
provision shall not be construed as permitting the conditional keeping of any
animals otherwise prohibited or regulated by this Code.) (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly,
wilfully or maliciously to:
      1.   Deposit any animal onto the property of another or on public
property or rights-of-way with the intention of abandoning the same;
      2.   Pour on or apply to an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts
pain;
      3.   Improperly use any collar, leash, harness, etc., resulting in pain
or damage to an animal;
      4.   Treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
      5.   Neglect an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner when the person
responsible for the neglect is the animal's owner or otherwise charged with the
animal's care and custody at the time the animal is neglected;
      6.   Kill, or attempt to kill, any animal in an inhumane manner; or
      7.   Poison, or expose to poison, any dog or other animal, except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal.
   B.   Encouraging To Fight: It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate
or encourage a fight between animals, or to keep a house, pit or other place
used for fights between animals. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-7: TURNING CONFINED ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which an animal is
confined (as required by ordinance), so as to turn such animal at large, or to
in any other manner turn such animal at large, whether or not the person is the
owner of the animal which is so released. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-8: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on
any public property (Federal, State, Municipal or other), or on any railroad
right-of-way, without the consent of the person owning or controlling such
property. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-9: RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vaccination Required; Issuance Of Certificate: Any warm blooded animal,
capable of transmitting the virus rabies, maintained or harbored at any time in
the City shall be vaccinated against rabies with an approved vaccine
administered by a veterinarian who shall maintain a record of vaccination for a
period of at least three (3) years, and who shall issue the owner of such
animal a vaccination certificate (which shall be retained by said owner until
it expires and is renewed). The failure to present such certificate when so
requested by the animal control officer shall be prima facie evidence that such
animal has not been vaccinated.
   B.   Quarantine Of Animal; Rabies Control:
      1.   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the animal control officer and County
Health Department. The animal control officer shall securely quarantine such
animal until reasonable determination has been made that the animal is not
infected with rabies. At the discretion of the animal control officer, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at a veterinary hospital of
the owner's choice (at the owner's expense). The owner may reclaim said animal,
if adjudged free of rabies; such owner shall then pay any related charges for
confinement.
      2.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid,
or is suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian, and dies while
under such observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian or other
designated person shall immediately send the necessary part of such animal to
the State Department of Health for pathological examination and shall notify
the proper health officer of any reports of human contact.
      3.   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the City Commission a community wide quarantine;
upon the invoking of such quarantine by the City Commission, no animal shall be
taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets, except for short
periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent adult). During such
quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the City without written
permission of the animal control officer.
      4.   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed; or, at the owner's
expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies infection by a licensed
veterinarian; or, held under six (6) month quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended.
      5.   No person shall remove from the City any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any animal that has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand; the animal control officer shall
direct disposition of said animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when the animal control officer lawfully
makes such demand.
   C.   Compliance With Vaccination Requirements: It shall be unlawful to not
comply with all the Municipal vaccination requirements after fifteen (15) days
of residency. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-10: CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS:
Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined, in a building or secure
enclosure, in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-11: DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF DOGS RUNNING LOOSE:
   A.   The animal control officer, designated representatives or any police
officer of the City shall be required to kill any dog running loose within the
corporate limits of the City, which is determined by the animal control officer
or police officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat to the public health and
safety, and which dog is found running at large without being restrained in a
pen or on a leash (as provided by this chapter), without keeping said dog in
the Municipal pound for any period of time.
   B.   The animal control officer or designated representatives of the City
may destroy, in a humane manner any dog, or a proper home may be established by
any person (other than the owner) desiring the animal as a pet and willing to
pay applicable fees and expenses for any dog running loose within the corporate
limits of the City, which dog has previously been impounded two (2) or more
times for running loose and which dog is found running at large without being
restrained in a pen or on a leash (as provided by this chapter), without
keeping said dog in the Municipal pound for any period of time. (Ord. 2018-009,
9-10-2018)
6-3-12: INSPECTIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The local or County health official or the animal control officer, upon
complaint of any person or on a self-initiated basis, shall inspect any
structure or place wherein an animal is kept.
   B.   The local or County health official, or the animal control officer, may
issue any such reasonable order as may be deemed necessary to the owner of such
animal, to cause such animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a
manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   C.   The local or County health official, or the animal control officer, may
make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for violation of
any provision of this chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall
not abridge the right of others to make such complaints. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-13: ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL:
   A.   In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future
Zoning Ordinance, the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance shall prevail and
supersede the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   No animal shall be kept in violation of the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord.
924, 1-11-2010)
6-3-14: BIRD SANCTUARY:
   A.   Bird Sanctuary Designated: The entire area embraced within the
corporate limits of the City shall be, and the same is hereby, designated as a
bird sanctuary. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: With the exception of the actions of the City of
Kingfisher animal control officers, their assigns or designees, while acting
within the scope of their official duties, it shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Trap, hunt, shoot or molest any bird or wild fowl;
      2.   Rob bird nests or wild fowl nests;
      3.   Trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot any game bird within one
hundred feet (100') of any residence or dwelling within the City limits. (Ord.
2019-008, 4-8-2019)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
6-3-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
6-3-15: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND SURRENDER OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Municipal Pound Authorized:
      1.   The City Commission is hereby authorized to establish a Municipal
pound, under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Police or the animal control
officer, who shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded, and
treat them in a humane manner.
      2.   The Municipal pound may be established on a shared or contractual
basis with other units of government or with a private individual or firm, and
need not be physically located within the City.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer (or any other
designated officer or employee of the City) to take into custody, and impound,
any animal running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The animal control officer shall also proceed to impound any dog
that is running at large within the corporate limits of the City, or that is
not confined with a secure and suitably sized leash (as provided in this
chapter), regardless of whether or not the dog has been vaccinated or the dog
bears a tag.
      3.   The animal control officer shall immediately pick up and impound any
and all dogs which are kept, owned, possessed or harbored in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this Code.
      4.   Any person appearing at the Municipal pound who shall satisfy the
keeper of the same of the fact of ownership or the right to the possession of
any dog therein impounded shall have such dog returned, upon the payment of
charges due, as authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Animals which are of no apparent value, taken into custody as
provided in this chapter, shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the animal
control officer; provided, that no animal taken into custody shall be destroyed
until such animal shall have been impounded at least seventy two (72) hours.
During such time, the owner may reclaim the animal or a proper home may be
established for such animal by any person desiring the animal as a pet and
willing to pay applicable fees and expenses incurred in the animal's detention.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct the
duties and activities of the Municipal official or employee responsible for
impounding animals. (Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
   C.   Fees For Impoundment, Keeping, And Redemption Of Animals: The fees for
the impoundment, keeping, and redemption of an animal shall be paid to the City
Clerk prior to the animal being redeemed. Receipt for payment of all
impoundment, keeping and redemption fees shall be presented to the animal
control officer, or the person in charge of the Municipal pound, before the
animal shall be released. If the animal is not redeemed, payment for the
impoundment and keeping of the animal shall be paid within thirty (30) days of
notification of the amount owed. The amount of the impoundment, keeping, and
redemption fees shall be in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this
Code. (Ord. 2018-012, 9-10-2018)
   D.   Breaking Pound: No unauthorized person shall break open, or attempt to
break open, the Municipal pound, or take or let out any animal therefrom, or
take or attempt to take, from any officer or employee of the City, any animal
taken into custody as provided by this chapter, or in any manner interfere with
or hinder such officer or employee in the discharge of duties relating to the
taking into custody and impounding of animals, as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 924, 1-11-2010)
   E.   Voluntary Surrender Of Animals: Prior to acceptance by the City,
residents who voluntarily surrender animals shall pay a surrender fee to the
City Clerk. Receipt for payment of the surrender fee shall be presented to the
animal control officer, or the person in charge of the Municipal pound, before
the animal shall be accepted. Further, the City reserves the right to reject
the surrender of any animal for any reason. The amount of the surrender fee
shall be in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code. (Ord. 2018-
012, 9-10-2018)
6-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, or
who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any Health
Officer, the Chief of Police or the Animal Control Officer, pursuant to this
chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in a sum set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division I of this Code. Every day's violation of any
provision of this chapter or of such order of the Health Officer, Animal
Control Officer or Chief of Police, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
924, 1-11-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-2: Speed Regulations
7-1-3: U-Turns
7-1-4: Crossing Private Property
7-1-5: Following Emergency Vehicles
7-1-6: Reserved
7-1-7: Penalty; Certain Violations Enumerated
7-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The Oklahoma Highway Traffic Safety Code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference, including the definitions of said title, and
incorporated in the laws of the City as if set out herein in full, for the
purposes of establishing locally appropriate rules and regulations for the
control of traffic within the City. (2013 Code)
7-1-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basic Rule And Maximum Limits:
      1.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway, and
any other condition then existing; and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring such vehicle to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with subsection A1 of this section, the limits specified in this
section or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds
and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such
maximum limits, as follows:
         a.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on any street or adjacent to any
school where "school zone" has been designated by appropriate signs at the
times posted on said school zone signs.
         b.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified by the school zone sign;
provided, that the Board of Commissioners, by motion or resolution, may reduce
or increase this speed limit, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be
placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed
limit. (Ord. 856, 3-12-2001)
   B.   Speed Regulation Changes: The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution
rather than by ordinance, change any speed regulation or traffic regulation
with respect to any street, alley or highway. (2013 Code)
7-1-3: U-TURNS:
   A.   Definition: A "U-turn" means a turn by which a vehicle reverses its
course of travel on the same street.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall make a U-turn at the following
locations:
      1.   Any place other than an intersection or a median opening;
      2.   Intersections where traffic control signals are installed, except
where an official "U-Turn Allowed" sign has been erected and is maintained for
the direction signed;
      3.   Intersections where an official "No U-Turn" sign has been erected
and is maintained for the direction signed; and
      4.   Intersections where no left turns are specifically prohibited for
the direction signed.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, there shall be imposed punishment as
provided in section
7-1-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 878, 5-13-2002; amd. 2013 Code)
7-1-4: CROSSING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall drive upon or through any property such as a service
station, parking area, vacant lot, or similar property so as to avoid obedience
to traffic regulations, the use of a street, or any traffic control device when
the owner or person in charge of said property erects a sign prohibiting such
activity.
   B.   The enforcement of this section may be commenced only upon written
permission of such owner or person in charge filed with the City. (Ord. 817,
11-5-1996)
7-1-5: FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
    AUTHORIZED PERSON: All State, County and Municipal police and fire
personnel; hospital and ambulance crews; National Guard and civil defense
personnel ordered into the disaster area by proper authority; Federal civil and
military personnel on official business; persons who enter the disaster area to
maintain or restore facilities for the provision of water, electricity,
communications, or transportation to the public; and such other officials as
have a valid reason to enter said disaster area.
   DISASTER AREA: The scene or location of a natural or military disaster, an
explosion, an aircraft accident, a fire, a railroad accident and a traffic
accident.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle
other than one on official business to follow any emergency vehicle or to
purposely drive to any location where a disaster area exists.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in
section
7-1-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 860, 6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
7-1-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 973, 9-11-2017)
7-1-7: PENALTY; CERTAIN VIOLATIONS ENUMERATED:
   A.   Fine Imposed: Unless otherwise provided, any person, firm or
corporation who violates any provision of this chapter, performs any unlawful
act as defined in this chapter, or fails to perform any act required shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of an offense and shall be fined in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division II of this Code. Each day upon which a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 856, 3-12-2001;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   List Of Violations: The following is a list of traffic violations that
have been adopted by the City Commission, the fines for which shall be as set
out in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division II of this Code:
      1.   Seat belt violation.
      2.   Antinoise ordinance.
      3.   Cutting across private property.
      4.   Depositing or throwing material on roadway.
      5.   Failure to obey traffic control signal.
      6.   Illegal U-turn.
      7.   Improper equipment.
      8.   Parking violations.
      9.   School zone violations.
      10.   Speeding.
      11.   Vehicle license and registration violations.
      12.   Failure to properly use a child car seat.
      13.   Failure to yield to an emergency vehicle.
      14.   Reckless or distracted driving.
      15.   Any other violations of State driving laws.
   C.   Election To Pay Fine To Court Clerk: Persons cited for violation of one
of the traffic regulatory ordinances of the City, other than: 1) an offense
related to the use of alcohol, drugs, or any form of intoxicant; 2) a second
traffic offense within a twelve (12) month period; 3) a driver's license
offense; or 4) an offense punishable by imprisonment, may elect to pay the
maximum fine for said offense to the Court Clerk. (Ord. 850, 12-19-2000; amd.
2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Parking Prohibited; No Signs Required
7-2-3: Obstructing Traffic Prohibited
7-2-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
7-2-5: Parking Time Limits; Prohibitions
7-2-6: Parking On One-Way Roadways
7-2-7: Parking Of Truck-Tractors, Tractors And Vehicles In Excess Of Two Axles
7-2-8: Parking Of Boats, Travel Trailers And Motor Homes On Street
7-2-9: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
MOTOR HOME: A portable or mobile living unit designed or used for human
occupancy and capable of movement under its own power.
TRAVEL TRAILER: Any vehicular portable structure built on a chassis which is
not propelled by its own power but is towed by another vehicle and is used as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use.
TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle of the truck type designed to draw or
support the front end of a semitrailer. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001)
7-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Parking Places: No person shall stop, stand or park a motor
vehicle except when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or ordinance or the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked.
      4.   Within an intersection.
      5.   On a crosswalk. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001)
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk or an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety or construction zone and the adjacent curb or
within thirty feet (30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of
a safety or construction zone, unless the city indicates a different length by
signs or markings. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Driver Restrictions: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as
is unlawful. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001)
7-2-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord. 866, 6-11-
2001)
7-2-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale, washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle
except repairs necessitated by an emergency. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001)
7-2-5: PARKING TIME LIMITS; PROHIBITIONS:
The board of city commissioners, by resolution, is hereby authorized to
establish parking time limits or to prohibit parking on designated streets and
parts of streets by having appropriate signs placed thereon. When such signs
are in place, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in
violation thereof. It shall constitute a separate offense for each continuation
of said time violation. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
7-2-6: PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. The board of
commissioners, by resolution, is authorized to determine when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway
and to have signs or marks placed giving notice thereof. It shall constitute a
separate offense for each continuation of said time violation. (Ord. 866, 6-11-
2001)
7-2-7: PARKING OF TRUCK-TRACTORS, TRACTORS AND VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF TWO AXLES:
   A.   No truck-tractors, tractors, vehicles in excess of two (2) axles, or
any other motor vehicle together with attachments that exceeds twenty two feet
(22') in length shall be parked on any street. If the vehicle is being used to
load and unload persons and material it must be performed in a period of no
more than two (2) hours. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   In no event shall the same be parked within twenty feet (20') of an
intersection, or twenty feet (20') of a private driveway.
   C.   In no event shall said parking be permitted on the opposite side of the
street where there is an obstruction of any kind so that the flow of traffic
may be unobstructed. (Ord. 866, 6-11-2001)
7-2-8: PARKING OF BOATS, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND MOTOR HOMES ON STREET:
No boat, trailer, or motor home shall be parked on the street. (Ord. 866, 6-11-
2001; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2025-004, 3-10-2025)
7-2-9: PENALTY:
Upon conviction for violation of this chapter, the punishment shall be a fine
in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and
fees schedule in appendix A, division II of this code. It shall constitute a
separate offense for each two (2) hour continuation of such parking. (Ord. 866,
6-11-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT PROHIBITIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Streets Defined
7-3-2: Injurious Or Obstructive Vehicles; Oversized Vehicle Permits
7-3-3: Size And Weight Of Vehicles; Truck Routes
7-3-4: Compression Release Brakes Unlawful
7-3-1: STREETS DEFINED:
"Streets" shall mean all streets within the boundaries of the City exclusive of
State and Federal highways. (Ord. 973, 9-11-2017)
7-3-2: INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES; OVERSIZED VEHICLE PERMITS:
   A.   No vehicle or object which injures, or is likely to injure, any street
within the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, shall be driven or moved on any street
within said City.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed or so loaded as to cause, or be likely to cause, a delay in traffic
or constitute a hazard to persons or property, without having obtained an
oversized vehicle permit from the Police Department. Applicants granted
oversized vehicle permits shall pay a fee for each permit.
   C.   In accordance with subsection B of this section, a fee in an amount set
by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division IV of this Code shall be paid prior to the issuance of the
oversized vehicle permit. (Ord. 973, 9-11-2017)
7-3-3: SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   No person shall drive or convey through any City street, not to include
any State or Federal highways, any vehicle other than ordinary private
passenger vehicles or implements of husbandry except when necessary to complete
the scope of work in which the vehicle is engaged. In the event that it is
necessary to use a City street, the route with the smallest amount of usage of
City streets, while still being able to appropriately navigate turns, must be
used. This subsection shall be suspended anytime appropriate detour signs
direct traffic to City streets or if traffic is directed to City streets by law
enforcement personnel.
   B.   In addition to State and Federal highways, the City Manager may
designate certain City streets to be used as truck routes through the City of
Kingfisher. Any designated truck routes shall be exempt from subsection A of
this section and shall have appropriate signage showing the proper route to be
taken.
   C.   Use of a City street in violation of the above paragraphs shall result
in a fine in an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this Code. Although this
fine does include the use of vehicles, it shall not be considered a moving
violation. (Ord. 2019-007, 4-8-2019)
7-3-4: COMPRESSION RELEASE BRAKES UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "compression release type
braking system" shall mean any devices equipped on certain commercial vehicles,
including, but not limited to, tractors, semitrucks, motor carriers and buses
that utilize engine compression release or engine retarders as a means of
slowing or braking the speed of the vehicle in lieu of applying the clutch or
brakes.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: Every driver of any vehicle who shall cause their
vehicle to brake or slow by any method which increases the noise emission
levels of the engine such as, but not limited to, engine compression release or
engine retarder in lieu of applying the clutch or brakes upon any public
streets, roads or highways within the limits of the City, upon conviction
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 886, 10-6-2003; amd. 2013
Code; Ord. 973, 9-11-2017)
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in
section
7-1-7 of this title for each offense. (Ord. 973, 9-11-2017)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
8-1-2: Obstructing Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-3: Interference With Drainage
8-1-4: Playing On Streets Or Sidewalks
8-1-5: Washing Vehicles; Mud And Water Drainage
8-1-6: Allowing Hazardous Conditions On Sidewalks
8-1-7: Railroads Responsible For Street Improvements, Sidewalk Construction
8-1-8: Violations; Penalty
8-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Downtown Area, Tree Maintenance And Removal: It shall be unlawful to
trim or cause to be trimmed, remove or cause to be removed the trees on Main
Street in the downtown area. The city will trim or cause to be trimmed said
trees. (Ord. 820, 9-2-1997; amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Trimming By Owner Or Occupant Of Premises Abutting Street:
      1.   Requirements:
         a.   Owner: The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalk or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys.
         b.   Nonowner: When such premises are occupied by some person other
than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same
manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
         c.   Height Of Branches: Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so
that the lowest branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10')
above the roadway of a street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above
the sidewalk.
      2.   Failure To Trim: Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or
neglects to trim trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection B1 of this
section, after receiving five (5) days' notice from the city manager to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense. Every day that the owner or occupant fails,
refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of
the five (5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense.
   C.   Injuring Trees And Shrubbery: It is unlawful for any person to injure
any tree or shrubbery in a street or alley; provided, that this shall not
prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(2013 Code)
8-1-2: OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Merchandise: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon, or permit to be placed upon, sidewalks, parkways, streets and
alleys any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction and
leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade.
   B.   Interference With Pedestrian Or Vehicular Traffic: It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct sidewalks in any manner so
as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct
streets and alleys in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic
and parking thereon. (2013 Code)
8-1-3: INTERFERENCE WITH DRAINAGE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutter. (2013 Code)
8-1-4: PLAYING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on sidewalks or upon the main traveled
portion of streets and alleys, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (2013
Code)
8-1-5: WASHING VEHICLES; MUD AND WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Washing Vehicles Prohibited: The washing of an automobile or other
vehicle in any street is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Water And Mud Draining From Vehicles: No automobile or other vehicle
shall be washed at any place where the dirt, mud, or other substances removed
therefrom by or during the washing thereof shall drain into or upon any street
or sidewalk.
   C.   Water, Other Liquids From Businesses: It is unlawful for any owner or
operator of a business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow
water, grease, or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any
sidewalk, parking, street, alley or other public way. (2013 Code)
8-1-6: ALLOWING HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS ON SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the
property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(2013 Code)
8-1-7: RAILROADS RESPONSIBLE FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS, SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Street And Alley Improvements:
      1.   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet
(2') on either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street
is to be, or has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as
the board of city commissioners, by motion or resolution, may approve.
      2.   In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with its track or
tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain and grade such alley and
shall surface or pave such alley with the same material which is to be, or has
been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the board
of city commissioners, by motion or resolution, may approve.
      3.   When the tracks of any railway company cross any street that is
being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is
occupied by its track or tracks and two feet (2') on each side, using the same
material as is to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other
satisfactory material as the board of city commissioners, by motion or
resolution, may approve.
      4.   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of one
hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad
company shall grade, gutter, drain and curb the street area between its tracks
and surface or pave such street with the same material which the town is to use
or has used, on the street.
      5.   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
a good state of repair at all times.
   B.   Construction Of Sidewalks:
      1.   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of
way, using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this
is practicable under the circumstances.
      2.   The company shall construct sidewalks on both sides of the streets
when both sides are used by pedestrians.
      3.   The company shall keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at
all times. (2013 Code)
8-1-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be considered misdemeanors, and violators
shall be subject to fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division I of this code.
(2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Curfew For Park
8-2-2: Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages And Low Point Beer
8-2-1: CURFEW FOR PARK:
   A.   Curfew Hours: A curfew is hereby established for all city parks. The
curfew hours are hereby established as after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., the
same to be closed, and the same to be opened at six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   Enforcement: The chief of police is hereby designated as the authority
in control of said park and the enforcement of such curfew regulations.
   C.   Exceptions; Permit Issuance: For special occasions such as fairs,
picnics, organizational gatherings, church groups and any valid or authorized
association or organization, exceptions shall be approved by the city manager.
   D.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined a sum in an amount set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division III of this code. (2013 Code)
8-2-2: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND LOW POINT BEER:
   A.   Definitions: "Alcoholic beverage" shall be defined by 37 Oklahoma
Statutes section 506, and "low point beer" shall be defined by 37 Oklahoma
Statutes section 163.2.
   B.   Consumption Or Possession Prohibited; Exception: No person shall
consume or possess any alcoholic beverage or low point beer upon any and all
public parks dedicated or owned by the city, except as allowed by section
4-1B-5 of this code.
   C.   Separate Offenses: Possession of separate containers of alcoholic
beverages and low point beer shall not be deemed separate offenses of this
section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine in an amount set by the board of commissioners
as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this
code. (Ord. 827, 6-2-1998; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GOLF COURSE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Creation And Management
8-3-1: CREATION AND MANAGEMENT:
   A.   A municipal golf course is hereby created for the city. Management of
the golf course shall be under the control and supervision of the city manager.
   B.   The board of city commissioners may, from time to time at their
discretion, make rules and regulations for the use of such municipal golf
course. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Supervision
8-4-2: Personnel
8-4-3: Budgetary Needs And Recommendations
8-4-4: Fees And Charges
8-4-5: Abandoned Lots Revert To City
8-4-1: SUPERVISION:
The operation and personnel of the cemetery shall be under the supervision and
direction of the city manager who has supervising control. (2013 Code)
8-4-2: PERSONNEL:
The personnel, such as sexton, etc., shall be recommended by the city manager,
and such personnel shall be finally approved by the board of city
commissioners. (2013 Code)
8-4-3: BUDGETARY NEEDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
Budgetary needs and recommendations for improvement and policies and operation
of such cemetery shall be recommended by the city manager. (2013 Code)
8-4-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
Various cemetery related fees and charges shall be in such amounts as set by
the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division IV of this code. (Ord. 925, 4-12-2010; amd. 2013 Code)
8-4-5: ABANDONED LOTS REVERT TO CITY:
All abandoned lots or parts of lots located in any city owned cemeteries shall
revert to the city. An "abandoned lot" is defined as a lot or any part thereof
which has not been used or has not been conveyed in the records of the city
clerk for a period of fifty (50) years. Before any lot or portion thereof shall
be deemed to have been abandoned and to have reverted to the city, the
following procedure must be followed:
   A.   Notice To Deed Holder: A notice shall be prepared naming the last known
cemetery lot deed holder, describing the particular cemetery lot it is alleged
has been abandoned and stating that unless the deed holder, their successors or
assigns, presents the deed or other appropriate evidence of ownership to the
office of the city manager, within ninety (90) days from the date of the first
publication of the notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city, that the cemetery lot or portion thereof will be deemed to be abandoned
and the title to the lot will revert to the city free and clear of any claims,
right or title of the deed holder. Said notice will be published in its
entirety three (3) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city. In addition, the notice will be mailed to the last known
address (if known) of the deed holder.
   B.   Determination Of Abandonment; Sale Or Conveyance: After the ninety (90)
days' prescribed notice has expired, the board of commissioners will then
determine if the lot or portion thereof is to be deemed abandoned. If so, the
city's cemetery records will be amended to reflect that the lot has been
abandoned and the title vested in the city. The city will then have the right
to sell or convey the lot or portion thereof to a new deed holder who will take
title possession free and clear of any right of the previous deed holder or
their heirs, assigns or successors.
   C.   Options Of Lot Owners: In the event that a person presents sufficient
evidence to show they are the rightful owner of the cemetery lot or part
thereof that is in question, they shall have the right to have the records of
the city clerk updated to reflect that they are the current owner of said lot
or parts thereof. Alternatively, if the rightful owner does not desire to use
said cemetery lot or part thereof, they may elect to sell their lots back to
the city for the price originally paid for said lot or parts thereof. This
provision shall not require the city to buy back any cemetery lots or parts
thereof if the city does not choose to do so. (Ord. 942, 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Airport, Property Of City
8-5-3: Operation Of Airport
8-5-4: Zoning Overlay District
8-5-5: Permits And Variances
8-5-6: Administration
8-5-7: Board Of Adjustment
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: The Kingfisher Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: One thousand sixty eight feet (1,068') above mean sea level.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES: See section
8-5-4, "Zoning Overlay District", of this chapter.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment, created and acting under the
powers of this chapter in section
8-5-7 of this chapter.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in these overlay district regulations and shown on the official airport zoning
overlay district map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless
otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural grown, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of these airport zoning
overlay district regulations or an amendment thereto.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or
an area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision
instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in these airport zoning overlay
district regulations.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or government entity, including a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The presently constituted planning and zoning
commission established in accordance with title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the
runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The elevation of any point on
the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the
runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take off of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lies.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90o)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the approach
surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface,
extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally from the
edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90o) angles to the extended
runway centerline.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended for the purpose of operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (2013 Code)
8-5-2: AIRPORT, PROPERTY OF CITY:
   A.   Ordinance 240, adopted November 16, 1999, annexed the land utilized by
the Kingfisher Municipal Airport.
   B.   The airport is the property of the city and under the control,
operation, maintenance and administration of the city.
   C.   The city will enforce existing ordinances and adopt ordinances as
required by the Oklahoma aeronautic and space commission to protect the public
purpose of the Kingfisher Municipal Airport. (2013 Code)
8-5-3: OPERATION OF AIRPORT:
   A.   The operations of the municipal airport shall be the responsibility of
the city commission who has the power to establish fees, rates, deposits,
charges and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
efficient operation of the airport system, including empowerment to enter into
contracts, buy or sell property, and to issue revenue bonds; and to ensure
continued operation of the Kingfisher Municipal Airport.
   B.   Ordinances relating to the municipal airport shall be applicable,
whenever possible. (2013 Code)
8-5-4: ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   District Established; Restrictions:
      1.   District Established: A Kingfisher Municipal Airport zoning district
is hereby established pursuant to the authority conferred by 3 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 100 through 116, as amended.
      2.   Restrictions: The airport zoning district is a superimposition
district within the A-agricultural district; and relates only to the municipal
airport uses. Restrictions are as follows:
         a.   No obstruction that may have potential for endangering the lives
and property of users of the Kingfisher Municipal Airport shall be permitted.
         b.   No obstruction shall be allowed which may affect existing and
future instrument approaches.
         c.   No obstruction shall be permitted which may reduce the size of
areas available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, or that
may tend to destroy or impair the utility of the Kingfisher Municipal Airport.
         d.   The prevention of obstructions shall be accomplished, to the
extent of legal action possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   B.   Official Airport Zoning Overlay Map:
      1.   In order to carry out the provisions of these airport zoning overlay
district regulations, there are hereby created and established certain zones
which include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional
surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical surfaces as they apply to the
Kingfisher Municipal Airport. Such zones as shown on the official airport
zoning overlay map of the city are hereby incorporated as if included within
these airport zoning overlay district regulations.
      2.   An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
         a.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two
hundred fifty feet (250') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to
a width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
         b.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone: The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly
to a width of two thousand feet (2,000') at a horizontal distance five thousand
feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of
the centerline of the runway.
         c.   Transitional Zones: Transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
         d.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of five thousand feet (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the
primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing
lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach
and transitional zones.
         e.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
   C.   Height Limitations: Except as otherwise provided in these airport
zoning overlay district regulations, no structure shall be erected, altered, or
maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by these
airport zoning overlay district regulations to a height in excess of the
applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such applicable
height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as
follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zones: Slopes twenty feet (20')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand
feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Utility Runway Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zones: Slopes twenty
feet (20') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      3.   Transitional Zones: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation which is one thousand two hundred
eighteen feet (1,218') above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending to where they intersect at the conical surface.
      4.   Horizontal Zones: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the airport elevation.
      5.   Conical Zones: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') (elevation above the airport elevation of 1,218 feet) and extending to a
height of three hundred fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation
(elevation 1,418 feet).
      6.   Expected Height Limitations: Nothing in these airport zoning overlay
district regulations shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or
maintenance of any structure, or the growth of any tree to a height of fifty
feet (50') above the surface of the land.
   D.   Additional Use Restrictions: Notwithstanding any other provisions of
these airport zoning overlay district regulations, no use may be made of land
or water within any zone established by these airport zoning overlay district
regulations in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any
way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.
   E.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The requirements prescribed by these
airport zoning overlay district regulations shall not be construed to require
the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration of any structure or tree
not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date hereof, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein
shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of
any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date hereof, and is diligently prosecuted.
      2.   Marking And Lighting: The owner of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and
maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by
the Kingfisher planning and zoning commission, to indicate to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstructions. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the city. (2013 Code)
8-5-5: PERMITS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   Future Uses:
         a.   Any material change in the use of the land.
         b.   The construction of any structure.
         c.   The planting of trees.
      2.   Application For Permit; Determination: Each application for permit
shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use,
structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such
determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for
use inconsistent with the provisions of these airport zoning overlay district
regulations shall be granted unless a variance of these airport zoning overlay
district regulations has been approved.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   No permit shall be required within:
            (1)   The area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone for any structure or tree less than seventy five feet (75') of the
vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographical features, such structure or tree would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones;
            (2)   Areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of no less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway. That is, no permit shall be required for any
structure or tree less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above
the ground, except when such structures or tree would extend above the height
limit prescribed for such approach zones; and
            (3)   Areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone. That is, no permit shall be required for
any structure or tree less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such structure or tree, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographical features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
         b.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by these airport zoning overlay district regulations.
   B.   Permits For Certain Improvements:
      1.   Existing Uses: A permit would automatically be denied for the
enlargement of any obstruction, nonconforming land use, nonconforming structure
use, nonconforming structure, tree, or anything that would become a greater
hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date hereof.
      2.   Permits Required: In order to assure safety, health and welfare of
all concerned, permits are required for the following: removal of nonconforming
uses and structures, abandoned structures, or dilapidated structures in order
to administer the proper application in consonance with the airport zoning
overlay district regulations.
   C.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or allow the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in these airport zoning overlay district
regulations, may apply to the board of adjustment for a variance from such
regulations.
      2.   The application for a variance shall be accompanied by a
determination from the federal aviation administration as to the effect of the
proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe and
efficient use of navigable airspace.
      3.   Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial
justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of these airport zoning
overlay district regulations.
      4.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
these airport zoning overlay district regulations may be considered by the
board of adjustment unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the
Kingfisher planning and zoning commission for advice as to the aeronautical
effect of the variance. If the planning and zoning commission does not respond
to the application within forty five (45) days after receipt, the board of
adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said application. (2013 Code)
8-5-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city manager or his designee to administer
and enforce the airport zoning overlay district regulations prescribed herein.
   B.   An application for permits or variances shall be made to the city clerk
on a form published for that purpose.
   C.   Applications shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission
for consideration and proper action. The planning and zoning commission may
require that public hearings be conducted if applicable. The planning and
zoning commission, upon review and discussion of the information and data
furnished on the application, may approve or deny the application. (2013 Code)
8-5-7: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
The board of adjustment is authorized to hear the appeal and make a decision on
the appeal in accordance with the limitations established in the official
Kingfisher zoning ordinance and these airport zoning overlay district
regulations. (2013 Code)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES, RATES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Kingfisher Public Works Authority
9-1-2: Utility Systems Provided; Use And Operation
9-1-3: Application For Service; Deposit; Rates
9-1-4: Fees, Rates And Charges
9-1-5: Billing And Collection
9-1-6: Use Of Income
9-1-7: Purchase Or Acquisition Of Property
9-1-8: Access To Meters
9-1-9: Placement Of Electrical Meters For Residential Properties
9-1-10: Utility Credit Agreement
9-1-1: KINGFISHER PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Kingfisher Public Works Authority was set up under existing State
law, which allows a trust to be formed for a specific purpose, generally for
utilities, for the use and benefit of the City.
   B.   Any resolution of the Trustees of the Kingfisher Public Works Authority
which relates to charges for water when delivered through meters and sewer
service and setting out rules and regulations for efficient operation and
control of the water system, sewerage system, electric power system and solid
waste collection and disposal services is hereby approved and shall be made a
part of this chapter. (2013 Code)
9-1-2: UTILITY SYSTEMS PROVIDED; USE AND OPERATION:
   A.   Systems Provided:
      1.   The City provides electric, water, sewerage and solid waste services
for the residents of the City.
      2.   Electric, water, sewerage services and solid waste collection and
disposal are operated through the Kingfisher Public Works Authority, a
Municipal trust of which the City is the beneficiary; said trust shall have
control over the operation, maintenance and administration of said systems and
services.
   B.   Use Of, And Connection To Systems:
      1.   Every residential inhabitant within the corporate limits of the
city, and every commercial or business entity or enterprise who may practically
do so, shall secure all of its utility service requirements from the Kingfisher
Public Works Authority owned by the city, except:
         a.   That persons and entities in lands zoned as agriculture shall not
be required to use the city water system; or
         b.   Persons then residing or operating business on land that is
annexed into the city limits shall be grandfathered; and therefore, have a
choice between their existing provider or Kingfisher Electric.
            (1)   The above section limited in scope, as new developments on
annexed land shall be required to utilize Kingfisher Electric per Section
12-4-11 of the city code.
   C.   Operation Of Systems:
      1.   The operations of the Municipal electric power system, water system,
sewerage system, and solid waste collection and disposal service shall be the
responsibility of the Kingfisher Public Works Authority; said authority shall
have the power to establish fees, rates, deposits, charges and such other rules
and regulations as may be necessary for the efficient operation of these
systems, including empowerment to enter into contracts, buy or sell property,
and to issue revenue bonds.
      2.   The Public Works Authority shall have the authority to establish
fees, charges and operational procedures and regulations as may be necessary
for efficient operation of the utility systems, and to ensure continued
operation of the Kingfisher Public Works Authority, or any other trust of which
the City is a member, participant or beneficiary.
      3.   Administrative processes for all systems may be combined for more
efficient operation, at the discretion of the City Commission and the
Kingfisher Public Works Authority Board.
      4.   Ordinances relating to these Municipal utility systems shall be
applicable, whenever possible. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-003, 2-11-2020)
9-1-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT; RATES:
   A.   Application For Service: Any person desiring the use of utility
services shall make application in writing to the City Clerk, which application
shall set out the location of the property, and the purpose for which the
utility service is to be used, in the approximate amount to be used per month
if ascertainable. Such application must be signed by the consumer or his or her
agent and shall be approved by the city clerk. Applicants shall be advised of
all required deposits. (2013 Code)
   B.   Deposit Requirements:
      1.   Disposition Of Deposit: The city shall retain the deposit until such
time as service is terminated and final bill is satisfied. When service is
terminated, the customer shall have the option to apply the deposit to the
final bill and pay any charges in excess of the deposit or receive the balance
of the deposit above that which is owed. The customer may pay the total amount
of the final bill and receive a refund of the total deposit or leave the
deposit on file for future service connections. In the event the service bill
becomes delinquent, the deposit will be applied to the delinquent bill and a
new deposit will be required before service will be reinstated.
      2.   Residential:
         a.   Residential electric and other utility deposits for satisfactory
or unsatisfactory service shall be in such amounts as set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this code. Unsatisfactory credit is deemed to be any previous
unpaid balance to the city.
         b.   Residential customers with satisfactory credit shall not be
required to post a deposit for any additional residential services that are
connected in excess of one active deposit. If a customer has more than one
residential deposit, the larger of the deposits shall be retained and the
smaller or additional deposits shall be refunded upon written request of the
customer. In the event that any customer's account becomes delinquent, the
deposit held in that customer's name will be applied to the delinquent account.
At this time, a new deposit will be required to continue receiving utilities
and services from the city. Failure to post the required deposit within three
(3) business days will result in the termination of service until such time as
the required deposit is posted.
      3.   Commercial:
         a.   All commercial or nonresidential customers shall be required to
post a deposit in such amount as set by the board of commissioners as provided
in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code.
         b.   A commercial customer with satisfactory credit shall not be
required to post a deposit for any additional commercial services that are
connected in excess of one active deposit. Provided, however, the deposit
required for any commercial service shall be an amount equal to the deposit for
the largest commercial account in the customer's name; if a customer has more
than one commercial deposit, the larger of the deposits shall be retained and
the smaller or additional deposits shall be refunded upon written request of
the customer. In the event that any customer's account becomes delinquent, the
deposit held in the customer's name will be applied to the delinquent account.
At that time, a new deposit will be required to continue receiving utilities
and services from the city. Failure to post the required deposit within three
(3) business days will result in the termination of service until such time as
the required deposit is posted.
         c.   A commercial customer with unsatisfactory credit shall be
required to post a deposit for each commercial account in said customer's
control until such time as satisfactory credit is established. Satisfactory
credit can be established by paying the customer's bill for a period of twelve
(12) months without being late on payment during that period. At such time as
satisfactory credit is established, a customer shall be entitled to the
provisions of the satisfactory credit policy. (Ord. 831, 8-4-1998; amd. 2013
Code)
   C.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   New Customers: A deposit at the current rate charged for new
customers will be imposed when the following occurs:
         a.   The occupancy of a property changes from one person to another,
except where the owner of the property is responsible for utility services.
         b.   When the person accepting responsibility for paying the service
is changed.
         c.   The Kingfisher public works authority, for nonpayment and/or
tampering, has disconnected the utility meter.
         d.   When utility service is discontinued for any reason.
      2.   Additional Deposit: An additional deposit will be imposed when the
Kingfisher public works authority has disconnected the utility service more
than once in a twelve (12) month period. The amount of the additional deposit
shall be the highest monthly utility service charge within a twelve (12) month
period or the current deposit rate, whichever is greater. (Ord. 845, 9-18-2000;
amd. Ord. 847, 10-17-2000; 2013 Code)
   D.   Requirements Related To Distributed Generation And Behind The Meter
Energy Production:
      1.   Prior to any person or entity installing equipment intended for
power generation that will be placed behind an electric meter owned by the City
of Kingfisher or its authorities, an application must be filed with the City of
Kingfisher, or its designee, requesting permission to install such equipment.
      2.   Prior to receiving a permit for the installation of distributed
generation equipment, the customer must agree to allow the City or its agent to
inspect the property and connections of all equipment during the installation
of said equipment and thereafter while said equipment is connected to a system
owned by the City of Kingfisher or one of its authorities. Further, it must be
agreed that all installation, construction and interconnections will be in
compliance with the International Building Codes and standards most recently
adopted by the City of Kingfisher.
      3.   Any person who does not file an application and receive a permit
prior to beginning construction of any distributed generation equipment shall
be guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine in an amount set by the
Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division III of this Code. Each day of continued violation shall give rise
to an additional charge. (Ord. 969, 8-14-2017)
9-1-4: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges: Various rates and charges for utility and electric
services shall be in such amounts as set by the Board of Commissioners as
provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this
Code. Said rates shall be adjusted annually on July 1 in an amount equal to the
change in the Consumer Price Index for all items as set by the United States
Bureau of Labor Statistics, unless another amount is specifically approved by
the Board of Commissioners. Notice will be sent out to customers noting the
pending rate change with utility bills sent out in May of each year. (2013
Code; amd. Ord. 2024-004, 5-13-2024)
   B.   Payment Of Cost For Tampering With Utility Equipment: If it has been
determined that a utility service customer has tampered with utility equipment
owned by the Kingfisher Public Works Authority, including communication
equipment for the Automated Metering Infrastructure System, the customer shall
be charged the cost of repairing and/or replacing the damaged equipment.
Utility services shall not be reconnected until the amount of the repair and/or
replacement has been remitted to the Kingfisher Public Works Authority. Any
additional fines for tampering with utility equipment shall be in such amounts
as set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule
in appendix A, division I of this Code. (Ord. 2018-014, 10-9-2018)
9-1-5: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
Billing responsibility and procedure shall be as follows:
   A.   The collection of all utility accounts shall be in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   B.   The City Clerk shall have the direct responsibility of billing all
consumers on such forms as may be designated and shall become delinquent
fifteen (15) days after the issuance thereof.
   C.   The City Clerk shall have the authority to direct any meter or meters
be disconnected where the utility accounts are delinquent. (2013 Code)
9-1-6: USE OF INCOME:
Income shall benefit the City and all safeguards required for City officers and
employees shall apply. (2013 Code)
9-1-7: PURCHASE OR ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY:
Any and all properties owned, acquired or leased by the Kingfisher Public Works
Authority shall be treated the same as if they were owned by the City,
including all requirements and stipulations for bidding and construction. (2013
Code)
9-1-8: ACCESS TO METERS:
   A.   Employees of the City and/or Kingfisher Public Works Authority shall be
given unencumbered access to all utility meters. Access to said meters shall
not be through any sort of locked fence or gate, nor shall said meters be in
any area not separated from any guard or vicious dog, or other vicious animal;
meaning that if said dog, or other animal, is fenced in a back yard, City
employees shall have access to said meter in an area not shared by said dog.
   B.   If access to said meters is encumbered in any way, including by dogs,
the City and/or the Kingfisher Public Works Authority shall notify said
customer by regular mail to correct the same within thirty (30) days. If said
corrections are not completed, the City shall have the right to correct the
same and bill the costs to said customer on its regular utility billing. (2013
Code)
9-1-9: PLACEMENT OF ELECTRICAL METERS FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:
   A.   Electric meters for residential properties shall be placed on the
structure and that is to be supplied with electrical service. In platted
additions to the City of Kingfisher where electrical service has been set at
pedestals installed by the City of Kingfisher, the owner of the property shall
have the option to set their electrical point of service at either the pedestal
already installed on their property or on the structure as described above.
   B.   Connection from City or Kingfisher Public Works Authority owned
infrastructure to the electrical point of service shall be conducted by the
City of Kingfisher or a contractor chosen by the City. (Ord. 955, 4-13-2015)
9-1-10: UTILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT:
Any customer with its own distributed generation service can apply to the City,
or its authorities, requesting to enter into an agreement to purchase any
unconsumed electricity that customer has generated. The City, or its
authorities, shall have the sole discretion to determine whether to enter into
such agreement. Any energy purchased pursuant to this agreement, shall be
purchased at the energy only portion of the cost at the wholesale rate from
current power purchased. An application fee in an amount set by the Board of
Commissioners is provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this Code. (Ord. 969, 8-14-2017)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM AND SUPPLY
SECTION:
9-2-1: Use Of Municipal Water System
9-2-2: Management And Supervision
9-2-3: Water Rates, Fees And Charges
9-2-4: Tampering With Or Injuring Municipal Water System
9-2-5: Water Shortage; Authority To Ration
9-2-6: Water Supply Wells
9-2-1: USE OF MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Required: Owners of any property that is within the City
limits shall be required to connect to the Municipal water system if any
portion of said property is located within three hundred feet (300') of a
current Municipal water line. Connections shall be allowed as hereinafter set
out. The fee for filing an application for a water tap permit for use within
the City of Kingfisher and for the installation thereof shall be in an amount
set by the Board of Commissions and shall be set out in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code. (Ord. 952, 8-11-2014)
   B.   Connection From Outside City: New connections to the Municipal water
system from property lying outside the Municipal boundaries of the City of
Kingfisher are only allowed upon written application approved by the Board of
Trustees for the Kingfisher Public Works Authority. An exception to this will
be made if it is determined, at the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees,
that a significantly beneficial economic impact will be made by authorizing
said water service and that the addition of said service will not create a
significant adverse impact on the water system. A significantly beneficial
economic impact shall exist where it is determined that there is a high
likelihood of numerous jobs being created by the applicant of said service or
there is a high likelihood of significant economic development that benefits
the City and its citizens.
   C.   Use Of Water Wells:
      1.   Owners of property within the City limits, other than land zoned as
agricultural, which is within three hundred feet (300') of a current Municipal
water line or is within three hundred feet (300') of a planned water line to be
constructed within five (5) years of the date of application, shall not be
allowed to establish a private well.
      2.   In an area where a water well would be allowed, an owner shall
obtain a permit authorizing the use of said water well. If the property is
zoned as agricultural, no fee shall be assessed. The fee for a permit
authorizing the use of a water well shall be in an amount set by the Board of
Commissioners and shall be set out in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division IV of this Code.
   D.   Application And Payment Of Fee: No unauthorized person shall make any
connections with any Municipal water line without first having made application
therefor to the City Clerk, and without first having paid the established fee.
   E.   Rural Water District: The requirements of this section shall not apply
to persons currently being served directly by an existing rural water district.
(Ord. 952, 8-11-2014; amd. Ord. 970, 8-14-2017; Ord. 2024-004, 5-13-2024)
9-2-2: MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION:
The City water system shall be placed and is under the direction of the City
Manager. (2013 Code)
9-2-3: WATER RATES, FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates Established: Rates for water main taps and water usage shall be
in such amounts as set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines
and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code. Said rates shall be
adjusted annually on July 1 in an amount equal to the change in the Consumer
Price Index for all items as set by the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics, unless another amount is specifically approved by the Board of
Commissioners. Notice will be sent out to customers noting the pending rate
change with utility bills sent out in May of each year.
   B.   Basis For Determination: The purchase for sale or consumption of water
shall be based upon the cost of supply, treatment, storage, distribution,
maintenance, operation, management, retirement of indebtedness, as well as the
beneficial aspects of providing potable water for the citizens of the City.
(Ord. 835, 3-2-1999; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2024-004, 5-13-2024)
9-2-4: TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way tamper
with, any portion of the Municipal water system, or to turn the water off or on
from any main at any time or place, unless said person is duly authorized so to
do by the Kingfisher Public Works Authority. (2013 Code)
9-2-5: WATER SHORTAGE; AUTHORITY TO RATION:
   A.   Authority To Ration; Notice To Public:
      1.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make declarations for water
rationing without the approval of the Board of Commissioners. Any declaration
is subject to removal by a vote of the Board of Commissioners but shall stay in
effect until said vote actually occurs.
      2.   If the City Manager should determine it is necessary to ration
water, the City Manager must post notice of such declaration of such rationing
on the doors of City Hall and must also notify a newspaper of general
circulation within the City. Notice may also be given by any other means deemed
appropriate.
   B.   Noncompliance Prohibited: No person shall act in a manner inconsistent
with any announced mandatory water rationing. (Ord. 936, 8-8-2011)
9-2-6: WATER SUPPLY WELLS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   In order to protect the City water supply and the financial security
of the Municipal water supply system, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to have or drill a new water well within the corporate limits of
the City without first having obtained a permit. Approval of the permit is
subject to agreement to the following conditions:
         a.   The well to be drilled must be on land zoned as agriculture or it
must be impractical to serve said land with Municipal utilities;
         b.   That there be no resale of water obtained from any well;
         c.   Water from any well drilled in the City shall be for use only by
the individual property owner drilling said water well;
         d.   No cross connections shall be allowed to any component of the
Municipal water system, including water lines, on private property, which are
connected to the Municipal water system; and
         e.   Wells shall meet all local, County and State Department of Health
requirements.
      2.   No fee shall be assessed for obtaining a permit.
   B.   Protection Requirements: For the protection of the water supply wells
of the City, specific protective requirements are provided by each lease
agreement for those well sites along the Cimarron River located north of the
City in Kingfisher County.
   C.   Applicable Regulations Extended To Water Supply Locations:
      1.   Appropriate provisions of the police power of the City are hereby
extended over all water utility sites and utility lines embraced as water
supply, and it is hereby declared that the jurisdiction of the City in the
fullest degree comfortable to law extends over, and applies to, such sites for
the protection of the health of the City's residents and the purity of the City
water supply.
      2.   All rules and regulations of the City, County and State Health
Departments and authorities now in force are hereby extended over, applied to,
and shall have full force and effect related to the water utility sites and
utility lines. All such rules and regulations that may be lawfully made in the
future shall extend over, and have the same effect related to, these water
utility sites and utility lines.
   D.   Pollution Of Water Supply Unlawful: Pollution of water supply is
unlawful in accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 37-115.
   E.   Action For Damages: The City shall have the right of action for damages
resulting from pollution of its water supply. The measure of damages shall be
the amount which will compensate for the detriment caused thereby, whether it
could have been anticipated or not. Where such pollution is continued for a
period of six (6) months or more, the injury shall be regarded as permanent.
(2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: New Sewers And Connections
9-3-2: User Rates And Charges
9-3-3: Prohibited Discharges
9-3-4: Sewer Use In Meeker Addition
9-3-5: Sanitary Facilities Required
9-3-6: Industrial Users
9-3-7: Penalties
9-3-1: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Building Sewer Connection: The connection of all building sewers into
the public sewer lines shall conform to the requirements of the building and
plumbing codes adopted by, and the other applicable rules and regulations of,
the city.
   B.   Sewage Works Construction:
      1.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the city and the state department of health
regulations.
      2.   Any industrial use system shall comply with U.S. environmental
protection agency and state regulations, as amended, including any pretreatment
and removal of toxic substances, reduction or removal of wastes which may
overload or impair operation of the wastewater treatment system.
   C.   Mandatory Connection: When a public sewer becomes available within
three hundred feet (300'), the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer
within sixty (60) days of completion of said sewer.
   D.   Connection Charges: Connection charges shall be assessed by the city/
Kingfisher public works authority for all new connections to the public sewer
in such amounts as set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines
and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code. (2013 Code)
9-3-2: USER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   User Charges:
      1.   Basis: All users of the wastewater collection and treatment system
shall be charged per metered unit of water billed monthly, based on average
monthly usage during December, January, and February. Said average water usage
shall be calculated each March and used to determine the sewer charge for each
customer for the next twelve (12) months beginning with the March billing. In
the case of users not on a metered basis and new customers for which no
previous usage history is available, the city shall establish an estimated
water consumption based on a comparison of the non-metered or new customer with
a metered customer of similar class. As an example, a new customer comprising a
family of four (4) would be compared with a typical family of four (4) to
establish a basis for estimating water consumption. If there is no associated
water meter to calculate usage from, a set rate will be charged.
      2.   Rates Established: Sewer rates (based on units of water usage) shall
be in such amounts as set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code. Said rates
shall be adjusted annually on July 1 in an amount equal to the change in the
Consumer Price for all items as set by the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics, unless another amount is specifically approved by the board of
commissioners. Notice will be sent out to customers noting the pending rate
change with utility bills sent out in May of each year.
   B.   User Charge Schedule: As the BOD, suspended solids, and other pollutant
concentrations discharged shall be approximately equal for all domestic users,
such users shall be charged on a volume basis in accordance with the following
formula:
Cu = Cb + Ct/Vt (Vu)
Symbols and definitions:
Cu = A user's charge per month for sewer service.
Cb = The user's share of the monthly costs not related to operation,
maintenance and replacement, i.e., capital expenditure, debt service costs,
fixed overhead, etc.
Ct = Total annual operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs for the
wastewater collection and treatment system.
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per year.
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per month.
   C.   Excessive Strength Charges: For any user, when the measured BOD exceeds
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l), the measured suspended
solids exceed two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l), or when other
pollutant concentrations exceed the range of concentrations of these pollutants
in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall be added to the basic charge. This
surcharge shall be calculated by the following formula:
Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD).
B = Concentration of BOD from a user which exceeds 250 mg/l.
Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS).
S = Concentration of SS from a user which exceeds 250 mg/l.
Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant.
P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user which exceeds the range of
concentrations found in normal domestic sewage.
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time, i.e., monthly.
   D.   Review And Revision: The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed every
year with respect to the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the
total costs of the operation, maintenance and replacement of the sewer system,
and its approved user charge schedule. The charges for users or user classes
shall be revised to accomplish the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs among users and user classes.
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation, maintenance
and replacement costs necessary to the proper continued operation of the
wastewater collection and treatment system.
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and
adjust rates accordingly.
      4.   Revenues generated by the wastewater collection and treatment system
from the sale of sludges, salvaged materials, crops harvested or lands leased
shall be used to offset the costs for OM&R. Rates for all users shall be
reduced proportional to usage.
   E.   Toxic Pollutants Charges: Each user that discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge of the treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
   F.   Notification: Each user shall be notified at least annually, in
conjunction with the regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the
user charges which are attributable to wastewater collection and treatment
services. Costs shall be broken down to show the operation, maintenance and
replacement costs attributable to that user.
   G.   Charges For Extraneous Flows: The costs of operation and maintenance
for all flows not directly attributable to users (such as infiltration/inflow)
shall be distributed among users on the same basis as operation and maintenance
charges.
   H.   Records: A recordkeeping system shall be established and maintained by
the city clerk to document compliance with federal regulations pertaining to
the user charge in subsection
9-3-6B of this chapter, as may be amended from time to time.
   I.   Precedence Of User Charge System: The user charge system shall take
precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between the
city/Kingfisher public works authority and any of the users which are
inconsistent with applicable federal regulations regarding user charge systems.
(Ord. 834, 3-2-199; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2024-004, 5-13-2024)
9-3-3: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Types Of Discharges Prohibited: No person may discharge to public
sewers any waste which, by itself or by interaction with other wastes, may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities.
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   B.   New Connections Prohibited: Any new connections from inflow sources
into the sanitary sewer portions of the sewer shall be prohibited.
   C.   Site Not Connected To City System: Any waste material from a site that
is not connected through the city sewer system is prohibited from being
discharged into the system.
   D.   Regulate Present And Future Discharges: It is the intention of the city
to regulate present and future industrial wastewater, which may be discharged
by a user of the facilities. Wastewater introduced into the facilities shall
contain no toxic or other pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger
public safety or the physical integrity of the treatment works, or cause
violation of effluent or water quality limitations, or preclude the use of the
most cost effective wastewater treatment and sludge disposal system. (2013
Code)
9-3-4: SEWER USE IN MEEKER ADDITION:
When the public sewer becomes available, in Meeker Addition, within three
hundred feet (300') of any existing septic tank, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days after it has been determined
that any existing septic tank does not meet the requirements of the Oklahoma
state department of health or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city for the health and safety of the public. (Ord. 824, 12-16-1997; amd. 2013
Code)
9-3-5: SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   Facilities Required: Every owner of a residence or other building in
which humans reside, are employed or congregate shall install, equip and
maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement. This
requirement shall include a sanitary water closet or a water closet connected
to an approved septic tank.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: All facilities for the disposal of human excrement
in a manner different from that required by this code, and all privies and
closets so constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public
health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with, and
abated, as such. (2013 Code)
9-3-6: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Terms Defined: As used in this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CITY: The city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM: The sanitary sewerage system that is operated by the city
or by any trust or entity for the city.
      2.   Abbreviations: As used in this section, the following abbreviations
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand, as that term is employed by sanitary sewer
engineers, and shall be determined by a five (5) day test of composite sampling
at a temperature of twenty degrees centigrade (20oC).
   IC: A charge in terms of dollars that is assessed or taxed against
industries using or connected to the sewer system.
   SS: Suspended solids of industrial waste in a composite sampling.
   V: The volume of flow of industrial waste in units of seven hundred fifty
(750) gallons.
   B.   Industrial User Charge: Each industrial user connected to, or using,
the sewerage system mentioned in this section shall pay to the city or to the
entity operating the said sewer system, in addition to other charges properly
made, a monthly charge, designated as IC, which is in terms of dollars and
shall be computed by the following formula:
      IC equals 0.07V plus 0.04(BOD) plus 0.02(SS)
   C.   Industrial User Requirements: In addition to the user charge in
subsection B of this section, each industrial user which contributed thirty
percent (30%) or more of the total volume of the municipally treated wastes
shall make substantial prepayment for capital investments required to treat the
wastes. The amount of such payment to be required from such industrial user
shall be determined by the board of city commissioners at a hearing on the
matter, of which hearing the industrial user shall have been given at least
five (5) days' written notice. The industrial user shall have the right to be
present at the hearing and to be represented by counsel and to present evidence
pertaining to the matter that is to be determined.
   D.   Discharge Of Wastes: No user of the city sewerage system shall
discharge waste into such sewerage system containing the following named
substances in greater quantities or amounts measured in parts per million (ppm)
than the ppm hereinafter shown opposite the name of each of such substance:
Substance ppm
Substance       ppm
Antimony        0.01
Arsenic         0.05
Barium          5.00
Beryllium       0.01
Bismuth         0.05
Boron           1.00
Cadmium         0.02
Chromium (Hexa) 0.05
Chromium (Tn)   5.00
Cobalt          1.00
Copper          1.00
Iron            0.30
Lead            0.10
Manganese       1.00
Mercury         0.005
Molybdenum      1.00
Nickel          1.00
Phenols         0.005
Rhenium         0.02
Selenium        0.02
Silver          0.10
Strontium       0.00
Tellurium       0.00
Til             0.10
Uranylion       5.00
Zinc            5.00
 
   E.   Discharge Requirements: Users of the sewerage system shall limit the
discharge of industrial waste into such system to levels that will not
adversely affect the operation of the system or the waste treatment facilities
and will meet current and future state water quality standards applicable to
the city. To comply with this provision, the city may require the user to
pretreat the industrial waste before discharging it into the sewerage system.
   F.   Authority Regarding Violations: As to any industrial user violating the
provisions of this section, the city or the public works authority operating
the sewerage system may disconnect the user's facility or plant from the
sewerage system. Alternatively, the city or public works authority may apply to
the proper court of the state for an injunction to prohibit such violation.
(2013 Code)
9-3-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, is punishable by a fine in an
amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule pursuant to appendix A, division I of this code for each act of
violation and for each day of violation.
   B.   Other Criminal And Civil Remedies: In addition to proceeding under
authority of subsection A of this section, the city is entitled to pursue all
other criminal and civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of
statutes or other ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   C.   Right To Terminate Service: The city reserves the right to terminate
service to any customer that discharges any prohibited wastes into the sewer
system. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Collection And Disposal Declared A Municipal Function
9-4-3: Solid Waste Collection Rates
9-4-3-1: City Convenience Center
9-4-4: Collection Of Materials
9-4-5: Use Of Receptacles (Rep. by Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
9-4-6: Use Of Citizen Collection Station
9-4-7: Hauling Or Depositing Of Garbage; Permit; Prohibited Acts
9-4-8: Dumping Garbage Into Container Belonging To Another
9-4-9: Prohibited Garbage Disposal
9-4-10: Violations; Penalties
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
CITY: The City of Kingfisher.
GARBAGE: Shall be defined by its common definition and shall be deemed to
include "refuse", "trash" and "rubbish" as understood by their common
definitions.
LITTER: "Garbage", as defined herein, and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
SOLID WASTE: Includes all putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or
semisolid form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes
or incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes and
hazardous wastes (including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicide and pesticide wastes). (2013 Code)
9-4-2: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DECLARED A MUNICIPAL FUNCTION:
The collection, regulation and disposal of solid waste is a function of the
City. In addition, the City may collect and dispose of refuse, as it deems
necessary. (2013 Code)
9-4-3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION RATES:
The various solid waste collection rates shall be in such amounts as set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division IV of this Code. Said rates shall be adjusted annually on July 1 in
an amount equal to the change in the Consumer Price for all items as set by the
United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, unless another amount is specifically
approved by the board of commissioners. Notice will be sent out to customers
noting the pending rate change with utility bills sent out in May of each year.
(2013 Code; amd. Ord. 946, 7-8-2013; Ord. 2020-008, 4-13-2020; Ord. 2024-004,
5-13-2024)
9-4-3-1: CITY CONVENIENCE CENTER:
   A.   The City Convenience Center provides for recyclables, green waste, and
excess residential solid waste and bulky items for City solid waste customers.
Prohibited items include, but are not limited to, tires, batteries, paints,
appliances with freon, liquids, radioactive materials, volatile materials,
highly flammable materials, explosive materials or toxic materials and will not
be accepted. The City Convenience Center serves the needs of residential
customers for occasional excess or bulky waste that does not fit in the
polycart. The City Convenience Center will not accept any loose items other
than those that are too large to place in a fifty-five (55) gallon bag. The
City of Kingfisher reserves the right to refuse service for oversized loads too
large for the containers and commercial sanitation. The rates that apply to
users of the City Convenience Center shall be in the amounts set by the board
of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule pursuant to
appendix A, division IV of this Code.
   B.   The City Convenience Center does not serve the occasional excess or
bulky waste needs of commercial customers. Commercial customers should contact
City Hall for a list of roll-off vendors. (Ord. 2019-006, 3-11-2019; amd. Ord.
2021-005, 7-12-2021; Ord. 2021-006, 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-007, 9-13-2021)
9-4-4: COLLECTION OF MATERIALS:
The owner or occupant of all premises in the City shall be governed by the
terms of any solid waste contract entered into by the City. (Ord. 949, 9-9-
2013)
9-4-5: USE OF RECEPTACLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 949, 9-9-2013)
9-4-6: USE OF CITIZEN COLLECTION STATION:
   A.   Use Restricted To City Employees: No person shall be authorized to
disturb any solid waste deposited on the Citizen Collection Station or any part
thereof, or be allowed to take away or otherwise disturb any solid waste
deposited on such grounds, or be authorized to burn or otherwise destroy such
solid waste other than regular employees of the City.
   B.   Permission For Use Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
enter upon such Citizen Collection Station of the City or area where solid
waste is contained without express permission from an officer of the Sanitation
Department.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to fine in an amount set by the
Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division I of this Code. (2013 Code; amd. Ord. 2021-005, 7-12-2021; Ord.
2021-006, 8-9-2021)
9-4-7: HAULING OR DEPOSITING OF GARBAGE; PERMIT; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Permit Required For Hauling Or Depositing:
      1.   No person shall, without first securing a written permit from the
City, dump or deposit any manure, garbage, litter, offal matter, rubbish,
debris, trash, junk, refuse or similar material on any public or private
property for the purpose either of filling low ground or disposing of the
materials, or for any purpose whatsoever.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the otherwise lawful
hauling and dumping of dirt, sand, rock and gravel for landfill purposes.
   B.   Dumping On Property Of Another: It shall be unlawful for any person to
dump, deposit, throw or in any manner leave or abandon any garbage, litter,
offal matter, rubbish, debris, trash, junk, refuse or similar material on any
property owned or occupied by another person without the written permission of
the owner or occupant of such property.
   C.   Violation; Prima Facie Proof, Registered Owner: In any prosecution
charging a violation of this section, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint or citation was used for the purpose of unlawfully
hauling or dumping of material as prohibited therein together with proof that
the individual named in the complaint or citation was at the time of the
violation the registered owner of said vehicle shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption that the registered owner of said vehicle was the
person who committed the violation.
   D.   Proof Of Person Committing Unlawful Disposal Of Materials: In any
prosecution charging a violation of this section, proof that unlawfully
disposed of material as described therein which contains three (3) or more
items bearing a common address in a form which tends to identify the latest
owner of the items shall be prima facie presumption that all competent persons
residing at such address committed the unlawful act of disposal; provided, that
one of the said items of solid waste bears a date subsequent to the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 869, 9-10-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-006, 8-9-2021)
9-4-8: DUMPING GARBAGE INTO CONTAINER BELONGING TO ANOTHER:
   A.   Offense: Any person who, without authorization, dumps garbage, trash,
or other refuse, or assists in the unauthorized dumping of garbage, trash, or
other refuse, in a dumpster or other solid waste container which is rented,
leased or otherwise owned or maintained by another person, business, entity or
firm shall be guilty of an offense against the City.
   B.   Exclusion: The act of throwing isolated objects into a dumpster or
other solid waste container in the prevention or elimination of litter is
specifically exempted from any penalties under this section. (Ord. 920, 11-10-
2008)
   C.   Violation; Fine: Any person convicted of an offense under this section
shall be subject to a fine, per offense, in an amount set by the Board of
Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this Code. (Ord. 920, 11-10-2008; amd. 2013 Code)
9-4-9: PROHIBITED GARBAGE DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful to place, deposit, abandon or maintain garbage on public
or private property other than in an authorized receptacle. (2013 Code)
9-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined in such
amounts as set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division III of this Code. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
869, 9-10-2001; amd. 2013 Code)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CODES AND CODE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Codes Adopted
10-1-2: Modifications Of Adopted Codes
10-1-3: Codes In Effect
10-1-4: Conflicts With City Code
10-1-5: Enforcement Of Codes
10-1-6: Inspections
10-1-7: Appeal From Decision Of Building Official
10-1-8: Permit Requirements And Fees
10-1-9: Construction Related Businesses; Registration And Fees
10-1-10: Permit Rate Structure And Fees; Notice For Inspection
10-1-11: Fire Prevention And Safety Provisions
10-1-12: Violation; Penalty
10-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   The most recent version of the following codes adopted and amended by
the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission shall be effective for the City
of Kingfisher, except as may be modified within the Kingfisher City Code.
Copies of the currently active codes are available for inspection at City Hall.
The codes adopted by reference are as follows:
      1.   International Building Code, issued by International Code Council,
Inc.;
      2.   International Residential Code, issued by International Code
Council, Inc.;
      3.   International Existing Building Code, issued by International Code
Council, Inc.;
      4.   International Fire Code, issued by International Code Council, Inc.;
      5.   International Fuel Gas Code, issued by International Code Council,
Inc.;
      6.   International Mechanical Code, issued by International Code Council,
Inc.;
      7.   International Plumbing Code, issued by International Code Council,
Inc.; and
      8.   National Electric Code, issued by the National Fire Protection
Association.
   B.   The International Property Maintenance Code, issued by International
Code Council, Inc., regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of
all property, buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use is
hereby adopted. A copy of said code is available for inspection at City Hall.
(Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-008, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2024-007, 8-12-
2024)
10-1-2: MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES:
   A.   General Modifications.
      1.   Wherever the words "city", "town", or "municipality" are used in
those codes adopted, it shall mean the City of Kingfisher.
      2.   Wherever the words "inspector", "building inspector", "building
official", or "code official" are used in those codes adopted, it shall mean
the municipal official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of
municipal building inspector for the City.
      3. All official titles used in those codes adopted shall be interpreted
as defined in this city code.
      4.   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those codes are
provided in title 1, chapter 4, "General Penalty", or appendix A, "Fines And
Fees Schedule", of this code.
      5.   All limits referred to in any of those codes adopted by this chapter
are hereby established as the corporate limits of the city of Kingfisher, or
connection to city utilities.
   B.   International Building Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   C.   International Residential Code Modifications.
      1.   Ice barriers required for roofing installations.
         a.   Table R301.2(1), Row 2, column 6 is marked "Yes" to indicate ice
barrier underlayment is required.
         b.   Ice barriers shall be installed in compliance with R905.l.2.
         c.   Ice barriers shall be installed in accordance with State of
Oklahoma Amendments (B) and (C) to Section 905.1.2.
      2.   R802.11 Roof tie-down: Minimum uplift resistance requirements.
Hurricane ties are required at each intersection of rafter/truss to top-plate.
The use of alternate connection types, of equal or greater strength, may be
substituted with the permission of the building official.
   D.   International Existing Building Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   E.   International Fire Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   F.   International Fuel Gas Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   G.   International Mechanical Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   H.   International Plumbing Code Modifications.
      1.   None.
   I.   National Electric Code Modifications.
      1.   The exception to 210.l l(C)(3) is deleted.
   J.   International Property Maintenance Code Modifications.
      1.   None. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-007, 8-12-2024)
10-1-3: CODES IN EFFECT:
From the effective date hereof, the provision of said codes, as herein
modified, shall be controlling in those areas set forth hereinabove, within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011)
10-1-4: CONFLICTS WITH CITY CODE:
Whenever any provision of any codes adopted by this chapter conflict with the
city code, the latter provisions shall govern. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011)
10-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OF CODES:
Any municipal official or other employee designated by the city shall be
responsible for enforcing the codes adopted by this chapter. Said persons may
bear such titles as "building inspector", "mechanical inspector", "plumbing
inspector", "electrical inspector", etc., as may be deemed appropriate to
indicate their respective areas of concern, and shall be appointed or
designated by the city manager. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011)
10-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The code official shall make all the required inspections, or the code
official shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals; and all reports of such inspections shall be in writing and
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The code official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
   B.   No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in
the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion
thereof shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefore as provided herein.
      1.   Occupying a structure is defined as any person or object not
participating in the construction process maintaining a presence on the
property for a period of more than eight hours per day.
      2.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until all final
inspections (electrical, mechanical, plumbing, driveway, etc.) are completed
prior to requesting an occupancy inspection.
      3.   Temporary certificates of occupancy may be available on a limited
basis provided all fire/life/safety issues have been addressed.
      4.   In any case where any building, structure or premises within the
city is being built, used or occupied in violation of any provisions of the
ordinances of the city, the building official may notify the city manager of
such fact and request discontinuance of water service to such building,
structure or premises until such violation has been discontinued and remedied
to the satisfaction of the building official. This Section is not to be
construed or read to eliminate or alter the other penalties for violations
provided by Section
10-1-12 of the city code. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-004, 2-10-
2020).
10-1-7: APPEAL FROM DECISION OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Time Limit For Filing Appeal: Appeals from any action of the building
official may be taken to the board of city commissioners by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer, department, or board of the municipality affected
by any decision of the building official. Such appeal shall be taken within
three (3) days from the date of the decision of the building official, or in
the event of the failure of such building official to issue or refuse a permit,
as herein provided, such appeal shall be within three (3) days from the
expiration of the ten (10) day period therein provided; and such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the building official and with the board of city
commissioners, within such time, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
therefor. The building official shall forthwith transmit to the board of city
commissioners certified copies of all the papers constituting the record in
such matter, involved in such appeal, together with a copy of the ruling or
order from which said appeal is taken.
   B.   Appeal Stays Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the building official certifies
to the board of city commissioners, after the notice of the appeal has been
filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his
opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceeding
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by
the board of city commissioners, or by a court of record on application or
notice to the building official.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision: The board of city commissioners shall
hear said appeal within ten (10) days from filing thereof, giving public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any person may appear in person or
by his agent or by his attorney.
   D.   Appeal Decision To District Court:
      1.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of
the board of city commissioners may be taken to district court by any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved or by any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the municipality, by filing with the city clerk
and with the board of city commissioners within ten (10) days a notice of such
appeal, which notice shall specify the ground of such appeal. No bond or
deposit for costs shall be required for such appeal. Upon filing of the notice
of appeal, as herein provided, the Board shall forthwith transmit to the Court
Clerk of the County, the original or certified copy of all the papers
constituting the records in the case, together with the order, decision or
ruling of the Board.
      2.   An appeal to the District Court from the Board of City Commissioners
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the
Mayor or the Board of City Commissioners certifies to the Court Clerk, after
notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order granted by the District Court upon application or notice to
the building official and the Mayor or the Board of City Commissioners. (Ord.
941, 11-14-2011)
10-1-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permits Required For Construction, Modification And Demolition: No
person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual shall:
         a.   Erect, enlarge, construct, remodel, relocate, substantially
improve, repair, place, alter, or move any building, structure, mobile or
modular home or other type of construction without first obtaining a separate
building permit for each such building or structure from the office of the
building official and other City officials.
         b.   Demolish, implode or tear down any structure without first
obtaining a permit from the office of the building official or other City
officials. A metal, wood, or vinyl sight proof fence, not less than six feet
(6') in height, installed in a manner sufficient to keep the public out of the
demolition area is required where debris from such project will likely be on
the ground longer than seven (7) days or an opening in the ground or structure
being demolished, imploded or torn down may remain open during a period when no
individuals will be actively working on the site. If there is a dispute over
whether fencing is required, the opinion of the Municipal building official
shall control. If a fence is not initially required, but it becomes apparent
that more than seven (7) days will elapse from when demolition begins and all
debris will be removed, the applicant shall be required to fence in the
demolition area as if a fence had been required at the beginning of the
process.
      2.   Flood Hazard Areas 1 : No manmade change to improved or unimproved
real estate located within a designated "flood hazard area", including, but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be initiated until a separate
building permit or special use permit has been obtained for each such operation
from the office of the building official.
      3.   Application For Permit; Payment Of Fee: Applications for building
permits shall be signed and in writing, upon an official blank form supplied by
the office of the City building official, and shall be submitted to either of
said officials, along with the required fee.
      4.   Basis For Setting Fees: Building permit fees shall be as determined
by the City Commission and shall be based primarily upon the Municipal costs
incurred in the administration of the City building permit system.
      5.   Administration Of Process: The office of the building official shall
be responsible for the administration of the building permit process within the
community; building permit application forms may be obtained from, and
submitted to, the City building official.
      6.   Information On Application: Applications for building permits shall
contain all applicable information required on the building permit form, and
shall be accompanied by, drawings of the proposed work, showing floor plans,
structural details, computations and such additional information as may be
required of the applicant by the office of the City building official, this
Code or the City Commission. When deemed appropriate by the municipal building
officer it is prudent to require additional information to ensure the safety of
inhabitants of a structure and the citizens of the City of Kingfisher, the
municipal building official may require engineer approved plans, storm water
drainage studies, soil tests, and any other studies deemed necessary to protect
the health and safety of the public.
      7.   Review Application; Conditions: Upon receipt of a complete building
permit application and the required fee, the building official shall review the
application to ensure that:
         a.   The involved land is properly zoned for the proposed use;
         b.   Applicable zoning district provisions have been met;
         c.   Roadway access is available;
         d.   Adequate sanitary provisions have been made for utilities;
         e.   All easements provided in the recorded plat, if any, are not
encroached upon;
         f.   All other required municipal permits have been obtained.
      8.   Issuance Of Permit: If the city building official is satisfied that
the proposed work described in the application and attached materials conform
to the requirements of the adopted zoning ordinance, building code and other
regulations and requirements, he shall authorize the issuance of the building
permit by signing the application and shall return a copy to the applicant.
      9.   Denial Of Permit: If the application or attached materials do not
conform to pertinent municipal regulations, the city building official shall
not approve said application. The building official shall return the
application, with written reason(s) attached, to the applicant. The applicant
may subsequently amend his application, if possible, and resubmit it, or
initiate other action to correct the deficiencies.
      10.   Time Limit For Permit Decision: The city building official shall
complete all required review processes in an efficient and effective manner.
The building official shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the
building permit application within ten (10) working days, without unreasonable
or unnecessary delay.
      11.   Authority Of Permit: A building permit, once approved and issued,
shall be construed as a permit to proceed with the work and shall not be
construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any municipal
regulations, nor shall such issuance prevent the city building official from
thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction or a
violation of this chapter.
      12.   Time Limit For Work To Commence: If the work allowed under an
issued building permit has not been initiated and actively pursued within six
(6) months from the issuance date of the permit, such permit shall become null
and void, unless a request for an extension is submitted to, and approved by,
the city building official. If the permit becomes null and void, a new permit
must be obtained and the regular fee incident thereto collected, in order for
the work to be initiated or resumed.
      13.   Record Of Permits And Fee Payments: The city building official
shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all building permits and fee
payments and subject to open records act.
      14.   Revocation Of Permit: The building official may revoke a building
permit in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a
material fact in the application or attached materials on which the building
permit approval was based.
      15.   Display Of Permit: Building permits shall be conspicuously
displayed on the project or site, in a manner visible from the street.
      16.   Utility Connections: The city clerk and the city building official
shall monitor municipal utility hookup request and shall not allow municipal
utilities to be turned on to any unit, structure or project for which a
building permit has not been issued.
      17.   Appeals To Board Of Adjustment: Appeals from any aggrieved person
concerning a decision of the city building official relative to the granting of
building permits, shall be taken to the Kingfisher board of adjustment, who
shall act as the permit board of appeals for the city.
      18.   Conflicts; Prevailing Provisions: In the event of any conflict
between these building permit provisions delineated herein and any provisions
of the building code adopted by the city commission, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail.
   B.   Pavement Cutting Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any
pavement on any street or alley within the city without a permit from the
office of the building official.
      2.   Safeguards At Night: Any person cutting such pavement shall maintain
proper safeguards, with suitable lights, during the night hours sufficient in
number to give adequate warning of danger to all persons.
   C.   Damaged Buildings:
      1.   Building Repair Permit Required: If any building within the city
shall be seriously damaged by fire, the elements, decay, or otherwise, to such
an extent as to render it dangerous, or render any part of it dangerous, such
building shall not be repaired, or the walls thereof be used for rebuilding
upon until the same has been carefully examined by the building official and a
permit given for such building or repair to proceed.
      2.   Removal Of Damaged Buildings: Any existing buildings within the fire
limits which may hereafter be damaged by fire, the elements, decay or otherwise
to any amount greater than fifty percent (50%) of its original value shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be removed.
   D.   Contracting For Services: Should the City of Kingfisher need to
contract out any portion of plans review, inspections, or any other services
associated with the issuance of any permit (building, electrical, plumbing,
mechanical or otherwise) or verification of compliance with various code, then
the costs will be invoiced to the permittee by the City. A Certificate of
Occupancy will not be issued until all invoiced costs have been paid by the
applicant. Said costs shall be in addition to any and all other fees required.
(Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 949, 9-9-2013; Ord. 2018-010, 9-10-2018; Ord.
2019-001, 2-11-2019; Ord. 2024-007, 8-12-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 13 of this Code.
10-1-9: CONSTRUCTION RELATED BUSINESSES; REGISTRATION AND FEES:
   A.   Plumbing Work:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business
of plumbing within the City shall pay to the City Clerk, through the
Inspections Department, as a registration fee for the purpose of regulating the
business, the sums as set by the Board of Commissioners by motion for plumbing
contractors payable in advance to be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
No registration will be granted until proof of licensing through the
Construction Industries Board as required by the State of Oklahoma has been
verified. Registration with the City will be from July 1 through June 30 of any
year. Fees for such registration shall be in such amounts as set by the Board
of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this Code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed
with any work connected or to be connected with any pipe or pipes of the
waterworks or sewer system of the City, or any private plumbing connected or to
be connected therewith, until a permit for such work has been obtained from the
Inspections Department. Included in the permit requirement shall be all work as
defined in the Plumbing Code adopted by the City.
      3.   Any homeowner has the right, if qualified, to do their own plumbing,
if they own the property at which they reside. This does not qualify for
commercial property; all commercial property must be serviced by a licensed
plumber.
      4.   The potable water supply to lawn irrigation systems shall be
protected against backflow by an atmospheric type vacuum breaker, a pressure
type vacuum breaker or a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A valve
shall not be installed downstream from an atmospheric vacuum breaker. Where
chemicals are introduced into the system, the potable water supply shall be
protected against backflow by a reduced pressure principle backflow preventer.
      5.   All restaurants and food preparation facilities shall install a
grease trap and/or grease trap interceptor for the collection of grease that
can be removed and disposed of properly. If the establishment uses grease and
oil in food preparation, plugged building sewer line are a potential. If the
blockage or restriction is in the public sewer main and it can be proven that
the establishment is the cause of the blockage, then the establishment may have
to pay for the public sewer to be maintained. A fine, per day until the
blockage has been fixed, for the responsible establishment shall be imposed in
an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division III of this Code. Blocking a sanitary sewer
line is also a violation of the Federal Clean Water Act.
      6.   To prevent sanitary sewer overflows for Municipal sewer customers,
sewer laterals for new connections, significant remodels of fifty percent (50%)
or more, and for replacements or repairs made to an existing sanitary lateral
shall include:
         a.   Installation of pop off relief devices (pop off caps) in the caps
of all sewer cleanouts on the property.
         b.   Installation of a backflow prevention device (backwater valve),
to prevent sewage from the main sewer backing up into the private sewer lines
due to blockages.
      All installed devices shall be of sufficient size and quality to prevent
backflow to individual residences or businesses.
      Failure to meet the conditions of this subsection effectively exempts the
City of Kingfisher from all liability in the event of a sanitary sewer backup.
   B.   Electrical Work:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business
of electrical within the City, shall pay to the City Clerk, through the
Inspections Department, as a registration fee for the purpose of regulating the
business, the sums as set by the Board of Commissioners by motion for
electrical contractors payable in advance to be deposited in the General Fund
of the City. No registration will be granted until proof of licensing through
the Construction Industries Board as required by the State of Oklahoma has been
verified. Registration with the City will be from July 1 through June 30 of any
year. Registration fees shall be in such amounts as set by the Board of
Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this Code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed
with any interior or exterior wiring or any construction, installation, or
alteration of any electrical wiring apparatus or fixtures within the City
without first having obtained a permit for the particular work from the
Inspections Department. Included in the permit requirement shall be all work as
defined in the Electrical Code adopted by the City.
      3.   Any homeowner has the right, if qualified, to do their own
electrical, if they own the property at which they reside. This does not
qualify for commercial property; all commercial property must be serviced by a
licensed electrician contractor.
      4.   All wiring within any commercial building defined in the City zoning
ordinance, within the corporate limits of the City, must enclose all electrical
wiring in IMC, RMC, or FMC.
      5.   No meter shall be behind or enclosed behind a locked fence or wall,
it must be accessible to meter readers and electric distribution personnel.
   C.   Mechanical Work:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business
of installing or maintaining forced "heating and air conditioning" within the
City shall pay to the City Clerk, through the inspections department, as a
registration fee for the purpose of regulating the business, the sums as set by
the board of commissioners by motion for mechanical equipment payable in
advance to be deposited in the general fund of the city. No registration will
be granted until proof of licensing through the construction industries board
as required by the state of Oklahoma has been verified. Registration with the
city will be from July 1 through June 30 of any year. Registration fees shall
be in such amounts as set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed
with any construction, installation, or alteration of mechanical equipment
within the city without first having obtained a permit for the particular work
from the inspections department. Included in the permit requirement shall be
all work as defined in the electrical code adopted by the city.
      3.   Any homeowner has the right, if qualified, to do their own heating
and air, if they own the property at which they reside. This does not qualify
for commercial property; all commercial property must be serviced by a licensed
mechanical contractor.
   D.   Roofing Work:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business
of roofing or roofing contractor within the city, shall pay to the city clerk,
through the inspections department, as a registration fee for the purpose of
regulating the business, the sums as set by the board of commissioners by
motion for roofing payable in advance to be deposited in the general fund of
the city. No registration will be granted until proof of registration through
the construction industries board as required by the state has been verified.
Registration with the city will be from July 1 through June 30 of any year.
Registration fees shall be in such amounts as set by the board of commissioners
as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this
code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed
with any construction, installation, or alteration of roofing within the city
without first having obtained a permit for the particular work from the
inspections department. Included in the permit requirement shall be all work
that is to be completed at the defined location.
   E.   Structural and or/ Load Bearing Work:
      1.   Every person, firm or corporation, before engaging in the business
of serving as a general contractor, concrete contractor, or any other type of
work, whether a new build or remodel, that involves structural or load bearing
portions of any building within the city, shall pay to the city clerk, through
the inspections department, as a registration fee for the purpose of regulating
the business, the sums as set by the board of commissioners by motion for
structural and/or load bearing work payable in advance to be deposited in the
general fund of the city. No registration will be granted until proof of
registration through the construction industries board as required by the state
has been verified. Registration with the city will be from July 1 through June
30 of any year. Registration fees shall be in such amounts as set by the board
of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in Appendix A,
Division IV of this code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to proceed
with any construction, installation, or alteration of structural or load
bearing construction project within the city without first having obtained a
permit for the particular work from the inspections department. Included in the
permit requirement shall be all work that is to be completed at the defined
location. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 963, 8-8-2016; Ord. 2024-
007, 8-12-2024)
10-1-10: PERMIT RATE STRUCTURE AND FEES; NOTICE FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   Rate Structure: The permit rate structure and fees as set forth herein
shall be the rate structure of the collection of permits dealing with the
construction, remodeling, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, roofing, and gas
fees and charges.
   B.   Inspection; Notice: The holder of a permit shall notify the inspector's
office when the installation is ready for under floor, rough-in, and final
inspections. It shall be unlawful for equipment to be covered or concealed by
building material until proper inspection is made. The inspector shall cause
such inspections to be made within forty eight (48) hours of the time of
receipt of such notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays
recognized by the city. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011)
10-1-11: FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Districts For Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases: The limits in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited,
and the limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted
are hereby established as the fire limits of the city.
   B.   Modifications: The chief of the fire department shall have power to
modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted in this
chapter upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed and the decision of
the chief of the fire department thereon, shall be entered upon the records of
the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
   C.   Appeals: Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the board of
city commissioners within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
appealed.
   D.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of the code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the board of city commissioners, or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division III of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Remedial Action: The application of the penalty provided in
subsection D1 of this section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of prohibited conditions. (2013 Code)
10-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To Obtain Permit; Fee Doubled:
      1.   If any person commences any work on a building or structure before
obtaining the necessary permit from the applicable governing body, such person
shall be subject to the penalty prescribed herein.
      2.   Where construction is commenced before a permit is obtained, the
permit fees shall be doubled. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Penalty Imposed; License Revocation: Any person who shall fail to
comply with or violate any of the provisions of this chapter or codes adopted
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and
fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code per violation, or the
license of such person may be revoked, or both fined and revocation of license
may be imposed. (Ord. 941, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 2
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
SECTION:
10-2-1: Multijurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
10-2-1: MULTIJURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN:
The hazard mitigation plan for the city is as set out in the "Multi-
Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan (FEMA-1718-DR-OK; #12)", published in
November of 2011 and approved by FEMA on February 23, 2012. Said hazard
mitigation plan is incorporated herein by reference. (2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FENCES, HEDGES AND TREES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Definitions
10-3-2: Review By Board Of Commissioners
10-3-3: Fence Construction Permit Required; Fee
10-3-4: Application For Permit
10-3-5: Location Restriction; Access To Easements
10-3-6: Public Tree Care
10-3-7: Tree Topping
10-3-8: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal
10-3-9: Removal Of Stumps
10-3-10: Landscape And New Commercial Construction Projects
10-3-11: Interference With City Personnel
10-3-12: Inspection
10-3-13: Appeal Of Building Official Determination And Action
10-3-14: Revocation Of Permit
10-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise:
BUILDING CODE: The building code adopted by the city.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, affix, plant, or relocate in
any manner all fences, hedges, and trees as defined in this section.
FENCE: Means and includes every fence that is permanently attached to the
ground including chainlink fences, redwood fences, masonry fences, wood fences,
but not limited thereto, and not including fences in agricultural zones within
the limits of the city.
HEDGE: Any vegetative screening used to block the view or access to any area
when constructed along or within five feet (5') of any property line.
NONCONFORMING TREE: Any tree or shrub located within fifteen feet (15') of any
utility or drainage easement included on any plat or dedicated to the city by
any other type document. Trees more than fifteen feet (15') from the utility
and drainage easements controlled by the city are not trees or shrubs under
this chapter. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003; amd. 2013 Code)
10-3-2: REVIEW BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
The board of commissioners shall have the right to review the conduct, acts,
and decisions of the tree board. Any person may appeal to the board of
commissioners, which may hear the matter and make final decision. (Ord. 887,
12-8-2003)
10-3-3: FENCE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Exception: It is unlawful for any person acting as a
fence contractor or any individual to construct, erect, install, alter, or
locate any "fence" as defined in this chapter or in the building code adopted
by the city without first obtaining a permit from the building official, except
that no permit shall be required for fences constructed on property located in
the areas of the city zoned for agricultural use. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
   B.   Fees: The cost for any fence permit shall be determined by the board of
commissioners and set out in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division IV of this code. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003; amd. 2013 Code)
10-3-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Before any fence is to be installed or
alterations or additions made to an existing fence, hedge or tree, an
application in writing for a permit to erect a fence, hedge or plant a tree,
shall be filed with the building official of the city on a form developed by
the building official.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Such application shall, as a minimum, contain
the following:
      1.   Name of applicant and name of property owner.
      2.   Address of applicant.
      3.   Legal description of property.
      4.   A plot plan acceptable to the building official showing the location
of the requested fence and the construction detail; provided, however, the
building official is not required to obtain details for standard fencing such
as chainlink, stockade, etc. For hedges and trees, the plot plan shall show the
locations and type of hedge and/or trees to be planted.
      5.   Any other information deemed necessary to determine that the
proposed fence is in accordance with this chapter and the building code of the
city. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-5: LOCATION RESTRICTION; ACCESS TO EASEMENTS:
   A.   Except as provided in the following subsections, fences and hedges may
be erected in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard; provided, that
no fence, wall or hedge shall be located in front of the front building line,
and no fence shall exceed eight feet (8') in height.
   B.   No fence, hedge, or nonconforming tree may be erected within any
utility easement or within any drainage easement shown on any plat or dedicated
to the city by any other form.
   C.   No hedge or nonconforming tree shall be planted with the trunk of such
a hedge or tree being located within fifteen feet (15') of the utility or
drainage easement boundary.
   D.   Entrance walls and gates to developments or properties shall be
submitted for review by the planning commission and board of commissioners as
part of the development process and any location approved by the planning
commission and the board of commissioners may be permitted by the building
official.
   E.   Properties with both front and side yard coverage (corner lots) shall
not have erected thereon any fence or hedge within the side building line
adjacent to the side street unless the properties are located back to back, and
then the fence or hedge may be located along the property line of the side
street for the area between the front building line of each property.
   F.   No tree or shrub shall be planted or maintained in a way that could
create a traffic hazard. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003; amd. 2013 Code; Ord. 2025-001,
1-13-2025)
10-3-6: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within rights of way or bounds of all streets, alleys, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure the public safety or
to preserve or enhance the beauty of such public grounds. The city may remove
or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is seriously affected
with any injurious insect or disease. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-7: TREE TOPPING:
   A.   Definition: "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such
a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   B.   Public Property: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property.
   C.   Exemption: Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical are exempt from this section. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-8: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL:
   A.   Definition: "Diseased trees" are defined as those trees that may
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease, which
represent a potential threat to other trees within the city (e.g., Dutch elm
disease or pine wilt).
   B.   City Authority: The city shall remove or cause to be removed any dead
or diseased tree within the city limits.
   C.   Removal By Property Owner Or City; Assess Charges: The city manager or
his designee will notify in writing the owner of such trees, and removal shall
be accomplished within sixty (60) days of notification. In the event of failure
to remove by the owner, the city shall have the authority to remove such trees
and assess charges for said removal to the owner. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-9: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-10: LANDSCAPE AND NEW COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS:
All new commercial projects shall have a landscape plan that incorporates green
space, woody vegetation, and a minimum of two (2) trees. Landscape plans are
encouraged to incorporate underground irrigation. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-11: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY PERSONNEL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with city
personnel or agents while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating,
mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any tree within the community
forest, as authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-12: INSPECTION:
The building official may inspect at any time, as deemed necessary, each fence,
hedge, or tree regulated by this chapter. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-13: APPEAL OF BUILDING OFFICIAL DETERMINATION AND ACTION:
Any adverse decisions of the building official may be appealed following the
procedure for appeals of the building official detailed in the building code.
(Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
10-3-14: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Of Building Official: The building official is hereby
empowered and authorized to revoke any fence permit issued upon the failure of
the applicant and/or property owner to comply with the requirements of the
permit and/or the building code.
   B.   Fence Removal Upon Permit Revocation: The property owner must remove
all fencing authorized in a permit should the building official revoke the
permit for any reason. (Ord. 887, 12-8-2003)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Definitions
10-4-2: Enforcement
10-4-3: Permit Requirements; Fee; Exemptions
10-4-4: Variance Procedure
10-4-5: General Restrictions
10-4-6: Amortization Of Nonconforming Signs
10-4-7: Sign Maintenance
10-4-8: Sign Types And Restrictions
10-4-9: Protection Of First Amendment Rights
10-4-10: Conflicts; Most Restrictive Provisions Prevail
10-4-11: Table Of Signs Within Zoning Districts
10-4-12: Penalty
10-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISPLAY SURFACE: The surface of a sign upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated.
DISPLAY SURFACE AREA: The net geometric area enclosed by the display surface of
the sign, including the outer extremities of all letters, figures, characters
and delineations; provided, however, display surface area shall not include the
structural supports for freestanding signs if said structural supports are not
arranged to become a part of the attention attracting aspects of the sign;
provided, further, that only one face of a double faced sign shall count as
display surface area. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
10-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced and administered by the city
building inspector/code enforcement officer. The officer shall have the
authority to order the painting, repair, or removal of a sign or sign
structure. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: All new signs including temporary and portable signs,
unless explicitly exempted below, shall require a permit.
   B.   Permit Application: The permit application shall include the following
information:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the business and the zoning of
the property.
      2.   A scale drawing showing the type of sign, size, construction and
location on the building or property.
      3.   A drawing or description of the structural components required for
securely fastening or anchoring the sign to a building wall, structural framing
or other foundation sufficiently to resist stress from dead weight or wind
loads.
   C.   Inspection: An inspection and approval by the code enforcement official
or designee is required before a permit may be issued. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
   D.   Permit Fee: There shall be a permit fee as set by the board of city
commissioners in an amount as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division IV of this code.
   E.   Signs Exempted From Permits: The following signs shall be exempted from
the permit requirement:
Community service signs.
Flags and insignia of governmental or nonprofit organizations.
Government signs.
Holiday displays.
Legal notices.
Private property traffic control signs.
Public service signs.
Signs inside of buildings.
Signs on operational vehicles when not intended solely for advertising
purposes.
Temporary political signs.
Temporary real estate signs.
Windows signs. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
10-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment Authority: The Kingfisher board of adjustment shall
have the authority to grant a variance to the height, spacing and setback
requirements of this chapter in cases where it is determined that strict
compliance with the provisions herein will inflict unusual and practical
difficulties.
   B.   Appeal; Notice: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer of the municipality affected by any
administrative decision based on the zoning ordinance. Such appeal shall be
taken within thirty (30) days of such decision by filing with the city clerk
and the board of adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The city clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers
constituting the record of the action from which the appeal is taken.
   C.   Time For Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to it, give public
notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide
the same within a reasonable time. Any party may appear and be heard in person
or by agent or by attorney at said hearing.
   D.   Manner Of Giving Notice: Notice of public hearing before the board of
adjustment shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city and by mailing written notice by the clerk of the board to all
owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior
boundary of the subject property. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-5: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Light, Ventilation Or Access: No sign or its structural
components shall obstruct light, ventilation or access as required by the
provisions of the international building code or any other code adopted by the
city.
   B.   Installation Of Graphics And Works Of Art: All signs, letters, graphics
and works of art should be purchased from and installed by professional
manufacturers or sign companies. Hand painted or "homemade" signs, letters,
graphics and works of art are allowed but must be inspected and approved by the
building inspector/code enforcement official prior to installation. Denial by
the code official may be appealed under the provisions of this code.
   C.   Attaching To Poles Or Trees: No sign or leaflet shall be attached to a
utility pole or tree. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-6: AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Conditions For Continuation: Any sign which is lawfully existing and
maintained at the time this chapter or any amendment of this chapter becomes
effective may continue to be utilized for five (5) years from the date its use
becomes nonconforming so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   The owner, lessor or lessee of such nonconforming sign registers the
sign with the chief planning official as a nonconforming sign within ninety
(90) days of the date the sign becomes nonconforming.
      2.   The sign is properly maintained and in compliance with other
applicable code sections during the amortization period.
      3.   Should the sign be destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost, it may not be repaired and will be
removed.
   B.   Lighting: The provisions of this section allowing the use of
nonconforming signs to be amortized shall not apply to lighted signs utilizing
flashing lights or other lights which would be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-7: SIGN MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Maintenance Of All Signs:
      1.   All signs, together with all their supports, braces, connections,
anchors, and any appurtenances thereto, shall be kept in repair and proper
state of preservation. The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly
painted or posted at all times. Every sign and the immediate surrounding
premises shall be maintained by the owner or person in charge thereof in a
safe, clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and shall be kept free and
clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
      2.   Any crazing, fading, chipping, peeling or flaking of paint, plastic
or glass, or any mechanical, electrical or structural defect shall be corrected
within thirty (30) days upon notice by the code enforcement official or his
designee. Owners or operators who fail to comply shall be subject to penalties
outlined below.
   B.   Abandoned Signs: Any sign which is located on a property which becomes
vacant and unoccupied for a period of thirty (30) days, or any sign which was
erected for an occupant or business unrelated to the present occupant or their
business, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to
a business temporarily suspended because of a change of ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of six (6) months or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited
and shall be removed within thirty (30) days after notification by the building
official, or his designee. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-8: SIGN TYPES AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Awning, Canopy Or Marquee Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to,
an awning, canopy, or marquee.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Signs shall not project more than one foot (1') above the
structure. Minimum height above a sidewalk shall be nine feet (9').
         b.   No sign shall overhang the public right of way except where there
is a zero setback.
   B.   A-Frame Sign:
      1.   Description: A doubled faced sign with nonparallel surfaces with
connected tops and spread base as to make it freestanding.
      2.   Restrictions: A-frame sign dimensions may not exceed two feet (2')
in width and four feet (4') in height. A-frame signs are allowed on the
sidewalks in the planned shopping center (C-3) district, provided they are
placed so that they do not obstruct pedestrian traffic. A-frame signs are
allowed in commercial districts, provided they do not encroach on the rights of
way or obstruct traffic lines of sight. Signs shall be secured with adequate
weight to resist wind loads.
   C.   Bench Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign which is placed upon, or is an integral part of,
a bench for the purpose of providing seating for citizens, and displaying a
printed advertising message.
      2.   Restrictions: Benches shall be adjacent to and abutting a building.
Bench signs shall not be allowed on a public right of way, except on sidewalks
in the planned shopping center (C-3) district.
   D.   Bulletin Board Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign that indicates the name of a governmental,
religious, educational, or other noncommercial institution on whose premises it
is located, and which may contain the names of individuals connected with it
and general announcements of events or activities occurring at the institution,
or similar messages not advertising a specific product or business service.
      2.   Restrictions: One bulletin board may be erected on each street
frontage of an educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring
announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twenty five
(25) square feet in surface area, nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   E.   Business Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted on the premises.
      2.   Restrictions: One square foot of display area per each linear foot
of street frontage or one and five-tenths (1.5) square feet of display surface
area per each linear foot of street frontage when the principal use of the lot
is providing the motoring public with the essential services of fuel, food,
lodging and vehicular repair services, and when the lot is adjacent to and
abutting a federal or state highway.
   F.   Changeable Message Signs:
      1.   Description: Lighted or unlighted signs with changeable graphics or
text.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Changeable message signs shall not change message or graphics
more frequently than twice per minute.
         b.   One square foot of display area per each linear foot of street
frontage.
   G.   Directional Sign: Any sign which serves solely to designate the
location or direction of any place or area, principally for pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, on the premises where the sign is located.
   H.   Ground And Pole Signs:
      1.   Description: A sign which is an independent structure and which is
not attached to or located above a building or similar structure.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Ground signs shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height
and must conform to the provisions of the international building code.
         b.   One square foot of display area per each linear foot of street
frontage.
         c.   The display surface of ground signs shall be not less than twenty
four inches (24") above the ground, but shall be above any expected growth of
vegetation.
   I.   Identification Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign giving any combination of the name, nature,
address, and recognized symbol or logo of a building, business, development,
subdivision or establishment on the premises where the sign is located.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Two (2) identification signs may be erected on each street
frontage of a multi-family development, single-family subdivision or permitted
nonresidential use; provided, that such signs will be limited to two (2) signs
per each intersection of an interior development street with a frontage street.
The sign shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in surface area nor ten feet
(10') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
         b.   During the period of construction, a real estate sign advertising
the sale, rental or lease of the premises or the type of project funding
participation, may be erected on each street frontage of the development. The
sign shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet in surface area, nor ten feet
(10') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   J.   Illuminated Signs:
      1.   Description: An electrically illuminated sign which has words or
graphics designed to convey information or attract attention. Linear run signs
shall not be construed as flashing.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   No business illuminated sign shall be located within seventy five
feet (75') of a residential district if visible from such district.
         b.   Electrically illuminated signs shall conform to the national
electric code.
   K.   Memorial Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign or plaque commemorating a person, event,
structure or site.
      2.   Restrictions: Memorial signs or plaques placed on public property or
rights of way shall require a permit. Permits for memorial signs and plaques
will not require a fee. Memorial signs shall comply with Oklahoma state law.
   L.   Outdoor Off Premises Advertising And Roof Signs:
      1.   Description: A sign, whether freestanding or painted on or attached
to a building, which directs attention to a business, product, accommodation,
service, event, or other activity which is conducted, sold, offered, or
provided at a location other than the premises where the sign is located. Such
signs are also known as billboards.
      2.   Restrictions: All outdoor off premises advertising signs are
prohibited, except by the special provisions of this chapter.
   M.   Portable Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign that is transportable, with or without wheels
and/or tires, designed for temporary use. Typically, such signs are less than
six feet (6') in height; are mounted on a wheeled undercarriage or temporary
base, and contain a display area designed to allow rapid revision of the
letters, numbers, and other characters in the advertising message. Such signs
are a separate type and class, do not meet the wind loading requirements as
established by building officials and code administrators and shall not be
construed as being one of the other signs addressed in, or defined by, this
chapter.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Portable signs shall not be allowed more than ninety (90) days
per year at any one business location.
         b.   Under no condition shall the portable sign be animated or
flashing.
         c.   The owner of any portable sign shall obtain a temporary sign
permit. Said permit shall be valid only for the duration of the time noted on
the permit and subject to all applicable provisions of the city ordinances.
         d.   Portable signs shall not be allowed to be placed in the right of
way, to block the line of sight at a street intersection, or to overhang the
right of way.
         e.   Portable signs shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in
surface area nor eight feet (8') in height.
         f.   Portable signs shall be anchored to withstand wind loads. The
code enforcement official shall determine by inspecting of the portable sign if
anchoring devices are adequate.
   N.   Projecting Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign which is affixed to the exterior wall of a
building or structure and which projects more than fifteen inches (15") from
the wall or building line.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Signs that project over a street or public way shall not extend
more than six feet (6') beyond the face of the building or property line. Signs
that extend over public way are only allowed if there is a zero setback.
         b.   The lower edge of projecting signs shall not be less than nine
feet (9') above the sidewalk level or eleven feet (11') above an alley.
   O.   Real Estate Sign:
      1.   Description: A temporary sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the
lot or tract of land on which the sign is located, or to the sale or lease of
one or more structures.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Real estate signs are limited to six (6) square feet of surface
excluding the attached "Sold" sign.
         b.   Signs are allowed on the right of way, provided they are at least
three feet (3') back of the face of the curb.
         c.   Signs must be removed within forty five (45) days of the sale of
the property.
         d.   Signs must not obstruct traffic lines of sight.
   P.   Temporary Sign:
      1.   Description: Any nonpermanent sign not classified as a portable sign
that is intended to be displayed for a short period of time, including such
signs as banners, pennants, lightweight signs of cardboard, plastic and paper
materials.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Temporary signs shall not be allowed to be placed in the right of
way, to block the line of sight at a street intersection, or to overhang the
right of way.
         b.   Neither electricity nor electrical conduit may be attached to a
temporary sign.
         c.   Temporary signs shall be anchored to withstand wind loads. They
shall determine by inspecting of the temporary sign if anchoring devices are
adequate.
         d.   Anchors and supports of a temporary sign shall not create a
hazard for pedestrians or vehicles.
         e.   Anchors and supports of a temporary sign shall not be placed in
or overhang the right of way.
         f.   Temporary signs shall not be allowed more than ninety (90) days
per year at any one business location.
   Q.   Wall Sign:
      1.   Description: A sign fastened to, or painted on, the wall of a
building such that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the
background surface of, the sign, and which does not project more than fifteen
inches (15") from the wall or building line.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   Wall signs attached to the exterior walls of buildings or
structures shall not extend more than fifteen inches (15") from the wall or
structural member to which they are attached.
         b.   Wall signs shall not extend beyond the top of the wall to which
they are attached.
         c.   One square foot of display area per each linear foot of street
frontage or one and five-tenths (1.5) square feet of display surface area per
each linear foot of street frontage when the principal use of the lot is
providing the motoring public with the essential services of fuel, food,
lodging and vehicular repair services, and when the lot is adjacent to and
abutting a federal or state highway. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-9: PROTECTION OF FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS:
Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy, any
otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not direct attention to a
business, activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a location not on
the same premises where such business sign is located. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-10: CONFLICT; MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS PREVAIL:
If any part of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other ordinance
of the city, the most restrictive or highest standard shall prevail. (Ord. 934,
8-8-2011)
10-4-11:TABLE OF SIGNS WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
Sign Type A R-1 R-1 ZL R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6 I-1 I-2
Sign Type                 A R-1 R-1 ZL R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6 I-1 I-2
A-frame sign              A X   X      X   X   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Awning, canopy or marquee X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
sign
Bench sign                X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Bulletin board sign       P P   X      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Business sign             X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Changeable message sign   X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Directional sign          A A   A      A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Ground and pole sign      P X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Identification sign       X P   X      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Illuminated sign          P X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Memorial sign             P P   X      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Off premises advertising  X X   X      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
sign
Portable sign             X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Projecting sign           X X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Real estate sign          A A   A      A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Roof sign                 X X   X      X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
Temporary sign            P P   X      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Wall sign                 P X   X      X   X   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 
Where the letter "A" appears in the column under the zoning district, the type
of sign is permitted without permit.
Where the letter "P" appears in the column under the zoning district, the type
of sign requires a permit.
Where the letter "X" appears in the column under the zoning district, the type
of sign is prohibited. (Ord. 934, 8-8-2011)
10-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount set
by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule
pursuant to appendix A, division I of this code. Each day such violation is
continued or is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
934, 8-8-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STREET ADDRESS DISPLAY
SECTION:
10-5-1: Requirements
10-5-2: Fine For Noncompliance
10-5-1: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Posting Numbers:
      1.   All house, business, apartment and dwelling street address numbers
shall be posted in such a manner as to be plainly legible from the street at
all times. If any structure cannot be seen from the street, the owner shall
post the address next to the driveway leading to the structure.
      2.   All buildings that use a post office box number are still required
to have a number posted in such a manner as to be plainly legible from the
street at all times for the purpose of identification by emergency and city
services personnel.
   B.   Apartment Complex: The city shall designate the proper street address
number for an apartment complex. The apartment complex address shall be placed
in such a manner as to be plainly legible from the street at all times. In
addition, each apartment building must be identified by a number on the
building and each unit must be identified by a number on or near its door.
Directional signs or other informational devices must be maintained in
conspicuous places within the complex in order to give adequate notice of
apartment locations. (Ord. 928, 9-13-2010)
10-5-2: FINE FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Failure to comply may result in a fine in an amount set by the board of
commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A,
division I of this code, and/or loss of city services. (Ord. 928, 9-13-2010;
amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 6
POWER-GENERATION TOWERS OR STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Application
10-6-3: Height Restrictions
10-6-4: Right To Inspect
10-6-5: Solar Panel Placement
10-6-6: Application And Fees
10-6-7: Penalty For Noncompliance
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this section, power-generation tower or structure shall mean any
tower or structure constructed, erected or set up upon the ground or attached
to something having a permanent location on the ground, the purpose of which is
to generate and supply power, through the assistance of a renewable energy
source, to be utilized by an existing principal residential or nonresidential
use of the property on which it is situated. A power-generation structure shall
be deemed to include all structural and mechanical components thereof. Nothing
herein shall be construed or deemed to authorize the construction or use of any
such tower or structure in the absence of compliance with any applicable
ordinances, Building or Electrical Codes, tariffs, contracts, utility
regulations or State or Federal requirements or statutes of any nature. This
chapter shall not relate to, or be deemed to permit, the construction of
commercial power- generation projects. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
10-6-2: APPLICATION:
Notwithstanding any provision in this Code to the contrary, this chapter shall
apply throughout the corporate limits of the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, and
in every zoning district contained therein. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
10-6-3: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Power-generation towers or structures may not exceed the height limitation of
the district in which located, and in addition, shall be placed in such manner
that there shall be a distance from the base of the tower or structure to all
property lines greater than the height of the tower or structure as measured
from the base thereof to its highest point, to include height added by any
blade in a vertical position, if the power- generation tower or structure is
wind-motivated, so that should said tower topple over it shall come to rest
wholly within the confines of the property on which it is emplaced. All such
towers and structures may not be attached or affixed to any residential
structures. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
10-6-4: RIGHT TO INSPECT:
The owner of the property upon which any power-generation tower or structure is
proposed, shall provide to the City written authorization giving City employees
the right to enter the subject property whenever deemed necessary by the City
for the purpose of inspection of the structure, its supports and components for
structural and mechanical stability and integrity; provided, that any such
right-to-enter shall not be deemed to relieve the owner of any of his duties
under law, nor shall it be deemed to impose upon the City any obligations under
law not existing prior to the execution of any such right-to-enter. (Ord. 968,
8-14-2017)
10-6-5: SOLAR PANEL PLACEMENT:
Solar panels may be placed on roofs of structures of the owners using the
electric power generated, pursuant to the permitting process provided in this
chapter and any relevant resolutions of the City or its authorities, and no
solar panels shall be erected on empty lots (solar farms) or on the front or
side yards of any lot visible from the street. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
10-6-6: APPLICATION AND FEES:
No power-generation tower or structure or solar panel shall be placed within
the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, without filling out the application at City
Hall permitting its erection and placement and full compliance with this
chapter and all other provisions contained in this Code. The permit fee shall
be an amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and
fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
10-6-7: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Any person who shall by action or omission violates the terms of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine in an amount set
by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division III of this Code. Each day of continued violation shall
give rise to an additional charge. (Ord. 968, 8-14-2017)
CHAPTER 7
EXTERIOR CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Definitions
10-7-2: Requirements
10-7-3: Exemptions
10-7-4: Penalty
10-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise:
FRONT: The area of the building facing the main street, avenue, lane or
thoroughfare, or, in the case of buildings on corner lots, both areas of the
building facing the main streets, avenues, lanes or thoroughfares.
NON-METAL: A substance that is not metal, including, without limitation, glass,
masonry, rock, wood and composite material.
SIDE: The area or areas of the building adjoined to the front of the building.
(Ord. 978, 4-9-2018)
10-7-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall construct any building unless it complies with the
following construction requirements:
      1.   A minimum of forty percent (40%) of the total area of the exterior
of the front of the building must be non-metal.
      2.   A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total area of the
exterior of the side of the building must be non-metal. (Ord. 978, 4-9-2018)
10-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Buildings constructed in an industrial district.
      2.   Buildings, containing one hundred sixty (160) or fewer square feet,
constructed in a residential district if such building is for personal storage
and a residential dwelling is present on the property and occupied.
      3.   Buildings constructed in a residential district for which a
conditional use permit has been issued. (Ord. 978, 4-9-2018)
10-7-4: PENALTY:
The City and/or the Kingfisher Public Works Authority will not connect utility
services to any building that is subject to, but does not comply with, this
chapter. If utility services have already been connected, the City and/or the
Kingfisher Public Works Authority will disconnect utility services to any
building that is subject to, but does not comply with, this chapter. (Ord. 978,
4-9-2018)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Interpretation And Application
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Severability Clause
11-1-6: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KINGFISHER, OKLAHOMA. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the community; lessening congestion in the streets;
securing safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; providing adequate light
and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding undue concentration of
population; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; conserving the value
of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
community; and promoting the development of the community in accordance with a
Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   As concerns interpretation and application, the provisions of this
title shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   B.   Where this title imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or
required by other provisions of law or by other rules or regulations or
ordinances, the provisions of this title shall control.
   C.   Terms and words are to be used and interpreted as defined in section
11-1-6 of this chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word
"building" shall mean as well the word "structure"; the word "used" shall
include "arranged", "designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted",
"rented", "leased", or "intended to be used"; and the word "shall" is mandatory
and not directory, except where the natural construction of the writing
indicates otherwise. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This title shall be in full force and effect within the corporate limits of the
City. Undeveloped territory annexed to the corporate limits of the City
subsequent to the effective date hereof shall immediately be subject to the
provisions of this title and shall be deemed to be designated as A-Agricultural
District until altered or reclassified in the manner provided by law. Developed
territory annexed to the corporate limits of the City subsequent to the
effective date hereof shall immediately be subject to the provisions of this
title and shall be deemed to be designated a zoning classification pursuant to
established land use upon annexation. (Ord. 974, 10-10-2017)
11-1-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
In case any portion of this title shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remainder of the title shall not thereby be invalid, but
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure customarily incidental,
appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of a building or to the
principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory shall be secondary
to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided further, that the above
uses shall not include the commercial feeding of swine or other animals,
stockyards or commercial feedlots for cattle.
AIRPORT: Kingfisher Municipal Airport.
ALLEY: A minor right-of-way dedicated to public use not more than thirty feet
(30') wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental replacement of parts and motor service to
passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) ton capacity.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: Any area used for retail sale of
gasoline or oil fuels or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including painting, major repair, or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
BLOCK:
   A.   In describing the boundaries of a district, the word "block" refers to
the legal description.
   B.   In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the property abutting on
one side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets or between an
intersecting street and a railroad right-of-way or between an intersecting
street and a watercourse.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The Board of Adjustment of the City of Kingfisher,
Oklahoma, also referred to as the "Board".
BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE: A facility where meals or lodging are
provided for persons other than the family or their relatives and excluding
facilities for transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such
facilities.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
or property.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: The subordinate building, the use of which is customarily
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot. Mobile homes,
travel trailers, and storage containers shall not be considered an accessory
building.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average line of the highest and
lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or the deckline of a mansard roof or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or buildings in which the principal use of the
building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
BULLETIN BOARD: Any sign announcing the activities of an educational,
religious, institutional or similar use.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution which receives three (3) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years for care apart from their
natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, and received for regular
periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this definition shall not
include public and private schools organized, operated or approved under the
laws of this State, custody of children fixed by a court, children related by
blood or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or to
churches or other religious or public institutions, caring for children within
their institutional building while their parents or legal guardians are
attending services or meetings or classes and other church activities.
CITY COMMISSION, COMMISSION, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The official Governing
Body of the City of Kingfisher.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The Kingfisher City Planning and Zoning Commission,
as established by the statutes hereinbefore cited, also referred to as
"Planning Commission". The City Planning Commission shall also be the Zoning
Commission for the City of Kingfisher.
CLINIC: A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
CLUB: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official City plan of the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
CONFORMING METAL BUILDING: A building that is the primary structure on a lot
and complies with the requirements of section
10-7-2 of this Code.
CONVALESCENT HOME: Also, a nursing home, a rest home, a home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill, or incurable persons, in which two (2) or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including the
area covered by all overhanging roofs.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of
one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, mobile
home, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
DWELLING, MODULAR: A relocatable living unit manufactured off site and
transported on an independent carrier unit, to a permanent site which has been
constructed in accordance with an "engineering bulletin" issued by the Office
of Technical Standards, Department of Housing and Urban Development,
Washington, D.C.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3) or
more dwelling units and designed for or used by three (3) or more families;
also includes the word "apartments".
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit and designed
for or used exclusively by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units and designed
for or used exclusively by two (2) families; also includes the word "duplex".
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms arranged, intended or designed as a
habitable unit, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more
than one family living independently of any other family.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
FAMILY: A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit, using a single
facility in a dwelling unit, for culinary purposes, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity
house, or sorority house.
FLOOD (100-YEAR FREQUENCY): A flood having an average frequency of occurrence
once in one hundred (100) years although the flood may occur in any year, based
on statistical analyses of stream flow records available for the watershed and
analyses of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the general region of the
watershed, as determined by the city engineer, or as determined by the U.S.
corps of engineers and confirmed by the city engineer or as determined by a
registered professional engineer and certified by the city engineer.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land area adjoining a floodway which is not reasonably
required to carry and discharge the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood
but which would be inundated by the floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood
based on full urbanization of the watershed.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a watercourse or drainageway and those portions of the
adjoining lands which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of the 100-year frequency flood.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerlines of walls separating two (2) buildings.
FRONTAGE: The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a street.
GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
GARAGE, PARKING: Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
(4) or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes and where repair facilities
are not provided.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: The structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any structure on any parcel of land
measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost point
of the structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet in area, attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
customarily used in purely domestic or household purposes. A tearoom,
restaurant, rest home, clinic, barbershop, beauty parlor, doctor's or dentist's
office, childcare center, tourist house or cabinet shop, metal shop, lawn mower
repair, or auto repair garage shall not be deemed a home occupation.
HOSPITAL: See definition of Medical Facilities.
HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six (6)
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer parks, or camp, hospital,
asylum, orphanage, or building where persons are housed under restraint.
INDUSTRY: Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance, or any commodity for commercial use.
INSTITUTIONAL USES: Those uses organized, established, used or intended to be
used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social, or philanthropic activity and normally operated on a
nonprofit basis.
JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including all
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises on which three (3) or more dogs over four (4)
months of age are kept.
LIVABILITY SPACE: The open space of a lot which is not allocated to or used for
off street parking or loading areas or for paved access to the off street
parking or loading area.
LOADING SPACE: A space on the same lot as the principal use of at least ten
feet (10') in width and thirty feet (30') in length and having a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14'), designated for the temporary parking
of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such billings and accessory buildings or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this title, and having access on a public street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two (2)
sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONT: A lot having frontage of two (2) nonintersecting streets, as
distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where the
lot abuts more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot situated so that the front is either wider or narrower
than the rear of the lot.
LOTS OF RECORD: A separate and distinct parcel designated on a legally recorded
subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of Kingfisher
County, state of Oklahoma.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT: A dwelling which is manufactured off site and
transported to the lot in one or more sections and is situated on a foundation
and anchored and otherwise conforming to the manufactured housing construction
and safety standards code as administered by the U.S. department of housing and
urban development; complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, connection to utilities, and
taxable on the basis of conventional structures which conform to the city's
codes such as building, housing, fire prevention, electrical, plumbing and
mechanical.
MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
MEDICAL FACILITIES:
Dental Or Doctor's Office: The same as dental or medical clinic, including the
various dental and medical specialties.
Dental Or Medical Clinic: A building used for the examination and treatment of
the physically ill; provided, that no facilities are provided for patients
remaining overnight except under emergency conditions.
Hospital: An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human inpatient laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
Nursing Home, Rest Or Convalescent Home: See definition of Convalescent Home.
Public Health Center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services, including related facilities.
MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit having a maximum width of
sixteen feet (16'), designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations and designed for transportation, after fabrication, on its own
wheels with the carriage frame for transportation being an integral part of the
construction of the unit including axles, wheels and hitch, and arriving at the
site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, and connection to utilities,
and not taxable on the basis of conventional structures which are taxed
according to ad valorem tax criteria, whether or not its wheels, rollers,
skids, or other rolling equipment have been removed, and whether or not any
addition thereto has been built on the ground, and which does not conform to
the City's codes such as Building, Housing, Fire Prevention, Electrical,
Plumbing and Mechanical.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive use
of the occupants of a single mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes to be occupied as
residences.
MOTEL: An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to be used
as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
OPEN SPACE: Area included in any side, rear, or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
PARCEL: A "lot" as defined herein.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area of not less than two hundred (200)
square feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways
or access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
PLANNING COMMISSION: See definition of City Planning Commission.
RV PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership, which has been planned and
improved for placement of recreational vehicles that are primarily used as
temporary residences.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of boarding house and rooming house.
SIGN: Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a
firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a
commodity or product, which are visible from any public street or right- of-way
and designed to attract attention. "For Sale" and "For Rent" shall be deemed
signs within the meaning of this definition, but the term "sign" shall not
include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or other
political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious, or like campaign, drive, movement, or event used for a public
purpose in the public interest.
SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA: The net geometric area of the surface of the sign
upon, against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated,
including the outward extremities of all letters, figures, characters and
delineations; provided, that only one face of a double faced sign shall be
included in the computation of display surface area.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designated to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building,
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises for
sale, rent, or lease.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
STREET: A public right-of-way more than thirty feet (30') in width which
provides the primary public means of access to abutting property and used
primarily for vehicular circulation.
STREET, ARTERIAL: Any street designated by the City Commission and/or as may be
designated on the thoroughfare plan or future Land Use Plan as an arterial,
primary arterial, secondary arterial, major street, etc.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street collecting traffic from minor streets and serving
as the most direct route to an arterial street or a community facility. Any
street may be designated by the City Commission as a collector street when it
serves, or when extended, may serve, more than fifty (50) dwelling units.
STREET, MINOR: Any street not designated on the thoroughfare plan or future
Land Use Plan as an arterial.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building, such
as walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground (not including sidewalks, driveways and similar improvement areas).
THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the Comprehensive Plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles, and standards; also includes use
of the words "Major Street Plan" and "Trafficways Plan".
TRAILER: A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or designed
to carry or transport material or animals.
YARD: A required space on a lot unobstructed except as expressly permitted.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot line
to side lot line abutting on a street into which a building may not protrude.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting the side
lot line, into which no building may protrude. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord.
971, 8-14-2017; Ord. 978, 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Responsibility For Enforcement
11-2-2: Conditional Use Permit; Fee
11-2-3: Platting Requirement
11-2-4: Violations; Penalties
11-2-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector (zoning administrator) to
enforce this title. If the zoning administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of this title are being violated, he shall notify in writing the
persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct such violation, and shall take
such other action as is authorized by law to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation of its provisions. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-2-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Procedure For Authorizing: Where the letter "p" appears for certain
uses in the tables of permitted uses, their use is permitted subject to
acquiring a conditional use permit. The uses designated under the various
districts herein as "conditional uses" are so classified because they more
intensely dominate the area in which they are located than do other uses
permitted in the district; however, the nature of such uses makes it desirable
that they be permitted to locate therein. The following procedure is
established to integrate properly the conditional uses with the other land uses
located in the district. These uses shall be reviewed and authorized or
rejected under the following procedure:
      1.   An application shall be filed with the city planning commission for
review. Such application shall show the location and intended use of the site,
the names of all the property owners and existing land uses within three
hundred feet (300') and any other material pertinent to the request which the
planning commission may require.
      2.   The city planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon.
      3.   The planning commission shall, within forty five (45) days of the
date of application, transmit to the city commission its report as to the
effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood,
traffic condition, public utilities and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare, and the recommendation of the planning commission concerning use
thereon. Thereupon, the city commission may authorize or deny the issuance of a
building permit for the use of land or buildings as requested. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011)
   B.   Fees: In accordance with subsection A of this section, a fee in an
amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code shall be paid at the time of
submission of the application. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
11-2-3: PLATTING REQUIREMENT:
For the purposes of providing a proper arrangement of streets and assuring the
adequacy of open spaces for traffic, utilities, and access of emergency
vehicles, commensurate with the intensification of land use customarily
incident to a change of zoning, a platting requirement is established as
follows:
For any land which has been rezoned upon application of a private party, no
building permit or zoning clearance permit shall be issued until that portion
of the tract on which the permit is sought has been included within a
subdivision plat or replat, as the case may be, submitted to and approved by
the city commission upon the recommendation of the planning commission, and
filed of record in the office of the county clerk of Kingfisher County.
Provided that the city commission, upon the recommendation of the planning
commission, may remove the platting requirement upon a determination that the
above stated purposes have been achieved by previous platting or could not be
achieved by a plat or replat. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-2-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A violation of this title shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this title shall be fined in an amount set by the
board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix
A, division III of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011;
amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
11-3-2: Zoning Map Incorporated; Maintenance
11-3-3: District Boundaries Established
11-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title and the promotion of public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the city:
A-     Agricultural district
R-1    Single-family residential district
R-1 ZL Single-family zero lot line district
R-2    Combined residential district
R-3    Multi-family residential district
C-1    Office district
C-2    Convenience commercial district
C-3    Planned shopping center district
C-4    Restricted commercial district
C-5    Automotive and commercial recreation district
C-6    General commercial district
I-1    Light industrial district
I-2    Heavy industrial district
FD     Floodplain supplemental district
SD     Special district
 
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-3-2: ZONING MAP INCORPORATED; MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Incorporation: The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts
shall be established by ordinance and shall be delineated and shown on a map
entitled "Zoning Map Of The City Of Kingfisher, Oklahoma", and the zoning map
is hereby incorporated as a part of this title as fully as if the same were set
forth herein in detail.
   B.   Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the city code enforcement officer
to maintain an up to date official zoning map of the city, including all
amendments directly adopted by the city commission. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-3-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The boundaries of a zoning district shall extend to a centerline of abutting
streets, regardless of the legal description used in establishing such
district. In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the official city zoning map, the planning and zoning
commission, upon written application or upon its own motion, shall recommend
the location of such boundaries to the board of adjustment, and the board of
adjustment shall make the final determination. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL OR TO
SEVERAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Limitation On Use
11-4-2: Division Of Lots
11-4-3: Use Of Yards
11-4-4: Street Access
11-4-5: Trailers And Commercial Vehicles
11-4-6: Off Street Parking
11-4-7: Screening Wall Or Fence
11-4-8: Sewerage Service
11-4-9: Group Housing Projects
11-4-10:   Tobacco/E-Cigarette Retailers
11-4-1: LIMITATION ON USE:
   A.   Application Of Regulations In Districts Authorized: No land, building,
structure, or improvement shall be used and no building, structure, or
improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered, enlarged, or
rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be used or maintained for
any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the use, height, area,
coverage, yard, space, and other requirements established in the district in
which such land, building, structure, or improvement is located, and such use
is authorized, except as provided by chapter 5, "Nonconformities", of this
title.
   B.   Application Of Regulations To Uses Of More Restricted District:
Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district permit
the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to the
conditions set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district, unless
otherwise specified.
   C.   Residential Uses Restricted To Residential Lots: It is intended that
this title be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be located on
the same lot with or within a structure used or intended to be used primarily
for nonresidential purposes, except that one accessory residential unit may be
provided for a night watchman, motel manager, or similar purpose where
essential to the main use of the lot. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-2: DIVISION OF LOTS:
An improved lot shall not hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots unless
all lots resulting from such division comply with all applicable requirements
as specified in the subdivision regulations. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-3: USE OF YARDS:
No building, structure, or improvement shall be permitted to encroach upon
required yard spaces set forth in the provisions of this title; provided,
however, that surfaced parking facilities, signs, fences, and gasoline pumping
service units may be permitted to occupy required yard space unless otherwise
prohibited in those districts permitting such improvements and provided that no
inoperative vehicle may be stored in the front yard of a lot in a residential
district. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-4: STREET ACCESS:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-5: TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Storage And Parking In Residential Districts: Commercial vehicles and
trailers of all types, including travel, camping and hauling, and mobile homes
shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot
in any residential district except in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   No more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons' rated capacity, per family living on the premises shall
be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling
explosives, gasoline, or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
      2.   No more than one camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer per
family living on the premises shall be permitted, and said trailer shall not
exceed thirty six feet (36') in length or eight feet (8') in width; and further
provided, that said trailer shall not be parked or stored for more than forty
eight (48) hours unless it is located behind the front yard building line. A
camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or
permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the incorporated
limits except in a mobile home park authorized under the ordinances of the
city, as provided for in subsection B of this section.
      3.   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a mobile home park
which is in conformity with ordinances of the city.
   B.   Display In Commercial And Industrial Districts: Commercial vehicles and
trailers of all types may be displayed in such commercial districts allowing
sales of said vehicles or in such industrial districts allowing their
manufacture; provided, however, said vehicles may not be used for dwelling
purposes either temporarily or permanently except in a mobile home park
authorized under the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-6: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose And Application: It is the intent of these requirements that
adequate parking and loading facilities be provided on off the street areas for
each use of land within the city. Requirements are intended to be based on the
demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all uses in all
districts.
   B.   Required Open Space: Off street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use, unless otherwise
prohibited; provided, however, the off street parking requirements shall not be
reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   C.   Location: The off street parking lot shall be located within two
hundred feet (200'), exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use
and shall have direct access to a street or alley.
   D.   Joint Parking And Off Site Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more
uses are located together in a common building, shopping center or other
integrated building complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by
providing a permanent common parking facility, cooperatively established and
operated, which contains the requisite number of spaces for each use. Owners
jointly provide for their individual parking needs through a joint facility
and/or facilities; provided, that the total number of spaces so provided shall
not be less than the sum of the individual requirements and that each business
and/or other use is within two hundred feet (200') of the parking facility.
   E.   Size Of Off Street Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   F.   Amount Of Off Street Parking And Loading Required: Off street parking
and loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in accordance with
the following schedule:
   Parking Ar   Number Of Parking Spaces
   Parking Area                         Number Of Parking Spaces
Boarding or rooming house or hotel/     1 parking space for each sleeping room
motel
                                        1 parking space for each 150 square
Commercial establishments not otherwise feet of floor space used for retail
classified                              trade in the building and including all
                                        areas used by the public
                                        1 parking space for each 4 permanent
                                        seats, based on maximum seating
Community center, theater, auditorium,  capacity, or each 50 square feet of
church sanctuary                        floor area in rooms without permanent
                                        seating but intended to be used for
                                        assembly purposes
                                        1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
Convalescent or nursing homes           space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees including nurses
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  1 parking space for each 50 square feet
museum, place of amusement or           of floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building
                                        The number of spaces provided shall not
                                        be less than 2 parking spaces for each
Dwelling, multi-family                  of the first 50 dwelling units and 11/
                                        2 spaces for each dwelling unit above
                                        50 units
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       2 parking spaces for each separate
                                        dwelling unit within the structure
Eating places                           1 off street parking space for each 225
                                        square feet of gross floor area
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space
Hospitals                               for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
                                        1 space for each 3 employees including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles
                                        1 off street parking space for each 500
                                        square feet of gross floor area or 1
                                        off street parking space for each 2
Industrial establishments               employees, whichever is greater, and 1
                                        loading or unloading berth for each
                                        25,000 square feet or fraction thereof
                                        of gross floor area
                                        6 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for
Medical or dental clinics or offices    each 2 employees or 1 space per each
                                        250 square feet of floor area,
                                        whichever is greater
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor area in the
Office building                         building, exclusive of the area used
                                        for storage, utilities and building
                                        service
 
   G.   Paved Surface Required: All parking spaces shall be paved with a sealed
surface permanent pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust will result
from continued use.
   H.   Off Street Parking Lots Located With Or Adjacent To Residential
District: Whenever off street parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are
to be located within or adjacent to a residential district, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district
shall be enclosed with a screening wall or fence as specified under section
11-4-7 of this chapter.
      2.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard when the parking
lot is located in a residential district.
      3.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      4.   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be paved
with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust
will be produced by continued use.
      5.   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      6.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only nonintermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011)
11-4-7: SCREENING WALL OR FENCE:
When the provisions of this title require the construction of a screening wall
or fence as a condition for the initiation and subsequent continuance of a use,
the screening wall or fence:
   A.   Shall be constructed, designed, and arranged to provide visual
separation of uses, irrespective of vegetation;
   B.   Shall not be less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in
height; and
   C.   Shall be constructed with all braces and supports on the interior.
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-8: SEWERAGE SERVICE:
No structure or use in any district shall be erected or commenced which does
not have a connection to the public sewerage system, unless and until the
county public health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute
disposal system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for
making his decision, the county public health officer may require such
percolation tests as he deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the
expense of the property owner. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-9: GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS:
In the case of a housing project consisting of a group of two (2) or more
buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground of at least two (2) acres not
subdivided into the customary streets and lots, and which will not be so
subdivided, where the existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it
impracticable to apply the requirements of this title to the individual
buildings in such housing project, the application of such requirements to such
housing project may be changed by the board of adjustment, in a manner that
will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a
density of land use no higher and a standard of open space at least as high as
required by this title in the district in which the proposed project is to be
located. In no case shall a use or building height or density of population be
permitted which is less than the requirement of the district in which the
housing project is to be located. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-4-10: TOBACCO/E-CIGARETTE RETAILERS:
   A.   No business licensed by Kingfisher, Oklahoma shall be located or
operated at any place except at locations permitted by the City's zoning or
planning laws. The location of a tobacco/e-cigarette store is specifically
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one
(21) years of age. The distance shall be measured as the shortest straight line
distance from the property line of the proposed tobacco/e-cigarette store to
the property line of the entities listed below:
      1.   Public or private school.
      2.   Playgrounds.
      3.   Facility used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this Section, the following words shall be
defined as shown.
 
             Any device that may be used to deliver any aerosolized or vaporized substance to
             the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to, an e-
             cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-hookah. Electronic smoking device
ELECTRONIC   includes any component, part, or accessory of the device, and also includes any
SMOKING      substance that may be aerosolized or vaporized by such device, whether or not the
DEVICE:      substance contains nicotine. Electronic smoking device does not include drugs,
             devices, or combinationproducts authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
             Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and
             Cosmetic Act.
PLAYGROUNDS: Any area used for outdoor play or recreation, especially by children, and often
             containing recreational equipment such as slides and swings.
             Any property, building, permanent structure, facility, auditorium, stadium, arena
             or recreational facility owned, leased or under the control of a public school
             district or private school or any educational facility that is accredited by the
             state of Oklahoma.
SCHOOL:         a.   School includes all licensed childcare facilities, kindergartens,
             elementary schools, which may include either K-6 or K-8, and all secondary
             schools
                b.   School includes any institution within the Oklahoma State System of
             Higher Education or any other public or private college or university that is
             accredited by a national accrediting body.
             Any product that is made from or derived from tobacco, or that contains nicotine,
             that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether
             smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled or ingested by any other
             means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
TOBACCO      tobacco, snuff, or snus. "Tobacco product" also means electronic smoking devices
PRODUCT:     and any component or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such
             as filters, rolling papers, pipes, and liquids used in electronic smoking
             devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. Tobacco product does not include
             drugs, devices, or combination products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and
             Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
             Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 2024-003, 3-11-2024)
 
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Intent
11-5-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
11-5-3: Nonconforming Structures
11-5-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
11-5-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
11-5-6: Changes In Nonconformity
11-5-1: INTENT:
Within the districts established by this title, or amendments that may later be
adopted, there exists lots, structures, and uses of land and structures which
were lawful before this title was passed or amended but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this title or future
amendment. It is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for
adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. A
nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-5-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which a lot exists of record at the time of the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this title, which does not conform in size or
area to the provisions of this title, buildings for the uses permitted in such
district may be erected on such lot, notwithstanding limitations imposed by
other provisions of this title. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-5-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the time of the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title, that could not be built under the terms of this
title by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at time of destruction, except
in the floodway supplementary district as provided in section
11-11-5 of this title, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this title.
   C.   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, that would
not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, the lawful use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   D.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-5-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, lawful
uses of land exist that are no longer permissible under the terms of this title
as enacted or amended, such uses may be continued so long as they remain
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than thirty (30) days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which
such land is located. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-5-6: CHANGES IN NONCONFORMITY:
A nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and land in combination,
shall not be changed unless changed to a use permitted in the district in which
located; except that the board of adjustment may permit a change to a more
restricted nonconforming use and such change shall be construed as an
abandonment of the former permitted nonconforming use. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 6
A-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6-1: General Description
11-6-2: Permitted Uses
11-6-3: Area And Height Regulations
11-6-4: Signs And Billboards
11-6-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The regulations for the agricultural zoning district are designed to protect
undeveloped areas from intensive uses until a use pattern is approved. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
11-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses in the agricultural district are set forth in the table
below. Where the letter "x" appears on the line of a permitted use and in the
proper column of a district, the listed use is permitted in that district
subject to the general provisions of this title as set forth in the preceding
chapters. Where the letter "p" appears instead of the letter "x", this use is
permitted subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   TABLE OF PERMITTED USES IN AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Permitted Uses Zoning District A
Permitted Uses                                                Zoning District A
Aircraft transportation (special permit requirement shall
apply only to establishing and enlarging of airports, flying  p
fields and heliports and to establishing, relocating and
lengthening of runways)
Airway beacon or marker                                       p
Animal hospital (with or without outside runs)                x
Apiary (where bees are kept)                                  x
Arboretum or botanical garden                                 x
Boarding or training animals                                  x
Carnival, circus, tent revival or similar temporary open air  p
enterprise
Childcare institution: other than day nursery                 p
Church, synagogue or temple, including Sunday school          x
facilities
Civil defense and related activities facility                 p
College, junior college, professional school, or university:
public or equivalent private; stadium or field house; other   p
facilities
Community center: public                                      p
Construction facilities, accessory                            p
Convalescent, maternity or nursing home                       p
Dairy farm; egg farm                                          x
Earthmoving, excavation or depositing construction materials,
clay, earth, gravel, minerals, rock, sand or stone on the     p
ground
Electric regulating substation                                p
Farm for raising dogs, cattle, goats, horses, sheep, rabbits, x
or poultry
Field crop farm                                               x
Fire protection and related activities facility               p
Fishery                                                       x
Flood control works                                           p
Fruit, tree nut, or vegetable farm                            x
Gas pipeline right of way                                     p
Gas pressure control station                                  p
Golf course: public or private                                p
Growing and harvesting of trees                               x
Horticultural specialty farm                                  x
Hospital, general                                             p
Hospital restricted to mental, narcotics or alcoholic         p
patients, drugs; sanatorium
Library: private, nonprofit and public other than branch      p
Medical marijuana growing, processing, wholesale, or storage  x
facilities
Mental institution                                            p
Mining, quarrying and earth extractions                       p
Mobile home (freestanding)                                    p
Monastery, convent or novitiate                               p
Motion picture theater: drive-in                              p
Museum or art gallery: public                                 p
Newspaper distribution station                                p
Nursery (trees and shrubs)                                    x
Nursery school or day nursery                                 x
Parish house, parsonage or rectory                            x
Park, playground or tot lot: public                           x
Petroleum pipeline or pressure control station                p
Pipeline right-of-way or pressure control station, NEC        p
Police protection and related activities facility             p
Postal services facility                                      p
Public stable                                                 x
RV park                                                       p
Radio transmitting station or tower, other than amateur       p
Railroad right-of-way (excluding switching and marshaling     p
yards)
Religious retreat facility                                    p
Retail sale of farm products sold on premises                 x
School, elementary: public or equivalent private              x
School, secondary: public or equivalent private               x
Sewage pressure control station                               p
Sewage treatment plant or sludge drying bed                   p
Single-family detached dwelling                               x
Skating rink: public                                          p
Solid waste disposal facility                                 p
Swimming pool: public                                         p
Taxicab stand or dispatching station                          p
Telephone exchange station, relay tower or right-of-way       p
Television transmitting station or relay tower                p
Tennis courts: public                                         p
Veterinarian treating animals on premises                     x
Water pipeline right-of-way, treatment plant, storage         p
facility or pressure control station
Wildlife area: public                                         x
Zoological garden: public                                     p
 
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 971, 8-14-2017; Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
11-6-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum    Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Percent    Height  Front Yard Yard Setback Yard Setback
                        Coverage           Setback
2.5 acres   200 feet    20 percent 35 feet 50 feet    30 feet      50 feet
 
All lots and improvements within the A-District shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   All lots shall have not less than two and one-half (2.5) acres of land
including street dedications, and not more than one principal residence shall
be placed on any one lot.
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than two hundred feet
(200'); provided, however, that right-of-way dedications may be included in
calculating lot frontage.
   C.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the
meaning of this provision.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot except upon the approval of the
Board of Adjustment.
   E.   All structures shall have not less than a fifty foot (50') front yard
setback.
   F.   All principal structures shall have not less than a thirty foot (30')
side yard setback. Accessory buildings may have side yards of not less than ten
feet (10').
   G.   All structures shall have not less than a fifty foot (50') rear yard
setback. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-6-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall be
permitted in the A-District, except as follows:
   A.   Bulletin Board: One bulletin board may be erected on each street
frontage of an educational, religious, institutional or similar use requiring
an announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve
(12) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   B.   Identification Sign: One identification sign may be erected on each
street frontage of a single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential use.
The sign shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in surface area nor fifteen
feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   C.   Real Estate Sign: A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or
lease of the premises may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. The
sign shall not exceed eighty (80) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet
(15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: General Description
11-7-2: Permitted Uses
11-7-3: Lot, Yard And Height Regulations
11-7-4: Accessory Uses
11-7-5: Signs And Billboards
11-7-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Generally: The regulations for the residential zoning districts are
designed to:
      1.   Protect the residential character of areas so designed from the
noise, congestion and heavy traffic of commercial and industrial activities;
and
      2.   Encourage a suitable environment for family life by providing for
openness of living areas and permitting appropriate neighborhood facilities and
compatible community facilities.
   B.   Specific Districts:
      1.   R-1 Single-Family Residential Districts: The R-1 Districts are
designed to provide quiet, low density areas for single- family living with
related recreational, religious and educational facilities protected from all
commercial and industrial activity. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
      2.   R-1 ZL Single-Family Zero Lot Line District: The R-1 ZL District is
designed to allow single-family residential development containing a minimum of
four (4) structures that utilizes common wall technology and zero lot line
construction to provide an alternative housing form which is compatible with
other types of low density residential development. (Ord. 813, 12-5-1995)
      3.   R-2 Combined Residential Districts: The R-2 Districts encourage
similar basic restrictions of the R-1 Districts and permit a quiet, slightly
higher population density area for family living protected from all commercial
and industrial activity.
      4.   R-3 Multi-Family Residential Districts: The R-3 Districts provide
low and medium population density zone areas, containing a mixture of duplex,
townhouse and multi-family dwellings along with limited home occupations and
limited private and public community uses where lots are large enough for
family living, but small enough to afford low development costs, economy of
streets and utilities, and proximity to schools, churches and shopping. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
11-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses in the residential districts are set forth in the table
below. Where the letter "x" appears on the line of a permitted use and in the
column of a district, the listed use is permitted in that district subject to
the general provisions of this title as set forth in the preceding chapters.
Where the letter "p" appears instead of the letter "x", this use is permitted
subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   TABLE OF PERMITTED USES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Uses Zoning District
               R-1 R-1 ZL R-2 R-3
Permitted Uses                                          Zoning District
                                                        R-1 R-1 ZL R-2 R-3
Apartment hotel                                                        x
Apartment house                                                        x
Arboretum or botanical garden                           p   p      p   x
Attached one-family dwellings                               x
Boarding or rooming house                                              x
Cemetery, crematory; columbarium, niche, mausoleum      p   p      p   p
Child institution, other than day nursery                              p
Church, synagogue or temple, including Sunday school    p   p      p   x
facilities
Conforming metal building                               p   p      p   p
Detached, zero lot line, one-family dwelling                x
Dormitories                                                            x
Electric regulation substation                          p   p      p   p
Fire protection and related activities facility         p   p      p   p
Fraternity or sorority house                                           x
Gas pressure control station                            p   p      p   p
Golf course: excluding miniature and commercial driving p   p      p   p
range
Greenhouses: no products sold on premises               p   p      p   x
Hospital, general                                                      p
Hospital restricted to mental, narcotics or alcoholic                  p
patients, sanatorium
Library: private, nonprofit and public                  p   p      p   p
Mobile home parks                                                      x
Multiple-family dwelling                                               x
Museum or art gallery                                   p   p      p   p
Nursery school or day nursery                           p   p      p   p
Parish house, parsonage or rectory                      x   x      x   x
Park, playground or tot lot: public                     x   x      x   x
Petroleum pipeline or pressure control station          p   p      p   p
Police protection and related activities facility       p   p      p   p
Postal services facility                                p   p      p   p
Public off street parking lot                           p   p      p   p
RV park                                                 p   p      p   p
Radio transmitting station or tower other than amateur  p   p      p   p
School, elementary: public or equivalent private        x   x      x   x
School, secondary: public or equivalent private         x   x      x   x
Sewage pressure control station                         p   p      p   p
Single-family detached dwelling                         x   x      x   x
Swimming pool: public                                   p   p      p   p
Telephone exchange station, relay tower                 p   p      p   p
Television transmitting station or relay tower          p   p      p   p
Townhouse                                                              x
Two-family dwelling                                                x   x
Utility rights-of-way                                   x   x      x   x
Water storage facility or pressure control station      p   p      p   p
Zoological garden: public                               p   p      p   x
 
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 971, 8-14-2017; Ord. 978, 4-9-2018)
11-7-3: LOT, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No lot or yard shall be established or reduced in dimension or area in any
residential district that does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in
this section. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged that will
cause maximum lot coverage or maximum height regulations to be exceeded for
such district as set forth in the following subsections:
   A.   Area And Height Regulations For R-1 Single-Family Districts:
 
Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum    Maximum Minimum    Minimum Side Minimum Rear
Area        Frontage    Percent    Height  Front Yard Yard Setback Yard Setback
                        Coverage           Setback
                                                      5 foot
                                                      interior
                                                      lots
4,500       50 feet     30 percent 35 feet 25 feet                20 percent
square feet                                           25 foot      depth of lot
                                                      street side
                                                      of corner
                                                      lots
 
All lots and improvements within the R-1 district shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   All lots shall have not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet of lot area, and not more than one principal building shall be
placed on any one lot.
      2.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than fifty feet (50').
The frontage of any wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size may be a minimum of thirty five feet (35'), provided the front
building line on the lot shall be a minimum of fifty (50) linear feet measured
at an equal distance parallel to and from the front lot line.
      3.   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the
meaning of this provision.
      4.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
      5.   All structures shall have not less than a twenty five foot (25')
front yard setback.
      6.   For a single-family dwelling of one story, the minimum width of the
side yard shall be five feet (5') for interior lot lines and twenty five feet
(25') for the side yard abutting the side street on a corner lot. For buildings
of more than one story, the minimum width of the side yard on interior lot
lines shall be five feet (5').
      7.   A rear yard of twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot shall be
provided for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory use may
be located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Area And Height Regulations For R-1 ZL Single-Family Zero Lot Line
District: Property and buildings in the R-1 ZL district shall be subject to the
following area regulations:
 
        Minimum Minimum  Maximum               Minimum Minimum     Minimum
        Lot     Lot      Percent   Maximum     Front   Side Yard   Rear    Minimum
        Area    Frontage Coverage  Height      Yard    Setback     Yard    Lot Width
                                               Setback             Setback
                                                       5 foot
                                                       interior
Other   4,500                                          lots        20
than    square  50 feet  30        35 feet     25 feet            percent  
single- feet             percent                       25 foot     depth
family                                                 street side of lot
                                                       of corner
                                                       lots
                                                       Attached: 5
                                                       feet or
                                                       greater
                                                        
                                                       Unattached:
                                                       Reduced to
                                   Dwellings:          0
                                   21/                  
                         50        2 stories           All other           45 feet
Single- 4,500            percent   or 35 feet          unattached:         unattached
family  square          main and             20 feet Same as R-1 15 feet  
        feet             accessory Accessory                              40 feet
                         buildings structures:         Corner: 15          attached
                                   1 story or          feet when
                                   15 feet             back to
                                                       back with
                                                       another
                                                       corner lot
                                                        
                                                       20 feet all
                                                       others
 
All uses and buildings other than single-family dwellings shall be subject to
the area regulations of the R-1 district.
      1.   Lot Area: There shall be a minimum lot area of not less than four
thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet.
      2.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
fifty percent (50%) of the area of the lot. Accessory buildings shall not cover
more than twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard.
      3.   Height Regulations:
         a.   No dwelling structure in the R-1 ZL district shall exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height.
         b.   No accessory building in the R-1 ZL district shall exceed one
story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
      4.   Single-Family Dwellings:
         a.   Front Yards:
            (1)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet
(20').
         b.   Side Yards:
            (1)   For attached dwellings, a zero side yard is allowed along a
common when both units (structures) are built at the same time, provided that
the remaining side yard is five feet (5') or greater.
            (2)   For unattached dwellings, including garages, one side yard
may be reduced to zero provided:
               (A) A two and one-half foot (21/2') minimum maintenance and open
space easement is secured on the lot adjoining the reduced side yard.
               (B) The remaining side yard is not less than five feet (5'), and
is perpetually maintained free and clear from any obstructions.
               (C) The wall located on the zero side yard is constructed of
maintenance free masonry and has no window or door openings, or mechanical
equipment exhaust/vent terminations.
               (D) No portion of the dwelling or architectural features,
including eave overhangs, projects over any property line.
               (E) The zero side yard is not adjacent to a public or private
right of way.
            (3)   For all other unattached dwellings, side yard setbacks shall
be the same as the R-1 district.
            (4)   On any corner lot, a building shall be set back from the
right of way line of the intersecting street a distance of fifteen feet (15')
in the event such lot is back to back with another corner lot, and twenty feet
(20') in every other case.
            (5)   In no case shall a garage which opens onto a street be
located closer than twenty feet (20') to that street property line.
         c.   Rear Yards: There shall be a rear yard of not less than fifteen
feet (15').
      5.   Lot Width: There shall be a minimum lot width of not less than forty
five feet (45') for unattached single-family dwellings and forty feet (40') for
attached single-family dwellings. No lot shall abut a street for a distance of
less than thirty five feet (35').
      6.   Accessory Buildings, Other Than Garages: Unattached one story
buildings of accessory use shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from
any interior side lot line, utility easement, or rear property line. (Ord. 813,
12-5-1995)
   C.   Area And Height Regulations For R-2 Combined Residential District:
 
Minimum Lot  Minimum Lot Maximum    Maximum Front Yard Side Yard   Rear Yard
Area         Frontage    Percent    Height  Setback    Setback     Setback
                         Coverage
4,500 square 50 feet for
feet for     single-                        25 foot                20 percent
single-      family      35 percent 35 feet interior   5 feet      depth of lot
family       dwelling                       lots
dwellings
10,500                                                 25 feet
square feet  75 feet for                               street side
for two-     two-family                             of corner    
family       dwelling                                  lots
dwellings
 
All lots and improvements within the R-2 combined residential district shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   All lots shall have not less than four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet for single-family dwellings and not less than ten thousand five
hundred (10,500) square feet for two-family dwellings and other uses, and not
more than one principal building shall be placed on any one lot, except as
otherwise specified.
      2.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than fifty feet (50') for
single-family dwellings and seventy five feet (75') for two-family dwellings
and all other uses. The frontage of any wedge shaped lot may be a minimum of
thirty five feet (35'), provided the width of the lot at the front building
line on the lot shall be not less than that specified above.
      3.   Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area shall be
covered with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within
the meaning of this provision.
      4.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot without the approval of the board of
adjustment.
      5.   All structures shall have not less than a twenty five foot (25')
front yard setback.
      6.   For a single- or two-family dwelling of one story, the minimum width
of the side yard shall be five feet (5') for interior lot lines and twenty five
feet (25') for the side yard abutting the side street on a corner lot. For
buildings of more than one story, the minimum width of the side yard on
interior lot lines shall be five feet (5').
      7.   A rear yard of twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot shall be
provided for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory use may
be located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line.
   D.   Area And Height Regulations For R-3 Multi-Family Districts:
 
       Minimum   Minimum  Maximum    Maximum Minimum    Minimum     Minimum
       Lot Area  Lot      Percent    Height  Front Yard Side Yard   Rear Yard
                 Frontage Coverage           Setback    Setback     Setback
                                                        5 feet
       10,500                                            
Duplex square    75 feet  35 percent 35 feet 25 feet    25 feet     20 percent
       feet                                             street side
                                                        of corner
                                                        lots
       10,000
       square                                           5 feet
       feet +                                            
Multi- 2,000     100 feet 50 percent 35 feet 25 feet    25 feet     20 percent
family square                                           street side
       feet each                                        of corner
       unit over                                        lots
       2
 
All lots and improvements within the R-3 multi-family residential districts
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than seventy five feet
(75') for two-family dwellings, and one hundred feet (100') for multi-family
dwellings and all other uses. The frontage of any wedge shaped lot may be a
minimum of thirty five feet (35'), provided the width of the lot at the front
building line shall be not less than that specified hereinabove.
      2.   Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements, except that a duplex shall not exceed thirty five percent
(35%) coverage. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the meaning
of this provision.
      3.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
      4.   A minimum front yard setback of twenty five feet (25') shall be
provided on all duplex and multi-family dwellings.
      5.   For duplex and multi-family dwellings, the minimum side yard setback
shall be five feet (5'). For dwellings and accessory buildings located on
corner lots, the side yard setback from the intersecting street shall be twenty
five feet (25').
      6.   A rear yard of twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot shall be
provided for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory use may
be located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-7-4: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory uses that are incidental to permitted uses in the residential
districts and are not detrimental to the adjacent property or character of the
zone including guesthouses, employee's quarters, private garages, barns and
sheds are permitted subject to the area and height regulations in section
11-7-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Accessory uses may include the following accessory signs, subject to
provisions of section
11-7-5 of this chapter: bulletin boards, identification signs, nameplates, real
estate signs and subdivision signs. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-7-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall
be permitted in the residential district, except as follows:
   A.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
   B.   One nonilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or occupants, or
name or address of the premises may be erected on any single- or two-family
residential structures.
   C.   In any R-1, R-2 or R-3 district, a temporary bulletin board or sign not
exceeding eight (8) square feet in area, pertaining to the lease, hire or sale
of a building or premises may be temporarily erected on any lot, which board or
sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold;
provided, however, that a temporary project sign not exceeding one hundred
sixty (160) square feet in area, pertaining to the lease or sale of lots and/or
improvements within a subdivision may be temporarily erected within the
subdivision upon a conditional use permit, which sign shall be removed as soon
as eighty five percent (85%) of the lots within the subdivision have been sold.
   D.   In any R-1 and R-2 district, one bulletin board may be erected on each
street frontage of an educational, religious, institutional or similar use
requiring announcement of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in height; and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   E.   In any R-3 district, one nonilluminated nameplate not exceeding twenty
four (24) square feet in area, identifying the name and use of the premises,
may be erected on any structure other than a single- or two-family structure or
an accessory building to such a structure. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: General Description
11-8-2: Permitted Uses
11-8-3: Lot, Yard And Height Regulations
11-8-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Generally: The regulations for the commercial districts are designed
to:
      1.   Encourage stable and efficient commercial areas to meet the needs
for commercial goods and services of the trade area;
      2.   Minimize the adverse effects of commercial uses on other land uses;
and
      3.   Provide opportunities for investment with development of residential
areas and thoroughfares.
   B.   Specific Districts:
      1.   C-1 Office District: This commercial district is for the conduct of
general and professional office and related activity to meet the needs of the
community in such a manner as to not be offensive to a general neighborhood
containing residential, religious, recreational and educational elements. It is
intended that this district be located so as not to introduce traffic onto
solely residential streets or become an intrusion into a residential district,
but to serve as a buffer between residential and more intensive commercial
activities.
      2.   C-2 Convenience Commercial District: This commercial district is
intended for a unified grouping in one or more buildings of retail shops and
stores and personal services of a limited size and service area that provide
for the regular needs and are for the convenience of the people residing in the
adjacent residential neighborhoods where retail shops and personal services are
not otherwise readily available. It is intended that the suburban convenience
center be developed as a unit with adequate off street parking space for
customers and employees, and with appropriate landscaping and screening.
      3.   C-3 Planned Shopping Center District: This commercial district is
intended for a unified grouping, in one or more buildings, of retail shops and
stores that provide for the regular needs and are for the convenience of the
people residing in the community. It is intended that the planned shopping
center be developed as a unit, with adequate off street parking space for
customers and employees, and with appropriate landscaping and screening
materials.
      4.   C-4 Restricted Commercial District: This commercial district is
established for major retail and service activity removed from the C-3 planned
shopping center district with major thoroughfare access and provided with
adequate open space and parking.
      5.   C-5 Automotive And Commercial Recreation District: This commercial
district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for
establishments offering accommodations, supplies or services to motorists, and
for certain specialized uses such as retail outlets, extensive commercial
amusement and service establishments which serve the entire community but do
not and should not necessarily locate in more restrictive commercial districts.
      6.   C-6 General Commercial District: This commercial district is
designed for the conduct of personal and business services and the general
retail trade of the community. It is designed to accommodate a wide variety of
commercial uses in the C-3 planned shopping center district or areas of mixed
business enterprises. It will not normally be applied in the case of new
commercial areas. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses in the commercial districts are set forth in the table
below. Where the letter "x" appears on the line of a permitted use and in the
column of a district, the listed use is permitted in that district, subject to
the general provisions of this title as set forth in the preceding chapters.
Where the letter "p" appears instead of the letter "x", this use is permitted
subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in section
11-2-2 of this title.
Permitted Uses Zoning District
               C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6
Permitted Uses                                          Zoning District
                                                        C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6
Addressing, duplicating, mailing, mailing list,
stenographic, telephone messages and similar office     x   x   x   x   x   x
services
Advertising agency                                      x   x   x   x   x   x
Aircraft parts, other than airframes or engines; sales,                 x   x
service, rental or repair
Amusement park, commercial                                      p   p   x   x
Animal hospital serving household pets and similar          p       p   p
small animals
Antique store                                                   x   x   x   x
Apparel and accessories store                           x   x   x   x   x
Armature rewinding shop                                                 x   x
Armored car service                                                     x   x
Artists or photographers studio not including the       x   x   x   x   x   x
processing of film for others
Auctioneer office                                       x   x   x   x   x   x
Auditorium or arena                                             x   x   x   x
Automobile accessory and supply store                       p   x   x   x   x
Automobile and truck rental                                     x   x   x   x
Automobile and truck sales (new and used) and service       x   x   x   x
Automobile body shop                                            x   x   x   x
Automobile parking or storage, as a principal use               x   x   x   x
Automobile wash service including self-service                  x   x   x   x
Automotive service station, not including body or motor p   x   x   x   x
repair or painting
Bait shop                                                           x   x   x
Bank                                                    x   x   x   x   x   x
Bar                                                             p   x   x   x
Barber shop or beautyshop                               x   x   x   x   x   x
Bicycle store                                               x   x   x   x   x
Billiard or pool parlor                                         x   x   x   x
Blueprinting, photocopying and similar reproductive     p   x   x   x   x   x
services
Boarding or rooming house                               p   p               x
Boat and marine rental, repair, sales                                   x   x
Bookstore                                                   x   x   x   x   x
Bowling alley                                                   x   x   x   x
Broadcasting or recording studio                        x   x   x   x   x   x
Building supplies, including sale of lumber                         x   x   x
Bus station                                                         x   x   x
Camera and photographic supply store                        x   x   x   x   x
Carnival, circus or similar temporary amusement                 p   p   x   x
enterprise
Childcare institution: (8 or more) other than day       p   p   x   x   x   x
nursery
Church, synagogue or temple, including Sunday school    x   x   x   x   x   x
facilities
City, County, school district, State or Federal         p   p   x   x   x   x
facilities
City or County Jail                                                     x   x
Civil defense and related activities facilities         x   x   x   x   x   x
Clinic, dental, medical or osteopathic, chiropodist,    x   x   x   x   x   x
pharmacy
Clothing: custom dressmaking or altering for retail,            x   x   x   x
including tailoring and millinery
Clothing, secondhand                                            x   x   x   x
College, junior college, professional school: public or p       x   x   x   x
equivalent private
Community center: public                                p       x   x   x   x
Computing, data processing or similar service           x       x   x   x   x
Conforming metal building                               x   x   x   x   x   x
Convalescent, maternity or nursing home                 x   x   x   x   x   x
Custom ceramic products                                             x       x
Dance hall                                                          x   x   x
Delivery service                                                x   x   x   x
Department store                                                x   x   x   x
Detective or protective service                                     x   x   x
Diaper service                                                      x   x   x
Direct selling organization                                     x   x   x   x
Disinfecting, deodorizing or exterminating service                  x   x   x
Drafting service                                        x   x   x   x   x   x
Drive-in restaurant not serving beer                                x   x   x
Driving school, private                                             x   x   x
Drugstore or proprietary store                              x   x   x   x   x
Dry cleaning and dyeing plant                                       x   x   x
Dry cleaning, pick up or self- service                      x   x   x   x   x
Dry goods store                                                 x   x   x   x
Eating place other than drive- in, not serving beer or      x   x   x   x   x
providing dancing or entertainment
Electric regulating substation                          p   p   p   p   p   p
Electrical supplies                                             x   x   x   x
Employment service                                      x       x   x   x   x
Farm equipment sales, service, rental, repair                       x   x   x
Feed and fertilizer sales                                           x   x   x
Financial institution, other than pawnshop              x       x   x   x   x
Fire extinguisher service                                           x   x   x
Fire protection and related activities facility         x       x   x   x   x
Florist shop                                                x   x   x   x   x
Food locker plant                                                       x   x
Food store, including bakery (retail only)                  x   x   x   x   x
Fraternal organization                                  p       x   x   x   x
Freight forwarding service                                              x   x
Funeral home, mortuary or undertaking establishment     x   x   x   x   x   x
Fur repair and storage                                              x   x   x
Furniture and home furnishings, sales and repair            x   x   x   x   x
Garage or parking for commercial or public utility                  p   x   x
vehicles
Garden supply store                                         x   x   x   x   x
Gas pressure control station                            p   p   p   p   p   p
Gasoline service station                                    x   x   x   x   x
General store: general merchandise store                    x   x   x   x   x
Gift, novelty or souvenir shop                              x   x   x   x   x
Golf course, including commercially operated driving                    x   x
range or miniature golf course
Golf driving range, commercial                                          x   x
Gunsmith shop                                                   x   x   x   x
Hardware store                                              x   x   x   x   x
Hat cleaning or repair shop                                     x   x   x   x
Heating equipment                                                   x   x   x
Highway or street maintenance garage, yard or similar                   x   x
facility
Hospital, health center                                         x   x   x   x
Hospital restricted to mental, narcotics or alcoholic               p   x   x
patients, sanatorium
Hotel or motel                                                      x   x   x
Household appliance store                                       x   x   x   x
Ice vending establishment                                   x   x   x   x   x
Interior decorating shop                                p   x   x   x   x   x
Jewelry sales and repair                                    x   x   x   x   x
Laboratory: research, development or testing            x       x   x   x   x
Laundry, pick up station only                               x   x   x   x   x
Laundry plant                                                           x   x
Laundry, self-service                                       x   x   x   x   x
Leather goods or luggage store                              x   x   x   x   x
Library: private, nonprofit and public, other than      p   p   x   x   x   x
branch
Limited price variety store                                 x   x   x   x   x
Linen supply or industrial laundry                                  x   x   x
Liquor store                                                p   x   x   x   x
Locksmith, key shop                                         x   x   x   x   x
Lumber                                                                  x   x
Mail order house: catalog office or retail store                x   x   x   x
Medical or dental clinic                                x   x   x   x   x   x
Medical or dental laboratory                                x   x   x   x   x
Medical marijuana dispensary                            x   x   x   x   x   x
Ministorage, inside only                                        p   p   p   p
Mobile homes or travel trailers, sales and service              x   x   x   x
Monument sales                                                      x   x   x
Motion picture distribution and service                                 x   x
Motion picture theater                                      x   x   x   x
Motion picture theater, drive-in                                        x   x
Museum or art gallery                                   p   x   x   x   x
Music, musical instruments or phonograph record store       x   x   x   x   x
Newspaper offices, print shop                                   x   x   x
Newsstand                                                   x   x   x   x   x
Nursery school or day nursery                           p   p   x   x   x   x
Office equipment and supplies, retail sales, service,           x   x   x   x
rental or repair
Office: general, nonprofit membership association,      x   x   x   x   x   x
professional and governmental
Oil field or oil well supplies                                          x   x
Optician or optometrist                                 x   x   x   x   x   x
Outdoor advertising plant                                               x   x
Paint, glass or wallpaper store                                 x   x   x   x
Parish house, parsonage or rectory                              x   x   x   x
Pawnshop                                                        x   x   x   x
Pet shop                                                        x   x   x   x
Photofinishing service                                      x   x   x   x   x
Picture framing                                             p   x   x   x   x
Pipeline pressure control station                       p   p   p   p   p   p
Plumbing fixtures, sales and service                            x   x   x   x
Police protection and related activities facilities     p   p   x   x   x   x
Postal service facilities                               p   p   x   x   x   x
Printing or publishing, including engraving or                  x   x   x   x
photoengraving
Radio, television, phonograph or other household                x   x   x   x
electronics equipment store
Radio transmitting station or tower, other than amateur         x   x   x   x
Railroad passenger terminal                                             x   x
Religious goods store                                       x   x   x   x   x
Sales, service, repair or rental of business machines           x   x   x   x
School, elementary: public or equivalent private        x   x   x   x   x   x
School, private: barber, beauty, business, commercial   x   x   x   x   x   x
art, correspondence, stenographic, trade or vocational
School, secondary: public or equivalent private         x   x   x   x   x   x
Sewage pressure control station                         p   p   p   p   p   p
Sewing machine store                                        x   x   x   x   x
Shoe sales and repair                                       x   x   x   x   x
Sign painting                                                       x   x   x
Skating rink                                                            x   x
Sporting goods sales                                        x   x   x   x   x
Stadium, arena or similar facility                              p   p   p   p
Stationery store                                            x   x   x   x   x
Store selling architects', artists', or engineers'
supplies and equipment or dental, medical or office             x   x   x   x
supplies or equipment
Studio: photographic, musical, fine arts                    x   x   x   x   x
Swimming pool, public                                   p       p   p   p   p
Taxicab garaging and maintenance                                        x   x
Taxicab stand or dispatching station                    p   p   x   x   x   x
Taxidermist                                                     x   x   x   x
Telegraph transmitting or receiving station                     x   x   x   x
Telephone exchange, including garage, shop or service                   x   x
facilities
Television transmitting station or relay tower                  x   x   x   x
Tennis courts: public                                   x   x   x   x   x   x
Tobacco store                                               x   x   x   x   x
Toy store                                                   x   x   x   x   x
Transportation ticket service                           p   x   x   x   x   x
Travel arranging service                                p   x   x   x   x   x
Truck sales                                                         x   x   x
Variety store                                                   x   x   x   x
Vending machines: sales, service, rental or repair                      x   x
Venetian blind cleaning                                         x   x   x
Veterinarian hospital with inside runs only                             x   x
Veterinarian hospital with outside runs                                 p   p
Veterinarian, office only                               x   x   x   x   x   x
Warehousing, inside storage only                                    p   x   x
Warehousing, outside storage                                            x   x
Water filtration plant, pump station, elevated storage, p   p   p   p   p   p
or reservoir
Wholesale establishment, stock limited to floor samples         x   x   x   x
Wholesale establishment with stocks not limited to                  p   x   x
floor samples
Window cleaning service                                                 x   x
 
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 978, 4-9-2018; Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019)
11-8-3: LOT, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No lot or yard shall be established or reduced in dimension or area in any
commercial district that does not meet the minimum requirements set forth
below. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged that will cause
the maximum lot coverage or maximum height regulations to be exceeded for such
districts as set forth in the following table: (Ord. 939, 1-14-2011)
               Zoning District
Lot Regulations C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 C-6
                 Zoning District
Lot Regulations   C-1    C-2              C-3    C-4    C-5    C-6
Minimum lot area  12,000 24,000 to 48,000 20,000 12,000 15,000 -
(square feet)1
Minimum lot width
at building line  100    100              100    100    100    -
(feet)2
Maximum lot                                                    -Yard regulation
coverage          40%    40%              40%    40%    40%    s (in feet):
(percent)3
Minimum front     50     50               50     50     50     50
yard4
Minimum rear      10     10               10     10     10     10
yard5
Minimum side      -      -                -      -      -      -
yard6
Height7           35     35               35     35     35     35
 
Notes:
   1.    The lot area of lots in the commercial districts shall be not less
than that as set forth in the table above; provided, that the area of any lot
in a C-2 district shall not exceed 48,000 square feet. There are no lot area
requirements in a C-6 district.
   2.    The width of lots in the commercial districts shall not be less than
that set forth in the table above. There are no minimum lot requirements in the
C-6 district.
   3.    The total building coverage of any lot shall not exceed that specified
in the table above; provided, however, that paving, landscaping, lighting
fixtures, and similar improvements shall not be considered as a part of the
total building coverage. There are no coverage requirements in the C-
6 district.
   4.    The front yard of any lot in the commercial districts shall be not
less than that specified in the table above; provided, however, that gasoline
pump islands may be permitted within the front yard as herein required.
   5.    The rear yard of any lot in the commercial districts shall be not less
than that specified in the table above; provided, however, that the rear yard
of any lot adjoining a residential district on the rear shall have a rear yard
setback of 2 feet for each 1 foot of building height, plus a screening wall or
fence as provided in section
11-4-7 of this title.
   6.    There are no side yard requirements on lots within the commercial
districts except where such lot abuts a residential district, in which case
there shall be a side yard setback of 2 feet for each 1 foot of building
height, plus a screening wall or fence as provided in section
11-4-7 of this title.
   7.    No building or structure in any commercial district shall exceed a
height of 35 feet except upon the approval of the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: General Description
11-9-2: Permitted Uses
11-9-3: Lot, Yard And Height Regulations
11-9-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Generally: The regulations for the industrial districts are designed
to:
      1.   Make available a range of suitable sites for all types of
manufacturing and related activities; and
      2.   Protect residences by separating them from manufacturing activities
and by prohibiting the use of such space for new residential or commercial
development.
   B.   Specific Districts:
      1.   I-1 Light Industrial District: The purpose of the I-1 light
industrial district is to provide a location for industries which do not by
their nature create nuisances. The intent is to preserve this land for industry
in a location beneficial to industries and to prohibit nonindustrial uses. Any
use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the I-1 light industrial
district, after the effective date hereof, shall be so operated as to comply
with the following standards:
         a.   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
         b.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as
incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
         c.   No noise, either continuous or intermittent, from any operation
conducted on the premises, other than that emanating from vehicular traffic,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the lot.
         d.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, or odorous or
particulate matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of
the lot on which the use is located.
         e.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot
on which the use is located.
         f.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
         g.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited.
         h.   No outside storage of equipment and/or material, except equipment
in daily use, shall be permitted in such a location where it can be viewed from
any public street.
         i.   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of light
shall be screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines.
      2.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District: The purpose of the I-2 heavy
industrial district is to provide a location for industries which may by their
nature create some nuisance. The intent is to preserve this land especially for
such industry in locations with access to arterial streets as designated on the
future land use plan map, as well as locations generally accessible to railroad
transportation. Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the
I-2 heavy industrial district after the effective date hereof shall be so
operated as to comply with the following standards. No use already established
on the effective date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the following standards:
         a.   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
         b.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as
incidental to or accessory to a permitted use.
         c.   No storage, manufacture, or assembly of goods shall be conducted
out of a building unless the nearest point of said activity is more than three
hundred feet (300') from the boundary of any zoning district.
         d.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
         e.   All manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, repairing,
storing, cleaning, servicing, and testing of goods, wares, and merchandise
shall be carried on in such a manner as not to be injurious or offensive by
reason of the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or other
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, odors, glare, heat, fire or
explosive hazards.
         f.   No activities involving storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
11-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses in industrial districts are set forth in the table below.
Where the letter "x" appears on the line of a permitted use and in the column
of a district, the listed use is permitted in that district subject to
conformance to special conditions applying to the districts as set forth in
section
11-9-1 of this chapter. Where the letter "p" appears instead of an "x", this
use is permitted subject to acquiring a conditional use permit as set forth in
section
11-2-2 of this title.
   TABLE OF PERMITTED USES IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Permitted Uses Zoning District
               I-1 I-2
Permitted Uses                                                  Zoning District
                                                                I-1 I-2
Abattoir (slaughterhouse)                                       p   p
Accessories for vehicles or equipment whose sale is permitted,  x   x
but not including the rebuilding or recapping of tires
Advertising agency                                              x   x
Aerosol containers: filling on contract basis                   x   x
Agricultural services                                           p   x
Air conditioning and heating equipment                          p   x
Aircraft parts: sales, service, rental or repair, including     x   x
airframes and engines
Aircraft transportation                                         p   p
Airway beacon or marker                                         x   x
Animal and marine fats and oils: manufacturing or processing    p   p
Animal and poultry slaughter and processing                     p   p
Animal bones, offal or waste: assembly, incinerator, processing p   p
or utilization
Animal hospital                                                 p   x
Apiary (beehives)                                                   x
Apparel and other textile products                              x   x
Armature rewinding shop                                         x   x
Armored car service                                                 x
Auctioneer (nonanimal)                                          x   x
Auditorium or arena: public                                     x   x
Automatic merchandising manufacture                             x   x
Automobile, bus, truck dismantling, salvaging or wrecking       p   p
Batching or mixing plant, asphaltic or portland cement,         p   x
concrete, mortar or plaster
Blueprinting, photocopying, and similar reproduction services   x   x
Bookbindery                                                     p   x
Bottling plant                                                  x   x
Brick, tile, or clay manufacturing                              p   x
Broadcasting or recording studio                                x   x
Brooms and brushes                                              x   x
Building materials                                              p   x
Building materials or lumber: wholesale sales                   x   x
Bus garaging and equipment maintenance                          p   x
Cabinet maker                                                   x   x
Canvas or canvas products                                       x   x
Carpentry, woodworking or furniture working                     x   x
Ceramic or clay products                                        x   x
Cesspool cleaning establishment                                 p
Chemicals, compounding or packaging                             p   x
City, county, school district, state or federal facilities      x   x
City or county jail                                             x   x
Civil defense and related activities facilities                 x   x
Coal preparation                                                p   x
Cold storage plant                                              p   x
Compounding of cosmetics, toiletries, drugs and pharmaceutical  x   x
products
Construction equipment repair, or storage                       p   x
Contract sorting, grading and packing of fruits and vegetables  p   x
for grower
Contractor (general or heavy construction) facilities other     p   x
than office
Contractor (special trade) facilities other than office         p   x
Cotton ginning and compressing                                  p   x
Creosoting or similar process                                   p   x
Dairy farm: products, egg farm                                  p   x
Delivery service                                                p   x
Direct selling organization, retail                             p   x
Disinfecting, deodorizing or exterminator service               p   x
Dry cleaning and dyeing plant                                   x   x
Electric generating plant                                       p   x
Electric regulating substation                                  p   x
Electric utility maintenance facility                           x   x
Electrical equipment manufacture                                x   x
Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture                   x   x
Exploration for minerals                                        p   p
Extraction of sand, gravel, clay, quarrying of rock             p   p
Facilities of ad hoc governmental agencies                      x   x
Fairgrounds                                                     x   x
Farm equipment: service, rental and repair                      x   x
Farm products, wholesaling, or public warehousing               p   x
Fertilizer                                                      p   p
Fire extinguisher service                                       x   x
Fire protection and related activity facility                   x   x
Food products, including bakery products, candy, fruit and
vegetable processing and canning, packing and processing of     x   x
meats and poultry, but not including slaughtering of animals or
poultry
Food products, including slaughtering of animals and poultry    p   x
Forestry services                                               p   x
Foundries                                                       p   x
Freight depot, railroad or truck                                x   x
Freight forwarding service                                      x   x
Furnace cleaning                                                    x
Furniture manufacturing                                         x   x
Garbage or trash: assembly incineration or processing               p
Gas pressure control station                                    p   x
Gas utility maintenance facility                                p   x
Gases or liquids, flammable, storage                                p
Glass or glass products                                             x
Grain milling or processing                                         x
Gymnasium/Workout Facility                                      p
Hair, felt, feathers or leather products                            x
Highway garage or similar public maintenance facility               x
Ice plants, dry or natural                                      x   x
Incinerators                                                        p
Instrument and meter manufacturing                              x   x
Jewelry manufacturing                                           x   x
Laboratory: research, development, or testing                   p   p
Laundry (except self-service) and laundry services              p   x
Leather goods fabrication                                       x   x
Linen supply or industrial laundry                              p   x
Livestock assembly, feeding, sales, shipment                        p
Livestock auction sales barn and pens                               x
Lumberyards                                                     x   x
Mattresses: rebuilding or renovating                            x   x
Medical or dental laboratory                                    x   x
Medical marijuana growing, processing, wholesale, or storage    x   x
facilities
Metals or minerals (except petroleum products or scrap) sales   x   x
Mining of coal, metal ores, and nonmetallic minerals other than     p
fuels
Ministorage with outside storage                                x   x
Mobile homes or travel trailers - manufacturing                     x
Monument works                                                      x
Motion picture distribution and services                        x   x
Nonmetallic mineral preparation                                     x
Oil field equipment and supplies: service, rental, or repair        x
Optical goods manufacturing                                     x   x
Ore dressing and beneficiating                                      x
Outdoor advertising plant                                       x   x
Packing and crating service                                     p   x
Paint, enamel, lacquer, turpentine, varnish manufacturing           p
Paper manufacturing or processing                                   p
Paper products including envelopes, stationery, wallpaper       x   x
manufacturing
Petroleum pipeline or pressure control station                  p   x
Petroleum products, storage                                         p
Photofinishing service                                          x   x
Pipeline pressure control station                               p   x
Plastic products including luggage, tableware or similar        x   x
products
Police protection and related activity facility                 x   x
Postal services facilities                                      x   x
Printing and publishing including engraving or photoengraving   x   x
Production of crude petroleum, natural gas and natural gas          p
liquids
Public stable                                                       p
Quarrying of stone                                                  p
Radio transmitting station or tower                             p   x
Railroad equipment storage or maintenance                           x
Railroad freight terminal                                           x
Repair, renting and servicing of commodities                        x
Rubber products, natural or synthetic manufacturing             p
Rug cleaning or repairing                                       p   x
School, commercial or trade                                     p   p
Scrap and waste materials handling, including building and          p
vehicle wrecking establishments and junkyards
Scrap steel cutting on contract basis                               x
Secondhand automotive parts, accessories, battery and tire          x
dealer
Sewage pressure control station                                 p   x
Sewage treatment plant or sludge drying bed                     p   x
Sporting or athletic equipment manufacturing                    x   x
Steel products, fabrication and assembly                            x
Tar or tar products                                                 x
Taxicab garaging and maintenance                                    x
Telegraph transmitting or receiving station                     p   x
Telephone exchange station, relay tower                         p   x
Television transmitting tower or receiving station              p   x
Tire recapping                                                      x
Truck, bus, train terminals                                     x   x
Truck service, rental, repair                                   x   x
Vending machines: service, rental, repair, manufacturing        x   x
Venetian blinds, window shades, awnings                         x   x
Warehousing, other than warehousing accessory to another        x   x
permitted use
Water treatment plant, storage facility or pressure control     p   x
station
Wholesaling                                                     x   x
Wholesaling or public warehousing of farm products, food,
grain, hides, skins, raw furs, livestock, petroleum products        x
(bulk station or terminal), scrap, or waste materials
Window cleaning service                                         x   x
Wood distillation                                                   x
Wood or lumber processing                                           x
 
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019; Ord. 2024-008, 8-12-2024)
11-9-3: LOT, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No lot or yard shall be established or reduced in dimension or area in any
industrial district that does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in
the following table. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged that
will cause the maximum lot coverage or maximum height regulations to be
exceeded for such district as set forth below:
               Zoning District
Lot Regulations I-1 I-2
                               Zoning District
Lot Regulations                 I-1 I-2
Maximum lot coverage (percent)1 40  40
Yard regulations (in feet):
Minimum front yard2             50  50
Minimum rear yard3              20  20
Minimum side yard4              --  --
Height5                         50  50
 
Notes:
   1.    The total building coverage of any lot shall not exceed that specified
above; provided, however, that paving, landscaping, outside storage (where
permitted), lighting fixtures and similar improvements shall not be considered
as part of the total building coverage.
   2.    The front yard of any lot in the industrial district shall be not less
than that specified in the table above.
   3.    The rear yard of any lot in the industrial districts shall be not less
than that specified above; provided, however, that the rear yard of any lot
adjoining a residential district on the rear shall have a rear yard setback of
2 feet for each 1 foot of building height, plus a screening wall or fence as
provided in section
11-4-7 of this title.
   4.    There are no side yard requirements on lots within the industrial
districts except where such lot abuts a residential district, in which case
there shall be a side yard setback of 2 feet for each 1 foot of height, plus a
screening wall or fence as provided in section
11-4-7 of this title.
   5.    No building or structure in any industrial district shall exceed a
height as set forth in the table above.
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 10
FLOODPLAIN SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purposes
11-10-2: District Boundaries
11-10-3: General Floodplain Regulations
11-10-4: Permitted Uses
11-10-5: Nonconformities
11-10-6: Responsibility For Flooding
11-10-1: PURPOSES:
The floodplain supplemental district is designed to:
   A.   Protect life;
   B.   Reduce and prevent flood damage;
   C.   Reduce public expenditures in areas subject to flooding;
   D.   Permit reasonable use of land in areas subject to flooding;
   E.   Promote the general welfare of the community; and
   F.   Prevent or reduce flood damage by keeping floodways free of manmade
obstructions to permit the free flow and discharge of floodwater. (Ord. 939,
11-14-2011)
11-10-2: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The initial boundaries of the floodplain supplemental district shall be
established only after notice and public hearing before the planning and zoning
commission and by approval of the city commission. Amendments to the floodplain
districts shall be established in the same manner as amendments to any other
zoning district as set forth in chapter 12 of this title including provisions
for fees and public notice. Lands within the floodplain supplemental district
shall be identified on the official zoning map by the suffix FD following the
general zoning district designation. The boundaries of the floodplain
supplemental district may be amended so as to maintain uniformity with the
purposes of this title upon a finding that:
   A.   A flood control project of the federal, state, county or city
government, or a private person, has substantially altered the boundaries of
the floodway;
   B.   Flood data compiled subsequent to the enactment of the district
indicates that the boundaries of the district should be adjusted; or
   C.   Proposed improvements such as berms, dikes, channel improvements or
flood retention reservoirs which will substantially alter the boundaries of the
floodway and the actual construction of said improvements has been assured by
the submission and acceptance of bond. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-10-3: GENERAL FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS:
The following general regulations apply to the use of land located within an FD
floodplain supplemental district:
   A.   Structures shall be designed and constructed to withstand flood
conditions.
   B.   Materials which in time of flood might float away and lodge against
bridge abutments or otherwise serve to restrict the flood discharge capacity of
the water channel are prohibited. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-10-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Within an FD floodplain supplemental district, the following uses are
permitted as a right:
      1.   Passive agricultural uses such as:
      Cultivation.
      Forestry.
      Grazing.
      Planting.
      2.   Open land uses such as:
      Arboretum.
      Flood management project.
      Reservoir.
      Wildlife preserve.
      3.   Public uses such as:
      Fire alarm.
      Historical marker.
      Street sign.
      Thoroughfare.
      Utility line.
      4.   Open air recreational uses such as:
      Golf courses, driving ranges.
      Parks, picnic grounds, etc.
   B.   Certain uses (listed below) may be permitted by the board of adjustment
after adherence to the procedural requirements for a special exception, and
upon the board's finding that:
      1.   The use will not substantially affect or be affected by the flow of
waters during times of flood.
      2.   The use will not impair the appropriate use, present or future, of
neighboring property, and that the use will be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of this title.
   C.   The uses which may be permitted by the board of adjustment are:
      1.   Parking.
      2.   Temporary outside storage of materials.
      3.   Temporary amusement enterprises.
      4.   Other open air uses not requiring the erection of permanent
principal structures, but which may require the erection of accessory
structures.
   D.   All other uses are prohibited within an FD floodplain supplemental
district.
   E.   Uses approved by the board which are not permitted within the
applicable general use district shall abate within one year from the date of
amendment to the official zoning map removing the floodplain supplemental
district designation from the land upon which the use is located. (Ord. 939,
11-14-2011)
11-10-5: NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Conditions For Continuation: A structure lawfully existing in a
floodplain supplemental district at the effective date of said floodplain
supplemental zoning and which would be prohibited in said floodplain
supplemental district shall be deemed nonconforming and may continue subject to
the following provisions:
      1.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged.
      2.   Should such structure be damaged or partially destroyed by any means
to the extent of seventy five percent (75%) of its current replacement cost at
the time of damage, said structure shall not be restored.
      3.   Ordinary repairs may be made on any nonconforming structure,
provided said structure is not enlarged. If a nonconforming structure becomes
physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance and a
final order of vacation or demolition is entered by a duly authorized official
by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be used, restored,
repaired or rebuilt.
   B.   Construction Of Permanent Principal Structure Prohibited: No
construction of a permanent principal structure shall be allowed on any lot
located within a floodplain supplemental district even though said lot was
filed of record or was within a subdivision approved by the city commission
prior to the effective date of the floodplain supplemental zoning in said
district. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-10-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR FLOODING:
The fact that land or property is not included within a floodplain or flood
hazard area as authorized by section
11-10-2 of this chapter shall not constitute assurance that such land or
property is not subject to flooding and shall not be so interpreted. (Ord. 939,
11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 11
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purposes
11-11-2: Application For Special District; Fee
11-11-3: General Provisions
11-11-4: Permitted Uses
11-11-5: Bulk And Area Requirements
11-11-6: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-11-7: Design Statement; Fees
11-11-8: Public Hearings
11-11-9: Abandonment
11-11-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   Where existing zoning classifications of districts such as residential,
commercial, and industrial may not adequately deal with problems raised by such
uses as hospitals, universities, churches and banks, but not limited thereto,
there is hereby established the category of "special district".
   B.   The special district is an overlay district, put down on top of a basic
zoning district, or regular zoning districts.
   C.   In the special district, provision is made for the needs of the
institutional use, and an attempt is made to anticipate its impact on the
neighborhood. The goal is to avoid conflict between the institution and the
neighbors occasioned by repeated requests for changes in the traditional zoning
regulations contained herein.
   D.   A neighborhood may believe special treatment under this title could
preserve a particular character.
   E.   A special district may also serve to single out specific areas for
special treatment because an area may perceive that it is threatened by a
particular market force or offensive development. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-2: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL DISTRICT; FEE:
   A.   Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or combination
thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to a tract of
land less than ten (10) acres in size may make application for the approval of
a special district by filing an application for an outline design plan and a
supplemental zoning district designation special district.
   B.   An application for the approval of an outline design plan and the
supplemental district designation special district may be processed
simultaneously with and contingent upon an application for an amendment to the
zoning map of the city.
   C.   An application for a special district shall be filed with the planning
and zoning commission. The application shall be accompanied by the payment of
filing fees established in subsection
11-11-7C of this chapter.
   D.   The application shall be in such form and content as the planning and
zoning commission may by resolution establish; provided, that three (3) copies
of an outline design plan shall accompany the filing of the application. The
outline design plan shall consist of maps and/or text which meet the
requirements specified in subsection
11-11-7A of this chapter. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Reversion Clause: If the special district site contains two (2) acres
or less, the design statement must include a reversion clause as follows:
If development of this SPECIAL DISTRICT does not commence within five (5) years
of its adoption by the City Commission, the site shall henceforth be developed
in accordance with the (state existing zoning district) District use and
development regulations and be subject to the regulations in Title 11, Chapter
4 of the City Code. For purposes of this provision, development shall be deemed
to have commenced upon the issuance of a City permit for fences, pools, work
order, platting, deed approval, etc., or upon the issuance of a City building
permit for any structure or development with the SPECIAL DISTRICT.
   B.   Application Of General Zoning District Regulations: The regulations of
the general zoning district or districts remain applicable except as
specifically modified pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. No
modifications of use or bulk and area requirements of the applicable general
use district or districts shall be permitted unless a subdivision plat
incorporating the provisions and requirements of this chapter is submitted to
and approved by the planning and zoning commission and city commission and
filed of record in the office of the county clerk of Kingfisher County. (Ord.
939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-4: PERMITTED USES:
In the special district, provision is made for the needs of the institutional
use, and an attempt is made to anticipate its impact on the neighborhood. The
goal is to avoid conflict between the institution and the neighbors occasioned
by repeated requests for changes in the traditional zoning regulations
contained herein. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-5: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: Within the special district, the maximum building
height shall be established in the outline development plan.
   B.   Building Setback: The building setback from the exterior boundaries of
the special district shall not be less than the minimum yards customarily
required for the district or districts in which located; provided, that within
two hundred feet (200') of any abutting property in an R-1 classification,
structures shall be set back twenty five feet (25') plus two feet (2') of
setback for each one foot (1') of building height exceeding fifteen feet (15').
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified in the
applicable use units and in conformance with the requirements of section
11-4-6, "Off Street Parking", of this title. A common parking area shall be
designed and located so as to be accessible to the structures it is intended to
serve. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-7: DESIGN STATEMENT; FEES:
   A.   Outline:
      1.   Name: Name of special district.
      2.   Introduction: This special district consists of (     ) square feet
or (     ) acres and is located (     ). The property is presently zoned
(     ).
      3.   Legal Description: The legal description of this special district is
(     ).
      4.   Owner/Developer: The owner/developer of this special district is
(     ).
      5.   Site And Surrounding Areas: This special district property is
presently developed with (     ). Surrounding properties are developed as
follows: (                                           ).
      6.   Physical Characteristics: The elevation of the special district is
(     ).
      Soil characteristics (               ).
      Tree cover (               ).
      Drainage information (               ).
Must include number of acres in the drainage area and delineation of applicable
flood levels.Topographic map (attach as an exhibit).
      7.   Concept: The concept of this special district is (     ).
      8.   Service Availability:Streets: (               ).
      Utilities (               ).
      Fire protection (               ).
      9.   Special Development Regulations: The following special development
regulations and/or limitations are placed upon the development carried out
under this special district. Certain zoning regulations referred to in this
text shall be those which appear in this title, as amended. For purposes of
clarification and interpretation, the operative and contributing language and
regulations of such zoning districts shall be the language and regulations
applicable to the referenced zoning districts as contained in this title, as
amended. In cases of conflict between provisions of this title and the
provisions of this special district, the special district provisions shall
supersede. The regulations are as follows:The following special conditions
listed in subsection A10 of this section shall not be changed or amended in any
way except by action of city commission after review and recommendation by the
planning and zoning commission.10. Use And Development Regulations: The use and
development regulations of the (          ) district shall govern this special
district, except as herein modified.
   SPECIAL CONDITIONS   
      A10a (                                         )
      11.   Common Area/Private Drainage: Drainage improvements, if required,
will be in accordance with the applicable sections of this code. Private
drainageways will be permitted and constructed in accordance with title 12,
chapter 7 of this code. Such private drainageways must be designed to handle
adequate flows and cannot be built without specific approval of the city
engineer. The maintenance will be the responsibility of the property owners.
      12.   Development Sequence: Provide a detail description of proposed
sequence of development.
      13.   Reversion: (Include only if property contains 2 acres or less.) See
subsection
11-11-3A of this chapter.
      14.   Exhibits: The following exhibits are hereby attached and
incorporated into the special district.
These exhibits are:      
   Exhibit A - Master development plan (required).   
   Exhibit B - Topography map (required).The master development plan shall be a
graphic representation of the development and conceptually portray the
development commitment described in the special district design statement. The
master development plan must be drawn on twenty four inch by thirty six inch
(24" x 36") paper or mylar at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), and shall show the following information:
         a. Location of proposed land uses and residential densities;
         b. Location of collector streets within the special district and
adjacent arterial streets;
         c. Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of the
special district to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed;d. Location and
approximate size of proposed open space and recreation areas; ande. Areas where
access to streets will be limited.
   B.   Affirmation Required:
      STATE OF OKLAHOMA      )
      COUNTY OF KINGFISHER   )
I affirm that the ownership list submitted as a part of this application for
rezoning contains the names of all owners of record of property which are
within 300 feet (or greater if required) of the property described in the
attached exhibit.
Executed at Kingfisher, Oklahoma, on the          day of                  
20      .
                                       .
         Applicant
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public, in and for the State of
              , County of               , on the       day of           ,
20      .
My Commission Expires:
                                                    
                      Notary Public
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
   C.   Filing And Hearing Fees Required: There shall be a filing fee and two
(2) public hearing fees, which shall be as set out in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code. Such fees may be adjusted
from time to time by the city manager. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
   D.   Design Statement Required: The applicant shall prepare a design
statement containing the following:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Section Introduction
      Section Legal Description
      Section Developer
      Section Site And Surrounding Areas
      Section Physical Characteristics
      Section Site Topography
      Section Soil Characteristics
      Section Tree Cover
      Section Drainage
      Section Topographic Map
      Section Concept
      Section Service Availability
      Section Streets
      Section Sanitary Sewerage System
      Section Water System
      Section Fire Protection
      Section Gas, Electricity, And Telephone
      Section Special Development Regulations
      Section Use And Development Regulations
      Section Special Conditions
      Section Building Setbacks
      Section Building Height
      Section Access
      Section Landscaping
      Section Signs
      Section Lighting
      Section Common Area/Private Drainage
      Section Development Sequence
      Section Architecture
      Section Exhibits
   E.   Copies Of Design Statement Required: Twenty five (25) copies of the
design statement and master development plan map are required for city staff
such as water, sewer, fire, police, building inspector, gas, planning
commission, city commission, et al., as example.
   F.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Copies, as follows:
         a.   Original plus two (2) copies of rezoning application.
         b.   Copies of ownership list.
         c.   Copies of warranty deed.
      2.   One letter of authorization from the property owner(s) if the
application is not signed by the property owner(s).
      3.   The ownership list must contain all property owners, their complete
mailing address and legal description, who own property within a three hundred
foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the special district. Radius
must increase in increments of one hundred feet (100') until no less than
fifteen (15) separate individuals are provided or the radius reaches one
thousand feet (1,000'). (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-8: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
There are two (2) public hearings for consideration of a special district:
   A.   Public Hearing And Planning Commission Action: The planning and zoning
commission, upon the filing of an application for the supplemental district
designation, special district, shall set the matter for public hearing and give
fifteen (15) days' notice thereof by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation. Where deemed necessary by the planning commission, additional
notice shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs on the property. Within
sixty (60) days after the filing of an application, the planning commission
shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
      1.   Whether the special district is consistent with the city's
comprehensive plan and/or the future land use plan.
      2.   Whether the special district harmonizes with the existing and
expected development of the surrounding areas.
      3.   Whether the special district is a unified treatment of the
development possibilities of the project site.
      4.   Whether the special district is consistent with the stated purposes
and standards of this section.
   B.   Recommendation To City Commission For Consideration: When a
supplemental district designation, special district, is approved, the planning
commission shall forward its recommendation, the application and the design
statement to the city commission for further hearing as provided in subsection
C of this section.
   C.   City Commission Action: Upon receipt of the application, design
statement plan, and planning commission recommendation, the city commission
shall hold a hearing, review the design statement, approve, disapprove, modify,
or return the design statement to the planning commission for further
consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map shall be amended to reflect the
supplemental designation special district, and the applicant shall be
authorized to proceed with development in accordance with the design statement
for a special district. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-11-9: ABANDONMENT:
Abandonment of a special district shall require the city commission's approval,
after recommendation by the planning commission, repealing the supplemental
designation of special district. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 12
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Planning Commission Recommendation Required
11-12-2: Application For Amendment; Fee
11-12-3: Notice And Public Hearing
11-12-4: Planning Commission Action
11-12-5: City Commission Action
11-12-6: Protest To Amendment
11-12-1: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED:
The regulations, restrictions, prohibitions and limitations imposed and the
districts created may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed,
modified or repealed by ordinance, but no change shall be made until the
planning commission, after notice and public hearing, files with the city
commission a report and recommendation on the proposed change. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011)
11-12-2: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT; FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An owner or his duly authorized agent or
representative may make application for the amendment of the zoning
restrictions applicable to his property by filing with the planning commission
a written application in such form and content as the planning commission may
by resolution establish. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Fee: An application for amendment shall be accompanied by the payment
of a fee in such amount as set by the board of commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this code to cover the
costs of notice and posting and administrative review. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011;
amd. 2013 Code)
11-12-3: NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of an application, the planning commission shall set a date for
public hearing not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days
from the date of filing. Fifteen (15) days' notice of the public hearing shall
be given by the planning commission by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. In addition to the notice provided in this section,
notice of public hearing of any zoning change shall be given by a sign or signs
as may be required, placed on the property affected by such proposed zoning
reclassification. Such sign (or signs) and the lettering thereon shall be of
sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and legible from the public street
or streets toward which it faces. It shall contain information giving the date,
time and place of the public hearing and by whom it shall be conducted, the
desired zoning classification, the proposed use of the property, and such other
information as deemed necessary to provide adequate and timely public notice.
(Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-12-4: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Planning Commission Vote: After notice and public hearing, the planning
commission shall vote to:
      1.   Recommend to the city commission that the application be approved as
submitted, or as amended, or be approved subject to modification; or
      2.   Recommend to the city commission that the application be denied.
   B.   Report And Recommendation: An application recommended for approval, or
approval subject to modification, shall be transmitted to the city with the
report and recommendation of the planning commission within fifteen (15) days
from the date of planning commission action. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
   C.   Denial; Request For Hearing:
      1.   An application recommended for denial shall not be considered
further, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the fee required in subsection
11-12-2B of this chapter shall be refunded (if previously paid) to the
applicant unless the applicant, within fifteen (15) days from the date of the
planning commission action, files a written request with the city commission
for a hearing, whereupon a fee in an amount set by the board of commissioners
as provided in the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this
code shall accompany the request for a hearing before the city. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
      2.   Upon notice of such request, and receipt of the required fee, the
planning commission shall forthwith transmit the application and its report and
recommendation and an approved copy of its minutes on the hearing to the city
commission.
      3.   The city clerk shall notify all interested parties of record before
the planning commission proceedings of the time and place of the consideration
of the appeal hereinabove provided for. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
11-12-5: CITY COMMISSION ACTION:
The city commission shall hold a public hearing on each application regularly
transmitted, or which has been transmitted pursuant to an appeal as provided
for in subsection
11-12-4C of this chapter. The city commission shall approve the application as
submitted and recommended by the planning commission, or approve the
application subject to modification, or deny the application, or return the
application to the city planning commission for further study. (Ord. 939, 11-
14-2011)
11-12-6: PROTEST TO AMENDMENT:
If a written protest against an amendment, change or repeal of this title or
any part thereof is presented, duly signed and acknowledged more than ten (10)
days prior to said public hearing by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or by the owners of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting any
side of the territory included in such proposed change, or separated therefrom
only by an alley or street less than three hundred feet (300') wide, such
amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of three-
fifths (3/5) of all the members of the city commission. (Ord. 939, 11-14-2011)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose And Intent
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Jurisdiction; Area Of Application
12-1-4: Application To Types Of Subdividing
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: Plat Approval, General Procedure
12-1-7: Official Recording
12-1-8: Agenda
12-1-9: Exemption And Amendment
12-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of
urban development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for
residential, commercial and industrial uses and for streets, alleys, schools,
parks and other public purposes will determine, to a large degree, the
conditions of health, safety, economy and amenity that prevail in the urban
area. The quality of these conditions is of public interest. These regulations
and standards for the subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to
make provision for adequate light, air open spaces, drainage, transportation,
public utilities and other needs, and to ensure the development and maintenance
of a healthy, attractive and efficient community that provides for the
conservation and protection of its human and natural resources.
   B.   Intent: The regulations of this title are designed, intended and should
be administered in a manner to:
      1.   Implement the comprehensive land use plan.
      2.   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight.
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts.
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed, be borne by the owners' developers.
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract.
      6.   Reconcile any differences of interest.
      7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (Ord.
938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These subdivision regulations and minimum standards for land development are
pursuant to the authority granted in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 45-101
through 45-104, as amended. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-3: JURISDICTION; AREA OF APPLICATION:
This title shall apply to the incorporated area of the city insofar as they
have been adopted by the planning commission and approved by the city
commission. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-4: APPLICATION TO TYPES OF SUBDIVIDING:
The regulations and development standards of this title shall apply to the
following forms of land subdivision:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites, or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than twenty
(20) acres in area; or
   B.   The division of land, previously subdivided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels of less than twenty (20) acres in area; or
   C.   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside of
which buildings may not be erected.
CITY: The city of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
CITY COMMISSION: The Kingfisher city commission.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive development or land use plan for the Kingfisher
area which has been officially adopted to provide long range development
policies for the area subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and
which includes, among other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision,
circulation and community facilities.
LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE: A double frontage lot which is to be developed with the
rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of ingress and
egress provided on a minor street.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Kingfisher planning commission.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for filing
of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and with
complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets
and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of all lines defining lots and
blocks, streets and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the character
and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street or a community
facility.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
having one end terminated by a turnaround.
STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE: A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the major street plan
or expressway plan or future land use plan.
STREET, MINOR: A street whose primary purpose is to provide access to adjacent
properties and which is designed so that its use by arterial traffic will be
discouraged.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity, acting
as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
SUBDIVISION: The division or redivision of land into two (2) or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for the
development or the dedication or vacation of a public or private right of way
or easement. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-6: PLAT APPROVAL, GENERAL PROCEDURE:
For all cases of subdividing within the scope of this title, a plat of land in
question shall be drawn and submitted to the planning commission for approval
or disapproval. All subdivisions located within the corporate limits of the
city shall then be submitted to the city commission for acceptance of public
streets, alleys and areas dedicated to public use. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-7: OFFICIAL RECORDING:
No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be filed in the office of
the county clerk until it shall have been approved by the planning commission
and by the city commission as hereinafter set forth. All final plats shall be
filed within two (2) years of the date of approval by the planning commission,
and no lots shall be sold from any plat until approved by the planning
commission and the city commission. Failure to record the plat within two (2)
years of the date of planning commission or city commission approval, whichever
is the later, shall void all approvals thereto. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-8: AGENDA:
Each plat admitted for preliminary or final approval shall be placed on the
agenda of the planning commission only after fulfilling the appropriate
requirements of this title. However, a plat not meeting all of the requirements
may be submitted, provided the subdivider presents with the plat a written
request of specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-1-9: EXEMPTION AND AMENDMENT:
   A.   Exemption: A plat containing four (4) lots or fewer may be exempted
from the provisions of all or part of procedural provisions contained in
section
12-2-1 of this title upon written approval of the planning commission; but such
exemption shall not change or diminish the requirements relating to design or
to improvements or to other provisions of this title.
   B.   Amendment; Hearing: The city commission may, from time to time, adopt,
amend, and make public rules and regulations for the administration of this
title to the end that the public be informed and that approval of plats be
expedited. This title may be enlarged or amended by the city commission after
public hearing, due notice of which shall be given as required by law. (Ord.
938, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION, VARIATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-2-1: Variation And Exceptions
12-2-2: Validity
12-2-3: Violations; Penalties
12-2-1: VARIATION AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions such that compliance with
this title would result in substantial hardship or inequity, the planning
commission may vary or modify, except as otherwise indicated, requirements of
design, but not of procedure or improvements, so that the subdivider may
develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the
public welfare is protected and the general intent and spirit of this title
preserved. Such modification may be granted upon written request of the
subdivider stating the reasons for each modification, and may be waived by an
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the membership of the planning
commission. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-2-2: VALIDITY:
If any section, clause, paragraph, provision or portion of this title shall be
held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
holding shall not affect any other section, clause, paragraph, provision or
portion of this title. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-2-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Building Permit Issuance Restricted: No building permit shall be issued
for any new structure or change, improvement or alteration of any existing
structure, on any tract of land which does not comply with all of the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Compliance Required: According to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 41-111,
no person, firm or corporation shall dispose of, offer for sale, or lease for
any time any lots or blocks in any municipality, addition or subdivision, or
part thereof, which are hereafter laid out, before all the requirements of
section
12-5-2 of this title are met.
   C.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of this title shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation
who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this title
shall be fined in an amount set by the board of commissioners as provided in
the fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division III of this code, for each
offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Urban Design Principle; Intent
12-3-2: Lots And Blocks
12-3-3: Circulation
12-3-4: Alleys
12-3-5: Easements
12-3-6: Public Areas And Open Spaces
12-3-7: Blocks
12-3-8: Lots
12-3-9: Building Lines
12-3-10: Neighborhood Unit Development
12-3-1: URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLE; INTENT:
   A.   Quality Of Design: The quality of design of the urban area is dependent
on the quality of design of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good
community design requires the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider
and developer of land within the urban area. Therefore, the city administration
and planning and zoning commission should assure the design of each subdivision
conforms with the principles established by the comprehensive plan, including
specific elements such as land use, circulation, community facilities and
public utility services, and in accordance with the general principles set out
in this chapter.
   B.   Intent: It is intended that the urban area should be designed as a
group of integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial and
industrial and public facilities. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-2: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Size: The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential,
commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate
light, air, open space, landscaping, off street parking and loading facilities.
   B.   Arrangement: The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system
should be designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural
physical features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved.
The system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to
take advantage of the visual qualities of the area. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-3: CIRCULATION:
Circulation within the urban area should be provided in accordance with the
following design criteria:
   A.   Arterial Streets: Each subdivision should provide for the continuation
of all arterial streets and highways as shown on the comprehensive plan, or
future land use plan. Arterial streets should be located on the perimeter of
the residential neighborhood.
   B.   Minor Streets:
      1.   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel of
land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in a
manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future urban expansion will not require the conversion of minor streets to
arterial routes.
      2.   Minor streets should be laid out so that their use by arterial
traffic will be discouraged.
   C.   Street Paralleling Certain Rights Of Way: Where a subdivision borders
on or contains a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way,
the planning commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on
each side of such right of way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use
of the intervening land. Such distances also should be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separation
structures.
   D.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets should be
prohibited except where their control is placed on the city under conditions
approved by the planning commission.
   E.   Partial Development; Future Street System: Where the plat to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by
the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion may be required by the planning commission.
   F.   Larger Than Normal Building Lots: When a tract is subdivided into
larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots or parcels should be
arranged to permit the logical location and opening of future streets and
appropriate resubdivision with provision for adequate utility easements.
   G.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') should be avoided.
   H.   Table Of Right Of Way And Paving Widths; Maximum Grade:
   URBAN RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL
   MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS
   BY STREET CLASSIFICATION
Street Classification Right Of Way Width  Paving Width (Feet) Maximum Grade
                      (Feet)                                  (Percent)
Street Classification Right Of Way Width  Paving Width (Feet) Maximum Grade
                      (Feet)                                  (Percent)
Residential development:
    Local (urban) 50                  26 W/CG             8
    Local (rural) 60                  26 W/CG             9
    Local collecto60                  32 W/CG             6
    Major collecto60                  32 W/CG             6
    Rural arterial100                 48 W/AS             6
    Minor arterial80                  48 W/CG             6
    Major arterial100                 48 W/CG             6
    Expressway N/F100                 48 W/AS             6
    Expressway W/F300                 48 W/AS             6
Nonresidential development:
    Local (urban) 50                  32 W/CG             6
    Local (rural) n/a                 n/a                 n/a
    Local collecto60                  32 W/CG             6
    Major collecto80                  32 W/CG             6
    Rural arterial100                 24 W/AS             6
    Minor arterial80                  48 W/CG             5
    Major arterial100                 48 W/CG             5
    Expressway N/F150 N/FR            48 W/AS             5
    Expressway W/F300                 48 W/AS             5
 
   W/CG    With curb and gutter
   W/GS    With graded shoulder
   W/AS    With asphalt shoulder
   W/FR    With frontage road
   N/FR    No frontage road
   n/a    Not applicable
   I.   Modification Of Grades; Drainage:
      1.   The grades of all streets should not exceed those stated in the
table in subsection H of this section, except where unusual topographic
conditions justify, in the opinion of the planning commission, a modification
of said standards.
      2.   No street shall be less than 0.3 percent (drainage necessary).
   J.   Paved Width: The paved width of all streets should be adequate to serve
the existing and future terminated traffic load for the facility. Land widths
for all streets shall be as follows:
See street standards as set by the planning and zoning commission, as approved
October 25, 2007.
      1.   Minimum Turnaround:
 
                                      Residential Business-
                                                  Industrial
Right of way diameter                 100 feet    120 feet
Pavement                              80 feet     100 feet
Center island diameter (if required)1 40 feet     50 feet
 
   Note:
        1.    If center island is increased, the diameter of the turnaround
shall increase proportionally.
      2.   Maximum Length Of Cul-De-Sac:
         a.   Permanent: A cul-de-sac shall not exceed one thousand feet
(1,000') in length, measured from the centerline of the intersecting street to
the center of the turnaround. A circular turnaround having a radius of not less
than fifty feet (50') at the property line and not less than forty two feet
(42') at the face in front of the curb shall be provided.
         b.   Temporary: A cul-de-sac shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') in length in residential districts.
   K.   Cul-De-Sacs:
      1.   Residential: A cul-de-sac should not exceed one thousand feet
(1,000') in length, measured from the centerline of the intersecting street and
the center of the cul-de-sac. If a cul-de-sac is more than one hundred fifty
feet (150') in length, it should be provided with a turnaround having a radius
of not less than fifty feet (50') at the property line and not less than thirty
eight feet (38') at the curb line. If an unpaved island is included in the cul-
de-sac, it shall not have a radius less than twelve feet (12') or more than
sixteen feet (16'). Any unpaved island should be improved with grass and
landscaping in such a manner that it will not interfere with sight distance.
      2.   Nonresidential: The radius at the property line shall not be less
than sixty feet (60') and not less than fifty feet (50') at the curb line.
   L.   Half Streets: Half streets should be prohibited except where they are
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of this title; and provided, that the planning
commission finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other
half of the street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever
a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the
street should be platted within such tract.
   M.   Arrangement Of Streets: The arrangement of streets should be such as to
cause no hardship in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The planning
commission may require the dedication of street rights of way to facilitate the
development of adjoining properties.
   N.   Street Names: No street names should be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names should be subject to
the approval of the planning commission.
   O.   Streets Serving Commercial Areas: Streets serving commercial areas
should have rights of way not less than sixty feet (60') with a paved width not
less than forty feet (40').
   P.   Streets Serving Industrial Areas: Streets serving industrial areas
should have rights of way not less than eighty feet (80') with a paved width
not less than fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-4: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, except
that the planning commission may waive this requirement where other definite
and assured provision is made for service access, such as off street loading,
unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   B.   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas should not be less than
thirty feet (30') in width.
   C.   Alleys may be required for residential areas and they should be not
less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   D.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be avoided;
but where necessary, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities
at the dead end, as determined by the planning commission.
   E.   The developer shall pave alleys with concrete or asphalt. All paving
shall meet the city engineering standards. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Required: Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than twenty
feet (20') wide should be provided where possible along rear lot lines and
along side lot lines where necessary, for use by public and private utilities.
The planning commission may require aerial easements and easements of greater
width for the extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities
where it is deemed necessary.
   B.   Right Of Way For Drainage: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage channel or stream which drains one hundred sixty (160)
acres or more of land, there shall be provided a right of way for drainage and
public parks and utility purposes, adequate to contain all of the runoff from a
50-year maximum flood. The right of way shall include all of the land within
the subdivision that has an elevation, which shall be calculated to provide for
the drainage requirements of the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
(Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
   C.   Design:
Telephone pedestals.
   Gas meters.
Telephone lines, eighteen inch (18") depth.
Natural gas lines, twenty four inch (24") depth.
Sewer line to grade.
Underground power - forty eight inch (48") primary, twenty four inch (24')
secondary.
Cable TV lines, eighteen inch (18") depth.
Cable TV pedestals.
Underground transformers - twenty four inch (24") depth.
Water lines, twenty four inch (24") depth. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013
Code)
   D.   Installation And Inspection:
      1.   Utility easements shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') with ten
feet (10') coming from each property adjoining the centerline of the
subdivision easement. In the event that property adjoining the subdivision
easement is not being developed, then a fifteen foot (15') wide easement will
be allowed with the approval of the building inspector. In that instance, the
total easement width will come from the subdivision property. Utilities will be
located in the easement as outlined in the above guide.
      2.   The utility easements shall be surveyed and marked by the developer
with stakes locating the center and sides of the easement. No structures other
than those necessary to serve the above utilities will be located on the
utility easement. No fence shall be located on a utility easement. Easements
shall be dedicated to the city in the manner provided in this title. Easements
shall be mowed by the adjoining property owners to the center of the easement.
In the event that the easement is located on a single property, then that
property owner shall mow the entire easement. When a utility is installed or
repaired, it will be the responsibility of those making that installation or
repair to return the easement to a mowable condition. Backfilling of all
excavations shall be compacted in such a manner so that settling shall not
occur. If settling occurs, those making such installations shall backfill the
settled ditch in a timely fashion. If backfilling is not done in a timely
fashion, the city shall backfill or cause to be backfilled and bill the repairs
to the appropriate party.
      3.   Before any digging shall occur within an easement, a permit shall be
obtained from the city building inspector. Prior to digging, the appropriate
agencies shall be notified of intentions to dig, as might be required by state
statutes. It shall be the responsibility of the developer and the building
inspector or his agent to ensure that utilities are installed in the required
location. It shall be the responsibility of the building inspector to determine
what position a utility shall take when turning a corner is necessary in the
installation of utilities. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-6: PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACES:
Public parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other public areas and open space
should be provided in accordance with the requirements and standards set forth
in the future land use plan and in the ordinances and regulations relating
thereto. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-7: BLOCKS:
   A.   Generally: The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks should be
determined with due regard for the following:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Width: Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient
width to allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriated depth. Blocks intended
for business and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended
use, with due allowance for off street parking and loading facilities. (Ord.
938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-8: LOTS:
   A.   Width: Residential lots should be not less than fifty feet (50') in
width at the front building line and shall abut a street a distance of not less
than thirty feet (30'), except that a corner lot shall be not less than sixty
feet (60') in width at the front building line.
   B.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles
or radial to street lines.
   C.   Depth: The depth of residential lots should not be less than ninety
feet (90').
   D.   Area: The area of residential lots shall be not less than four thousand
five hundred (4,500) square feet.
   E.   Individual Sewage Disposal Devices: In residential subdivisions where
septic tanks or individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the
area of the lot should be not less than twenty two thousand five hundred
(22,500) square feet, or as required by the state health department where water
wells are involved, and the width of the lot at the front building line should
be not less than one hundred (100) square feet.
   F.   Commercial And Industrial Use: Lots are not required for subdivision
for commercial and industrial use; but when provided, they should be of
appropriate size and arrangement to provide for adequate off street parking and
loading facilities based on the intended use.
   G.   Double Frontage And Reverse Frontage:
      1.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of development from
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      2.   A planting screen easement of at least twenty feet (20') in width
shall be provided along the portion of the lots abutting such traffic artery or
other use where screening is required.
      3.   There shall be no right of access across a planting screen easement.
(Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-9: BUILDING LINES:
Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions as follows:
   A.   A front building line shall be located at least twenty five feet (25')
back of the street right of way line.
   B.   A side yard building line on the side or a corner lot abutting the
street shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') back of the street
right of way when such lot is back to back with another lot and not less than
twenty five feet (25') back of the street right of way line in every other
case, as set forth in the zoning regulations, section
11-7-3 of this code. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-3-10: NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever a subdivision is developed as a neighborhood unit, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the
planning commission may vary the requirements of this chapter in order to allow
the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but at the
same time protect the convenience, health, safety and welfare of the probable
future residents of the subdivision as well as the character of the surrounding
property and the general welfare of the entire community. However, in no case
shall the lot area be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet for detached
single-family dwellings. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Compliance With Minimum Standards
12-4-2: Plan Preparation
12-4-3: Assurance For Completion And Maintenance
12-4-4: Inspection And Maintenance Of Improvements
12-4-5: Permanent Markers
12-4-6: Street Improvements
12-4-7: Sidewalks
12-4-8: Water Lines
12-4-9: Sanitary Sewers And Septic Tanks
12-4-10: Maintenance And Supervision
12-4-11: Expansion And/Or Extension Of Electric Distribution System
12-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM STANDARDS:
All improvements should be designed and installed in accordance with all of the
elements of the general plan and/or land use plan and should meet the minimum
standards established by the ordinances and regulations relating thereto. (Ord.
938, 11-14-2011)
12-4-2: PLAN PREPARATION:
Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by a qualified
engineer, registered in the State of Oklahoma. Two (2) sets of prints of the
proposed plans and specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the
Planning Commission at the time of submission of the final plat. One set of as
built plans and specifications, certified and signed by an engineer registered
in the State of Oklahoma, shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the
acceptance by the City Commission of any improvements installed by the
subdivider. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-4-3: ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Improvements And Performance Bond:
      1.   Completion Of Improvements: Before the plat is signed by the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission, all applicants should be required to
complete, in accordance with the Planning Commission's decision and to the
satisfaction of the Kingfisher City Engineer, all the street, sanitary, and
other improvements including lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision as required in this title, specified in the final subdivision plat,
and as approved by the Planning Commission, and to dedicate same to the local
government, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and
public improvements thus dedicated.
      2.   Performance Bond May Be Required:
         a.   The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may waive the
requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements
prior to the signing of the subdivision plat, and that, as an alternative, the
applicant post a bond at the time of application for final subdivision approval
in an amount estimated by the Planning Commission as sufficient to secure to
the local government the satisfactory construction, installation, and
dedication of the uncompleted portion of required improvements. The performance
bond should also secure all lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision as required in this title.
         b.   Such performance bond should comply with all statutory
requirements and should be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form,
sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in this title. The period
within which required improvements should be completed should be specified by
the Planning Commission in the resolution approving the final subdivision plat
and should be incorporated in the bond and should not in any event exceed two
(2) years from date of final approval.
         c.   Such bond should be approved by the City Commission as to amount
and surety and conditions satisfactory to the City Commission. The Planning
Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the City Commission
extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a maximum period of
one additional year. The City Commission may at any time during the period of
such bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the bond upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      3.   Temporary Improvements And Maintenance: The applicant/developer
should build and pay for all costs of temporary improvements required by the
Planning Commission and shall maintain same for the period specified by the
Planning Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or
improvement, the developer should file with the city a separate suitable bond
for temporary facilities, which bond should ensure that the temporary
facilities will be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
      4.   Cost Of Improvements: All required improvements should be made by
the applicant, at the applicant's expense, without reimbursement by the local
government or any improvement district therein.
   B.   Governmental Units: Governmental units to which these bonds and
contract provisions apply may file in lieu of said contract or bond to act in
their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Failure To Complete Improvements: For subdivisions for which no
performance bond has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within
the period specified by the planning commission in the resolution approving the
plat, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those cases where a
performance bond has been posted and required improvements have not been
installed within the terms of such performance bond, the city may thereupon
declare the bond to be in default and require that all the improvements be
installed regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the
bond is declared to be in default.
   D.   Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements, and parks shall be by ordinance
of the city commission. The approval by the planning commission of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the city commission of any street, easement, or park shown on said plat. The
planning commission may require said plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes
to this effect. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-4-4: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General Procedure And Fees:
      1.   The planning commission should provide for inspection of required
improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory completion.
(Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
      2.   The applicant shall pay to the city an inspection fee in an amount
set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division IV of this code, and the subdivision plat should not be
signed by the chairperson of the planning commission unless such fee has been
paid at the time of application. These fees should be due and payable upon
demand of the city, and no building permits or certificates of occupancy should
be issued until all fees are paid. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
      3.   If the city engineer finds, upon inspection, that any of the
required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the city
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements according to specifications.
      4.   Should the cost of improvements be covered by a performance bond,
the applicant and the bonding company should be severally and jointly liable
for completing the improvements to specifications.
   B.   Release Or Reduction Of Performance Bond:
      1.   Certificate Of Satisfactory Completion: The city commission will not
accept dedication of required improvements, nor release nor reduce a
performance bond until the city engineer has submitted a certificate stating
that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the
applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the city engineer, through
submission of a detailed as built survey plat of the subdivision, indicating
location, dimensions, materials, and other information required by the planning
commission or city engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all
public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the
subdivision and that a title insurance policy has been furnished to and
approved by the city attorney indicating that the improvements shall have been
completed, are ready for dedication to the city and are free and clear of any
and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the city
commission shall thereafter accept the improvements for dedication in
accordance with the established procedure.
      2.   Reduction Of Performance Bond: Where a performance bond may have
been required, it should be reduced upon actual dedication of public
improvements and then only to the ratio that the public improvement dedicated
bears to the total public improvements for the plat. In no event should a
performance bond be reduced below twenty five percent (25%) of the principal
amount.
   C.   Escrow Deposits For Lot Improvements:
      1.   Acceptance Of Escrow Funds: Whenever, by reason of the season of the
year, any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be
performed, the building and zoning inspector may, nevertheless, issue a
certificate of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety, or
general welfare upon accepting a cash escrow deposit in an amount to be
determined by the city engineer for the cost of said improvements. The
performance bond covering such lot improvements shall remain in full force and
effect.
      2.   Procedures On Escrows Fund: All required improvements for which
escrow monies have been accepted by the building and zoning inspector at the
time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be installed by the
developer within a period of nine (9) months from the date of deposit and
issuance of the certificate of occupancy. In the event that the improvements
have not been properly installed, at the end of the time period the building
and zoning inspector shall give two (2) weeks' written notice to the developer
requiring him to install same, and in the event that same are not installed
properly, in the discretion of the building and zoning inspector, the building
and zoning inspector may request the city commission to authorize the city to
proceed to contract out the work for the installation of the necessary
improvements in a sum not to exceed the amount of the escrow deposit. At the
time of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for which escrow monies
are being deposited with the building and zoning inspector, the applicant shall
obtain and file with the building and zoning inspector, prior to obtaining the
certificate of occupancy, a notarized statement from the purchaser or
purchasers of the premises authorizing the building and zoning inspector to
install the improvements at the end of the nine (9) month period in the event
that the same have not been duly installed by the developer.
   D.   Maintenance Of Improvements:
      1.   The applicant should be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of said improvements by the city
commission. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not
dedicated to the local government, the city may, on twelve (12) hours' notice,
plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to the applicant.
      2.   The applicant should be required to file a maintenance bond with the
city commission, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the
city engineer and in a form satisfactory to the city attorney, in order to
assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including all
lot improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period of two (2)
years after the date of their acceptance by the city commission and dedication
of same to the city.
   E.   Deferral Or Waiver Of Required Improvements:
      1.   The planning commission may defer or waive at the time of final
approval subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such
improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
      2.   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the planning commission to defer
the construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible
grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for
other reasons, the applicant should pay the applicant's share of the costs of
the future improvements to the city prior to signing of the final subdivision
plat, or the applicant may post a bond ensuring completion of said improvements
upon demand of the city.
   F.   Issuance Of Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   Where a performance bond has been required for a subdivision, no
certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision shall be issued
prior to the completion of the improvements and dedication of same to the city
as required in the planning commission's final approval of the subdivision
plat.
      2.   The extent of street improvement should be adequate for vehicular
access by the prospective occupant and by police and fire equipment, prior to
the issuance of an occupancy permit. The developer shall, at the time of the
dedication, submit monies in escrow to the city in a sum determined by the city
engineer for the necessary final improvement of the street.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued for the final ten percent (10%)
of lots in a subdivision, or if ten percent (10%) be less than two (2), for the
final two (2) lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required by
the planning commission for the plat have been fully completed and dedicated to
the city.
   G.   Consumer Protection Legislation And Conflicts Of Interest Statutes:
      1.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy should be granted or
issued if a developer or an authorized agent shall have violated any federal,
state, or local law pertaining to consumer protection of real estate land
sales, promotion, or practices, or any applicable conflicts of interest
legislation with respect to the lot or parcel of land which is the subject of
the permit or certificate, until so ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      2.   With respect to said lot or parcel of land, in the event a building
permit or certificate of occupancy has been granted or issued, it shall be
subject to revocation by the city until so ordered otherwise by a court of
competent jurisdiction; provided, that in no event shall the rights of
intervening innocent third parties in possession of a certificate of occupancy
be prejudiced by any such revocation.
      3.   Any violation of a federal, state, or local consumer protection law
(including, but not limited to, postal reorganization act of 1970; the federal
trade commission act of 1970; interstate land sales full disclosure act; the
truth in lending act; the uniform commercial credit code; state "blue sky"
laws; state subdivision disclosure acts) or conflicts of interest statute, law,
or ordinance shall be deemed a violation of this title and subject to all of
the penalties and proceedings as set forth in section
12-2-3 of this title. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
   H.   Standards For Actual Inspection: Standards for actual inspection shall
be pursuant to the building code(s) adopted by the city in title 10, chapter 1
of this code, and the street construction standards of the city. See the
figures and street construction standards attached to ordinance 938. (Ord. 938,
11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
12-4-5: PERMANENT MARKERS:
Each lot and block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or pins not less than
one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and not less than eighteen inches (18") long
set not less than one inch (1") below the finished grade. (Ord. 938, 11-14-
2011)
12-4-6: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider of any subdivision to be used for residential, commercial,
industrial or other purposes shall lay out, grade and otherwise improve all
streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly serve the
subdivision in accordance with the specifications of the city or the county
except where the governing bodies have policies of additional assistance to the
owners or developers and in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   The new design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street
with an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with the
specifications of the Oklahoma state highway department, but in no case shall
the standard be less than the applicable city specifications.
   B.   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that requires a street
facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay on the portion of the
cost of the major street that would equal the cost of improvement required to
serve on the subdivision, as determined by the planning commission.
   C.   All driveways which connect with a public street shall be constructed
in accordance with "Standard Design Of Driveway Entrances For Oklahoma
Highways", as prepared by the Oklahoma state highway department. (Ord. 938, 11-
14-2011)
12-4-7: SIDEWALKS:
A plan for a system of sidewalks and walkways should be prepared that will
provide adequate pedestrian walkways within a residential or commercial
subdivision or portion thereof with consideration given to sidewalk connections
with all of the community facilities and commercial enterprises located within
or adjacent to the subdivision, and in a manner that will provide convenient
pedestrian circulation throughout the neighborhood or area in which the
subdivision is located. The planning commission may require the construction of
sidewalks to connect with existing or future proposed sidewalks in areas
adjacent to the subdivision where such sidewalks are needed for pedestrian
circulation. Sidewalks and walkways, where constructed in the subdivision,
shall be in accordance with the development plan for sidewalk system to be
approved by the planning commission. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-4-8: WATER LINES:
The subdivider shall install water lines and fire hydrants in accordance with
the city's policies and specifications governing water line construction except
where the governing bodies have policies of additional assistance to owners or
developers. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-4-9: SANITARY SEWERS AND SEPTIC TANKS 1 :
   A.   Installation Of Sanitary Sewers: The subdivider shall install sanitary
sewers whenever a sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible as determined by the
Planning Commission. Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with the
City specifications governing sanitary sewer construction.
   B.   Adequate Sewer System Required: When subdivisions contain five (5)
acres or more, the Planning Commission may require the subdivider to install
sanitary sewers and a disposal system that is adequate to serve all of the lots
within the subdivision.
   C.   Septic Tanks: Whenever the installation of a sanitary sewer is not
required, septic tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used in accordance
with the following provisions:
      1.   A lot for residential use on which a unit disposal system is located
shall be not less than twenty two thousand five hundred feet (22,500') in
square area, or as required by the Oklahoma State Health Department.
      2.   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer than
twenty feet (20') to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located.
      3.   All unit disposal systems shall comply with the requirements of the
State and County Health Departments.
      4.   Septic tanks and laterals must be at least two hundred feet (200')
from any Municipally owned water well. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7, "Storm Drainage And Flood Hazard Areas", of this title.
12-4-10: MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION:
Where a subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply
systems, or other physical facilities that are necessary or desirable for the
welfare of the area, or that area of common use or benefit, and which are not
or cannot be satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency, provision
shall be made which is acceptable to the agency having jurisdiction over the
location and maintenance of such facilities for the proper and continuous
operation, maintenance and supervision of such facilities. (Ord. 938, 11-14-
2011)
12-4-11: EXPANSION AND/OR EXTENSION OF ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   The developer shall connect to the city utility, Kingfisher Electric.
   B.   Kingfisher Electric will design the Underground Residential
Distribution (URD) system for the subdivision's internal electric needs.
   C.   For installation of the URD system:
      1.   The developer will be responsible for providing and installing all
primary, secondary and streetlighting conduit and required subsurface equipment
for the URD system per Kingfisher Electric specifications. All roadway rights-
of-way must provide for the drainage requirements of the ordinances and
regulations relating thereto.
       2.   Kingfisher Electric will be responsible for the installation of all
primary and secondary conductors, transformers, pedestals and other surface
mounted equipment.
   D.   Subdivision design changes after installation of electric facilities,
or changes made by individual builders on subdivision lots causing the need to
raise or lower electric facilities due to additional grading, will require the
respective developer or builder to correct these issues at their expense or
reimburse Kingfisher Electric for one hundred percent (100%) the cost of labor
and materials for these modifications.
   E.   The electrical service drops or service laterals will be installed by
Kingfisher Electric.
   F.   In order to expedite the installation, developers shall make contact
with the Kingfisher Electric Superintendent and Community Development Director
to discuss the URD system plans during the plat review process. Additionally, a
minimum four (4) weeks advance notice to Kingfisher Electric is required prior
to developer's desired installation of primary and secondary conductors,
transformers, pedestals and other surface mounted equipment.
   G.   In the event that a new addition to or extension of the electric
distribution system would, in the sole discretion of the City and the
Kingfisher Public Works Authority, provide a significant economic benefit to
the City and/or Kingfisher Public Works Authority, which would substantially
offset the costs of installation, the charge described in subsection A of this
section can be waived, or partially waived, by the City and/or the Kingfisher
Public Works Authority. (Ord. 2018-016, 11-13-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-003, 2-11-
2020)
CHAPTER 5
PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-5-1: Preliminary Plat
12-5-2: Final Plat
12-5-3: Fees For Filing And Review Of Plats
12-5-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   General: The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for submission
to the Planning and Zoning Commission ("P&Z"). Four (4) copies of the
preliminary plat shall be submitted for review by P&Z not less than seven (7)
days prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered.
   B.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   The name and address of the owner of record of the subdivider and of
the registered engineer preparing the preliminary plat.
      3.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines and including the boundaries and number of acres of drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part.
      4.   The scale, north point and date.
      5.   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivision, and the location of City limits, if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract.
      6.   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
(2') referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey bench mark or monument.
      7.   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where adjoined and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision; provided, however, that actual
measured distances shall not be required.
      8.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements and setback
lines and the approximate lot dimensions.
      9.   The location, approximate size and type of sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface
and subsurface structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent
to the proposed subdivision; and the location, layout, type and proposed size
of the following structures and utilities:
         a.   Water mains.
         b.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals.
         c.   Storm sewers, culverts and drainage structures.
         d.   Street improvements.
      10.   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, the proposed methods of disposing of all runoff from the proposed
subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements relating
thereto whether they are located within or outside of the preliminary plat.
      11.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term as
previously set out in subsection
12-3-3H of this title.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission: P&Z shall approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within sixty (60) days of the date
of its submission by the subdivider. If no action be taken by P&Z at the end of
sixty (60) days after submission, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to have
been approved, unless stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the
subdivider. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or conditionally approved,
the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall
be signed by the P&Z Chairperson and shall be attached to one copy of the
preliminary plat and transmitted to the subdivider. The reasons for disapproval
or conditional approval shall refer specifically to those parts of the general
plan or specific regulations with which the preliminary plat does not conform.
On conditionally approving the preliminary plat, P&Z may require submission of
a revised preliminary plat. Once approved, a copy of the preliminary plat or
the revised preliminary plat shall be filed with P&Z. Also upon approval, the
subdivider may proceed with the laying out of streets and roads, the
preparation of utility plans, and with the preparation of the final plat. (Ord.
2018-017, 11-13-2018)
12-5-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Plat Preparation: A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth or
permanent plastic film and three (3) dark line prints thereof shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission ("P&Z") not less than five (5)
days before the meeting at which it is to be considered for final approval. At
the same time, there shall be submitted two (2) sets of the proposed plans and
specifications for all improvements and the proposed restrictions in final
form; provided, however, the final plat may be approved subject to later
submission of final improvement plans and specifications.
   B.   Time Of Submission: The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be
submitted to P&Z and Board of Commissioners for final approval within one year
of the date in which the preliminary plat was approved. If not submitted for
final approval within such time, the preliminary plat shall be considered as
having been disapproved unless P&Z agrees to an extension of time. The final
plat shall be filed of record in the Kingfisher County Clerk's Office within
two (2) years after approval by P&Z and the Board of Commissioners, or if not
filed within such time, said approval shall be considered as having been
voided.
   C.   Drafting: The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of at least one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets whose
dimensions are twenty one inches by thirty three inches (21" x 33") between
borderlines. On the first sheet of every final plat, there shall be a key map
showing the location of the subdivision referenced to government survey section
lines and major streets. If more than two (2) sheets are required for the final
plat, the key map shall show the number of the sheet for each area. A border of
one-half inch (1/2") surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at the top,
bottom, and right side. There shall be a margin of two inches (2") at the left
side for binding purposes.
   D.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall show:
      1.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced.
      2.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees, minutes, and seconds as hereafter specified.
      3.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands and
adjacent subdivisions identified by official names. Material which is not a
part of the subdivision shall be shown in dashed or dotted lines.
      4.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
      5.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the direction of an alley is
not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines, the length
and/or bearing shall be given.
      6.   The widths and names, where appropriate, of all proposed streets and
alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys and easements which shall be
properly located.
      7.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles; except where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted.
      8.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area marked
"public".
      9.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision,
the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block and with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part".
      10.   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements
for public services or utilities with dimensions showing their location.
      11.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns.
      12.   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent of the
mortgagees to final plat restrictions.
      13.   The following, which shall be made and shown on the permanent
plastic film drawing:
         a.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed.
         b.   Engineer's certificate of survey, signed and his seal.
         c.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public.
         d.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed of record in the Kingfisher County Clerk's Office, which
directly affect the land being subdivided.
         e.   Certificate of Planning and Zoning Commission approval.
         f.   Certificate of Board of Commissioners' acceptance of ways,
easements and public land dedications.
         g.   Treasurer's certificate.
      14.   A title which shall include:
         a.   Name of the subdivision.
         b.   Name of City, County and State.
         c.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, Township and range.
   E.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action:
      1.   P&Z shall act upon the final plat within forty five (45) days after
it has been submitted for final approval. This approval and the day thereof
shall be shown on the final plat over the signature of the P&Z Chairperson or
Secretary member. Unless stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the
subdivider, and if no action is taken by P&Z at the end of forty five (45) days
after submission, the final plat shall be deemed to have been approved.
      2.   If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the tracing and
prints to the subdivider. The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically
to those parts of the general or land use plan or ordinance or regulation with
which the final plat does not comply.
   F.   Board Of Commissioners' Action: Before recording the final plat, it
shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for approval and for
acceptance of public streets, alleys, utility easements, and other lands
dedicated to public use. This approval of the final plat shall be shown over
the signature of the Mayor and properly attested by the City Clerk. The
disapproval of any final plat by the Board of Commissioners shall be deemed a
refusal of the proposed dedications shown thereon.
   G.   Recording Of Plat: After approval of the final plat and the affixing of
all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide
P&Z with two (2) dark line prints thereof and one contact reproducible tracing
on cloth or film mylar with the Kingfisher County Clerk's Office.
   H.   Abandonment Of Approved Plat: All approved plats may be considered as
void if development is not begun within two (2) years from the official
recording date of the said plat with the Kingfisher County Clerk's Office. Any
subdivider thereafter shall be required to resubmit a new plat for preliminary
approval subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 2018-017, 11-13-2018)
12-5-3: FEES FOR FILING AND REVIEW OF PLATS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: At the time of filing of a preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall submit all required documents and materials together with a
fee in the amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines
and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code.
      1.   For the purposes of computing preliminary plat fees, each phase of a
multi-phase subdivision submitted for preliminary plat approval shall be
considered a separate subdivision unless multiple phases are included in the
same preliminary plat.
   B.   Final Plat: At the time of filing of a final plat, the subdivider shall
submit all required documents and materials together with a base final plat
filing fee in the amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the
fines and fees schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code.
      1.   For the purposes of computing final plat fees, each phase of a
multi-phase subdivision submitted for final plat approval shall be considered a
separate subdivision unless multiple phases are included in the same final plat
submission.
   C.   Subdivider Responsibility For Costs: The subdivider shall be
responsible for the actual cost of engineering review, attorney review,
construction inspection (contracted or performed by City personnel), materials
testing, and other direct costs the Municipality may incur related to the
review, inspection, and acceptance plats, covenants, and infrastructure. (Ord.
2018-017, 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 6
SOIL EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
12-6-1: Owner's And Developer's Obligation
12-6-2: Washing And Sifting Of Soil Onto Streets And Alleys
12-6-3: Inspection
12-6-4: Proof Of Compliance
12-6-5: Violations; Penalties
12-6-1: OWNER'S AND DEVELOPER'S OBLIGATION:
It shall be the duty and obligation of all owners or developers of additions or
tracts of land within the city limits to take reasonable and necessary action
to prevent the unreasonable erosion within said additions or tracts. (Ord. 938,
11-14-2011)
12-6-2: WASHING AND SIFTING OF SOIL ONTO STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Extraordinary washing and sifting of soil onto the streets or alleys, or
adjacent properties, shall be deemed to be unreasonable erosion as defined
herein. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-6-3: INSPECTION:
The building official of the city shall be empowered to make inspections of
such situations and conditions, and such order of the building official shall
be subject to review by the board of commissioners of the city upon five (5)
days' notice and demand by such owner or developer. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-6-4: PROOF OF COMPLIANCE:
Before such tract or additions shall be accepted by the city as a dedicated
plat, and before a building permit is issued for any part thereof, the owner or
developer shall furnish to the building official proof of compliance with this
chapter or proof of adequate planning for such compliance. (Ord. 938, 11-14-
2011)
12-6-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an amount
set by the board of commissioners as provided in the fines and fees schedule in
appendix A, division III of this code for each offense, plus reimbursement for
damages and removal. Each day that violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
CHAPTER 7
STORM DRAINAGE AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
12-7-1: Findings Of Fact
12-7-2: Purpose And Scope
12-7-3: Application Of Provisions
12-7-4: Classification Of Drainage Channels And Designation Of Responsibility
12-7-5: Methods For Determining Flood Hazard Areas And Flow And Runoff
12-7-6: Flood Hazard Areas On Major Tributaries And Rivers
12-7-7: Minor Tributaries And Surface Drainage Improvements
12-7-8: Drainage Channels And Storm Sewers Outside Addition Boundaries
12-7-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The periodic flooding of areas within the city results in hazards to life and
property, in the disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of
the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare. Flood and associated losses are caused by the location in
flood hazard areas of buildings, structures and uses of land which are
inadequately protected from flooding and erosion, and which contribute to
flooding by impeding the flow of drainage and by increasing flood heights
through displacement of stormwater in floodway and flood fringe areas. (Ord.
938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The regulations and standards of this chapter are to protect the various
portions of the urban area from flooding; to provide clean and sanitary
channels for runoff; to prevent pollution of watersheds, streams and natural
drainage channels; to prevent the encroachment of buildings and improvements on
natural drainage channels; to equitably apportion the cost of improvements; to
protect natural scenic areas; and to provide for the conservation of the
natural resource of the area. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
All subdivisions of land shall comply with the design and improvement
requirements herein established for the protection of flood hazard areas and
the prevention of erosion. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-4: CLASSIFICATION OF DRAINAGE CHANNELS AND DESIGNATION OF RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Classification: For the purpose of this chapter, drainage shall be
classified as follows:
      1.   Surface drainage is runoff of such a limited quantity and/or slow
rate that it does not cause erosion of defined channel.
      2.   A minor tributary is any drainage channel having a drainage basin of
six hundred forty (640) acres (1 square mile) or less in area.
      3.   A major tributary is any channel having a drainage basin of not less
than one square mile or greater than twenty five (25) square miles.
   B.   Responsibility: It is intended that responsibility for drainage be
allocated as follows, unless otherwise specifically designated:
      1.   The developer of a subdivision is responsible for the following:
         a.   All surface drainage on the subdivision.
         b.   All increases in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision.
         c.   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision.
         d.   Any significant increase in rate or quantity of runoff in any
minor or major tributary or river which results from the development of the
subdivision.
         e.   Provision for the maintenance of all floodway and flood fringe
areas of major tributaries and rivers, which have not been dedicated to the
public.
      2.   The city and other levels of government will be responsible for the
following:
         a.   The improvement of floodways of major tributaries.
         b.   The improvement of river floodways.
         c.   The maintenance of floodway and flood fringe areas dedicated to
the public. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-5: METHODS FOR DETERMINING FLOOD HAZARD AREAS AND FLOW AND RUNOFF:
   A.   Flood Hazard Areas: The designation of flood hazard areas is set forth
on the flood hazard map. The boundaries of all floodway and flood fringe areas
shall be designated on the preliminary and the final plat and shall be clearly
marked.
   B.   Alternative Methods For Determining Stream Flow And Runoff
Characteristics: For all areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or a
flood fringe area, the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer
registered in the state of Oklahoma prepare a drainage assessment of all of the
area of the proposed subdivision, and all area affected by runoff resulting
from development of a proposed subdivision in accordance with the following
provisions:
      1.   The 100-year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for the sizing
of all drainage channels, bridges and other structures, unless otherwise
specified herein.
      2.   The calculation of all runoff shall be based on saturated
urbanization of the drainage basin for minor tributaries and surface drainage,
as reflected in the comprehensive plan for the city and shall be based on the
maximum degree of urbanization, as reflected in the comprehensive plan, for the
drainage basin of the major tributary or river.
      3.   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the city engineer, and
methodology used shall result in quantities which would be not less than those
derived from the application of the following values:
         a.   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by rational formula:
Q = AIR
Q - Cubic feet per second
A - Area to be drained in acres, determined by field surveys for areas not less
than 640 acres, and by latest government quadrangle maps for large areas
I - Percent of imperviousness of the area; this may vary between 40 percent and
95 percent but no value of less than 50 percent may be used for saturated urban
development
R - Rate of rainfall over entire drainage area in inches per hour, based on
time of concentration and latest government records for area
         b.   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts, and
bridges shall be not less than that determined by using the Manning formula:
  2/3      1/2
Q = [1,486(r ) (s )A]/n
Q - Discharge in cubic feet per second
A - Cross sectional area of water in conduit in square feet
r - Hydraulic radius of water in conduit
s - Mean slope of hydraulic gradient, in feet of vertical rise per foot of
horizontal distance
n - Roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of material of conduit
lining, but not less than 0.013
   (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-6: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ON MAJOR TRIBUTARIES AND RIVERS:
   A.   Flood Easements: All floodways shall be designated as "flood easements"
and shall be maintained as permanent open space for use of private recreation
or agriculture for which no buildings or structures are required, or dedicated
to the public for drainage, recreation and utility use.
   B.   Uses: All flood fringe areas shall be planned for uses which are
permitted in the flood fringe area of the zoning ordinance, and in no case
shall the proposed use or construction cause a displacement of floodwater in
the flood fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the floodway or
flood fringe.
   C.   Requirements To Reduce Adverse Effects: When it is determined by the
city engineer that the development of the subdivision will significantly
increase runoff in the flood hazard area or will otherwise adversely affect
stormwater runoff, the planning commission may require any or all of the
following to the extent needed to reduce the adverse effects of the
development:
      1.   The design and installation of stormwater detention basins and flow
retardation structures to control the rate of runoff may be required within or
outside the subdivision.
      2.   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened, and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway.
      3.   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building sites
and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas, and streets will
not be subject to overflow, and in a manner that will provide for the rapid
runoff of all rainfall; however, such improvements shall be carried out in a
manner that will preserve and protect large trees and attractive physical
features of the area.
      4.   Whenever channel improvement is carried out, sodding, backsloping,
cribbing, and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to
control erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment of
channel involved.
      5.   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless
it is placed in an enclosed storm sewer, or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties.
      6.   Culverts, bridges, and other drainage structures shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the city at all locations
where drainage channels intersect with continuous streets or alleys. (Ord. 938,
11-14-2011)
12-7-7: MINOR TRIBUTARIES AND SURFACE DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS:
All minor tributaries and surface drainage located within or immediately
adjacent to and serving the subdivision shall be improved by the developer, as
follows: (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
   A.   Improvement:
      1.   All minor tributary channels shall be improved in accordance with
the standards set forth in figures B, C, D, or E, which figures are attached to
ordinance 938, or other equivalent standards, as determined by the city
engineer.
      2.   Sections of figure E, attached to ordinance 938, shall be used only
for channels of minor tributaries which drain less than eighty (80) acres, and
which are designed as an integral part of the landscape of the area so that
maintenance of sodded slopes will be the responsibility of the property owners
abutting the channel. All channels shall be designed to carry a 100-year
maximum flood, shall be designed for self- cleaning and easement maintenance,
shall have sufficient hard surface along the flow line to prevent ponding of
water, and shall have design characteristics of alignment, materials of
construction and cross sectioned elements that will be hydraulically efficient
and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011;
amd. 2013 Code)
   B.   Stormwater Detention Basins: The design and installation of stormwater
detention basins and flow retardation structures to control the rate of runoff
may be required within or outside the subdivision.
   C.   Enclosed Storm Sewers: Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the
city engineer where special or unusual conditions make open channels hazardous
or otherwise unfeasible.
   D.   Drainage Channel Location: A drainage channel shall not be located in a
street easement unless it is placed on a closed storm sewer, or unless a paved
street surface is located on both sides of a paved drainage channel to give
access to abutting properties.
   E.   Site Grading: Site grading shall be carried out in such a manner that
surface water from each lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved
channel or paved street without crossing more than two (2) adjacent lots.
   F.   Surface Water Collection: Surface water collected on streets shall be
diverted to storm drains at satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six
inch (6") high curves during the 50-year frequency rain for the area and grades
involved; provided, however, that in no case shall the drainage area served by
one street exceed twenty (20) acres, regardless of the amount of flow.
   G.   Drainage Easements: Drainage easements of satisfactory width to provide
working room for construction and maintenance shall be provided for all storm
sewers. In no case shall the total easement be less than twenty feet (20').
   H.   Bridges And Culverts:
      1.   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where watercourses cross
continuous streets or alleys.
      2.   Bridges and culverts shall be sized to accommodate a 100-year
frequency rain, based on the drainage area involved.
      3.   Design of bridges and culverts shall conform to city construction
specifications.
   I.   Closed Storm Sewers: Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of
precast or prefabricated pipe or built in place of closed box design to conform
with city construction specifications to serve a 100-year frequency rain for
the drainage area involved.
   J.   Open Paved Storm Drainage:
      1.   Open paved storm drainage channels shall be constructed in
accordance with city specifications.
      2.   Side slopes above the paved section shall be shaped and sodded on a
slope of four horizontal to one vertical (4:1) or flatter. (Ord. 938, 11-14-
2011)
      3.   Fences shall be outside of the 100-year frequency flooding line,
shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section, and in no case
shall fences be closer than six feet (6'), measured horizontally, to the edge
of the paved section, except on figure C sections, which figure is attached to
ordinance 938. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; amd. 2013 Code)
      4.   Hand laid riprap may be substituted for sodded shoulders where
desired for landscaped purposes. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
12-7-8: DRAINAGE CHANNELS AND STORM SEWERS OUTSIDE ADDITION BOUNDARIES:
The city reserves the right to require improvements, provisions for drainage
easements, and for provision of agreements beyond the boundaries of the
subdivision to facilitate flow of water through the addition, to avoid
probability of lawsuits based on damage from changed runoff in the subdivision,
and to provide continuous improvement of the overall storm drainage system.
Requirements outside the addition may include the following:
   A.   Required Improvements: Improvements may be required in channels or
storm sewers flowing to or from the addition, or in channels or storm sewers
located in adjacent areas that are affected by flow of water from the addition.
   B.   Kinds Of Improvements: The following kinds of improvements may be
required:
      1.   Enlargement or replacement of undersized drainage structures to
provide free flow.
      2.   Removal of obstructions.
      3.   Straightening of channel.
      4.   Widening or deepening of channel.
      5.   Construction of erosion control structures.
      6.   Backsloping, sodding, and/or riprapping of bank.
      7.   Construction of closed or open paved storm sewers for the purpose of
closing gap or continuation of overall storm sewer system.
   C.   Property Owner Agreements: Property owner agreements, where required,
shall be designed to protect the city from probable lawsuits for damage caused
by changed runoff conditions.
   D.   Retention Reservoirs: When subdivision development will result in
increased runoff beyond the boundaries of the subdivision which cannot be
accommodated through channel improvements without causing downstream flooding,
the city planning commission may require the construction of one or more
retention reservoirs on the subdivision which will temporarily impound and
discharge water from the subdivision site at the rate and volume equivalent to
the discharge from the undeveloped subdivision site. The design shall be for a
100-year frequency flood. Plans shall be approved by the city engineer. The
construction and maintenance of retention reservoirs shall be the
responsibility of the developer. (Ord. 938, 11-14-2011)
TITLE 13
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authorization
13-1-2: Findings Of Fact
13-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
13-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act, 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1601, et seq., as amended,
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of
City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, does hereby ordain that this title as set forth
herein, and any lawfully enacted amendments thereto, be hereby enacted and
effective on June 7th, 2019. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma are subject
to periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   A.   In order to accomplish its purposes, this title uses the following
methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Structures which are on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure, but not limited to garages and storage sheds.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial
fan or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by
high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: Means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: Means the land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent-annual chance (100-year) flood based on future
conditions hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO Zone
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: Is the land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR,
AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: Means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-30 and AR that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from
the flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding in any
given year - also called the base flood.
BASEMENT: Means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: Means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
CRITICAL FEATURE: Means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Means any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: Means, for insurance purposes, a non-basement building,
which has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation
walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: Means for the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: Means an examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Means an official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): See definition of Flood Elevation Study.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: Means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Means those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: Means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Means Zoning Ordinances, subdivision
regulations, Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a Floodplain Ordinance, Grading Ordinance and Erosion Control
Ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Means any combination of structural and non- structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: See definition of regulatory floodway.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: Means a use, which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: Means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1. By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: Means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: Means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: Means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, to which base flood elevations shown on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Means a vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis;
b) four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections; c) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable
by a light duty truck; and d) designed primarily not for use as a permanent
dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or
seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: Means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
RIVERINE: Means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See definition of area of special flood hazard.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: Means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or
Safety Code specifications which have been identified by the local Code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions or b) any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
VARIANCE: Means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
VIOLATION: Means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10)
or (d)(3) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: Means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in floodplains. (Ord.
2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
13-3-2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
13-3-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
13-3-4: Compliance
13-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-3-6: Interpretation
13-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City of Kingfisher. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-
2019)
13-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kingfisher County, Oklahoma", dated June
7, 2019, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Boundary-
Floodway Maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated June 7, 2019 are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019,
eff. 6-7-2019)
13-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2019-
009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
a) considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
Governing Body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under State Statutes. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff.
6-7-2019)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
13-4-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
13-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
13-4-3: Permit Procedures
13-4-4: Variance Procedures
13-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Municipal building official is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this title and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance -
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this title.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site projects, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this title.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
Oklahoma Water Resources Board prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
13-3-2 of this title, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
      10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by section
65.12.
      11.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with title 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 - 1620, as amended.
      12.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the City of Kingfisher, determine if the residential and non-residential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement.
      13.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the Board of Commissioners for the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-4-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures:
      1.   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented
to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection
13-5-2A2 of this title;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
13-4-2A1 of this chapter;
      2.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this title
and the following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019,
eff. 6-7-2019)
13-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures:
      1.   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this title.
      2.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this title.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
      5.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this title.
      6.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
13-4-3A2 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      7.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
title, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this title
(section
13-1-3 of this title).
      8.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      9.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      10.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon: 1) showing a good and
sufficient cause; 2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
         d.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that: 1) the criteria outlined in
subsections A1 through A9 of this section are met, and 2) the structure or
other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during
the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 2019-
009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
13-5-1: General Standards
13-5-2: Specific Standards
13-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
13-5-4: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
13-5-5: Floodways
13-5-6: Severability
13-5-7: Floodplain Management Fee Schedule
13-5-8: Penalties For Noncompliance
13-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are
required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019,
eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data
has been provided as set forth in: 1) section
13-3-2 of this title, 2) subsection
13-4-2A8 of this title, or 3) subsection
13-5-3C of this chapter, the following provisions are required: (Ord. 2019-009,
6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection as proposed in subsection
13-4-3A1a of this title is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-8-2019)
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings on separate walls having a total
net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on
a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: 1)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
of the manufactured home is elevated at least two feet (2') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement is
in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to
Oklahoma State law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
         c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of this subsection A4 be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated at least two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-8-2019)
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the community FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days, or
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of section
13-4-3 of this title, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection A4 of this section. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions.
      6.   Accessory Structure: Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within Zones A and AE on the Kingfisher County FIRM shall comply with the
following:
         a.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
         b.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
         c.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         d.   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed six hundred (600)
square feet in size;
         e.   Structures exceeding six hundred (600) square feet in size will
be required to meet all applicable standards of sections
13-3-3 and
13-4-4 of this title, and sections
13-5-1, and
13-5-2 of this chapter, including relevant subsections;
         f.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE plus one foot (1') freeboard;
         g.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
         h.   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have
low flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
         i.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         j.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         k.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents);
         l.   The openings (flood vents) shall be located no higher than one
foot (1') above grade;
         m.   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
13-1-2,
13-1-3, and
13-1-4 of this title.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of sections
13-3-3 and
13-4-3 of this title and this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
13-3-2 or subsection
13-4-2A8 of this title.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-4: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
   A.   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in section
13-3-2 of this title are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with flood depths of one foot (1') to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply: (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least
2 feet if no depth number is specified). (Ord. 2019-010, 7-8-2019)
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures; (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
         a.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least
2 feet if no depth number is specified), or (Ord. 2019-010, 7-8-2019)
         b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth level in an AO Zone, or
below the base flood elevation in an AH Zone, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in section
13-4-3 of this title are satisfied.
      4.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-5: FLOODWAYS:
   A.   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in
section
13-3-2 of this title, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection A1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulation, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by section 65.12. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff.
6-7-2019)
13-5-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this title are held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
title. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-7: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
As further shown on the fines and fees schedule shown on appendix A, division
IV of this Code, the Board of Commissioners of the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma
establishes fees for the following:
   A.   Notice of intent fee;
   B.   Floodplain development permit application review;
   C.   Floodplain development permit fee;
   D.   Inspection fee - per inspection;
   E.   Variance request filing fee. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
13-5-8: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this title by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this title or fails to comply
with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as shown in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division III of this Code. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Board of Commissioners of the City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019)
TITLE 14
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Definitions
14-1-2: Public Health And Safety
14-1-3: Application For Permit
14-1-4: Permittee's Insurance And Bond
14-1-5: Enhanced Recovery, And Saltwater Or Deleterious Substance Disposal
Wells
14-1-6: Right To Suspend
14-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases shall have the following meanings.
ABANDONED WELL: A. Each well in which no production casing has been run, and
for which drilling or testing operations have ceased for thirty (30)
consecutive days, or;
   B.   Any other well which there is no current City permit, or;
   C.   Any capped oil or gas well that has not been in production for a period
of three (3) years.
ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION: The raising to the surface of the earth, by means other
than natural flow, petroleum or natural gas.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The Governing Body of the City.
CITY: The City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma.
CITY MANAGER: The Chief Administrative Officer of the City.
CORPORATION COMMISSION: The Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE: Any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud or injurious substances produced or
used in the drilling, development, producing, transportation, refining and
processing of oil, gas or condensate.
ENHANCED RECOVERY: An operation by which fluid or energy is introduced into a
source of supply for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom.
MAYOR: The chief elected official of the City.
NATURAL PRODUCTION: The raising to the surface of the earth, by natural flow,
petroleum or natural gas.
OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR: That person, firm or corporation employed by the City to
enforce the provisions of this title, or his/her authorized representatives.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms of
this title.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, trust,
cooperative, or other type of organization.
POLLUTION: The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical, or
biological properties of any land or natural waters of the City, or such
discharge of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the City
as will or is likely to create a nuisance or threat to public health, safety,
or welfare to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or
other beneficial uses; or to livestock, animals or aquatic life.
PRESSURE MAINTENANCE: An operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into a supply of oil to maintain pressure or retard pressure decline
therein for the purpose of facilitating recovery therefrom, and which has been
approved by the Corporation Commission after notice and hearing.
SALT WATER: As used in this title shall mean any water containing more than
five hundred milligrams per liter (500 mg/L) chlorides.
STATE: The State of Oklahoma, its branches, departments, agencies, boards or
the officers thereof.
TREATABLE WATER: Surface and subsurface water in its natural state which may or
may not require treatment to be useful for human consumption and contains less
than ten thousand (10,000) ppm total dissolved solids and/or five thousand
(5,000) ppm chlorides.
WATER, WATERS OF THE CITY OR CITY WATER: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, walls, springs, irrigation system drainage systems,
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the City or any portion thereof.
WELL: Unless specifically qualified, any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any
depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil, gas or liquefied
petroleum matter.
All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have the meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017)
14-1-2: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:
Whereas the imprudent operation of an oil and gas facility can constitute a
menace to the public health, safety and welfare of the City of Kingfisher, it
is the intent and purpose of this title, that oil and gas operations be
reasonably regulated for the public good. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975,
10-10-2017)
14-1-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application: Prior to the submittal of any permit application for
drilling a new well or re-entry to an existing well, the applicant shall pay a
new well drilling fee or well re-entry fee to cover the administrative overhead
and inspection enforcement during the first year's operation. The application
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by some duly authorized
representative and contain the information required in this title and
accompanied with the applicable bond and insurance documents outlined in
section
14-1-4 of this chapter. Each permit shall cover only a single well bore or re-
entry of an existing bore regardless of how many well bores are located at any
given site.
   B.   Fees: In accordance with subsection A of this section, a fee in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code shall be paid at the time of
submission of the application. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-1-4: PERMITTEE'S INSURANCE AND BOND:
   A.   No actual operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file
with the City, bonds and a certificate of insurance as follows:
      1.   A bond executed by a reliable insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Oklahoma, as surety and with the applicant as
principal, running to the City of Kingfisher for the benefit of the City of
Kingfisher and all persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will
comply with the terms and conditions of this title and the terms, conditions
and regulations of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Oklahoma
Department of Environmental Quality in the operation of the oil or gas well for
either natural or artificial production. Said bond shall become effective on or
before the date the same is filed with the City and remain in force and effect
for at least twelve (12) months subsequent to the operation of the permitted
well as a producing well, and in addition the bond will be conditioned that the
permittee will promptly pay fines, penalties and other assessments imposed upon
the permittee by reason of his breach of any of the terms, provisions and
conditions of this title, and that the permittee will promptly restore the
streets, sidewalks and other public property of the City which may be disturbed
or damaged in permittee's operations, to their former condition; and that the
permittee will promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash, waste and
other substances, and will after abandonment, grade, level and restore said
property to the same surface condition, as practicable as is possible, as
existed prior to commencing operation; and further that the permittee shall
indemnify and hold harmless the City for any and all liability attributable to
granting the permit.
The amount of the bond shall be twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per
well. If the permittee operates multiple wells within the City of Kingfisher,
the permittee shall post a single bond that will cover all operations of the
permittee at all wells located in the City of Kingfisher. The amount of the
bond posted to cover all operations of the permittee at all wells within the
City of Kingfisher, Oklahoma, shall be twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) per well, regardless of the number of wells within the City of
Kingfisher.
      2.   In addition to the bond required in subsection A1 of this section,
the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public
liability insurance written by a reliable insurance company authorized to do
business within the State of Oklahoma. Said policy or policies shall provide
for the following minimum coverages:
         a.   Bodily injury, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per
person; five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence.
         b.   Property damage and pollution damage, one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
Said policy or policies shall provide full coverage in the event of pollution
and shall not include any pollution exclusion whatsoever. The permittee shall
file with the City Manager certificates of insurance as above stated, and shall
obtain the written approval thereof of the oil and gas inspector who shall act
thereon promptly after the date of such filing. Said insurance policy or
policies shall not be canceled without written notice to the City Manager at
least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such cancellation. In the
event said policy or policies are canceled, the permit granted shall
immediately thereupon terminate without any action on the part of the City, and
the permittee's rights to operate under said permit shall immediately cease
until permittee files with the City Manager an additional certificate of
insurance as required above.
If, after completion of a producing well, the permittee has complied with all
the provisions of this title such as removing derricks, clearing premises,
etc., the permittee shall apply to the oil and gas inspector to have the
insurance policy or policies reduced as follows:
         a.   Bodily injury, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
person; two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per occurrence.
         b.   Property damage, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
         c.   Pollution damage, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) (full
coverage with no exclusion whatsoever).
      3.   The bond required in subsection A1 of this section and the insurance
policy or policies required in subsection A2 of this section, shall assure that
the permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal and State laws, rules,
regulations, standards and directives relating to the maintenance of the safe
and beneficial physical, chemical and biological properties of any natural
waters located within or under the City; that permittee shall obtain the
necessary permits from the City and State with regard to any operations which
have the potential of rendering such waters harmful or detrimental or injurious
to the public health, safety and welfare; that permittee shall bear all the
cost necessary and incidental to the correction of any pollution to said waters
caused by the permittee or permittee's agents, servants, employees,
subcontractors or independent contractors; that permittee shall pay all fines,
penalties, assessments or judgments resulting directly or incidentally from the
permittee's activities and which result in pollution of any waters located
within or under the City; that permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
City from any and all liability resulting from the pollution of any waters
located within or under the City. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-
2017)
14-1-5: ENHANCED RECOVERY, AND SALTWATER OR DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE DISPOSAL
WELLS:
No person shall re-enter any well or drill an original well to be used for
disposal of saltwater or other deleterious substance. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017;
amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-1-6: RIGHT TO SUSPEND:
The City Manager is hereby granted authority to suspend the oil well permit
issued under this title where any of the provisions of this title or any
amendment thereto, are violated, which suspension shall be effective until such
time as such person shall comply with the provisions of this title. Before
suspending any such permit the City Manager shall cause written notice to be
served upon the permittee advising such permittee that a hearing will be had at
a time and place fixed in such notice to determine whether the permit held by
such permittee shall be suspended. Five (5) days' notice of the time of the
hearing shall be given. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to
operate any well during any period in which the permit covering the operation
of such well is so suspended. The provisions of this section shall in no way
limit or interfere with the enforcement of the penalties for the violation of
ordinances generally, but shall be cumulative and in addition to such
penalties. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 2
REGULATORY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Drilling And Operation Regulations
14-2-2: Applicability
14-2-3: Fencing
14-2-4: Slush Pits Prohibited
14-2-5: Impact On Streets
14-2-1: DRILLING AND OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   In the drilling, operation or maintenance of any oil or gas well in the
City, all of such operations shall be subject to the following regulations, and
violations thereof are hereby declared unlawful and offenses.
      1.   No oil or liquid with oil content, gasoline or other oil product,
surface mud or rotary mud, sand or salt water shall be disposed of by draining
or diverting the same into or upon any public highway, street, or alley,
drainage ditch, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, gutter or paving; nor shall any of
such substances be permitted to escape from the property owned, leased or
controlled by the person carrying on such operations by seepage or overflow.
      2.   No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel or other internal combustion
engine, shall be operated within the corporate limits of the City without being
muffled to one hundred ten (110) dBA or less.
      3.   No earthen pits or other excavations shall be constructed for the
handling of drilling fluids. All working pits are restricted to steel vessels
or twenty (20) mil lining for circulation of drilling fluids.
      4.   All storage tanks or other tanks intended to contain inflammable
substances shall be protected by earthen embankments in such manner as to
adequately contain one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the maximum contents of
such tanks; and no such tanks shall be erected or installed closer than five
hundred feet (500') to any dwelling house, established business structure,
street, highway, industry, place of worship or school; provided however, oil or
gas wells or appurtenances to tanks which were permitted prior to the adoption
of this title or any amendment hereto shall comply with the setback and
distance requirements in force and effect at the time of the issuance of the
initial permit.
      5.   No oil or gas well shall be drilled, operated or maintained, nor
shall any of the operations in connection therewith be carried on, closer than
five hundred feet (500'), by the shortest distance, to any place of worship,
school building, residence, industry, commercial building, public or private
water well, or any other structure where people congregate and no place of
worship, school building, residence, industry, commercial building, public or
private water well, or any other structure where people congregate shall be
placed closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') to any existing, non-plugged
well bore, provided however, the location of oil or gas wells or appurtenances
thereto and the proximity to structures and the location of structures and the
proximity to oil or gas wells and appurtenances, prior to the adoption of this
title or any amendment hereto shall be in compliance with the setback and
distance requirements in force and effect at the time of the issuance of the
initial permit.
      6.   Approved equipment, devices and methods for the safety of life and
property, such as are commonly known in the oil drilling and producing business
must be used in the City in the carrying on of all the operations covered by
this title, and failure to use any of such equipment, devices or methods in any
substantially important operation shall be a ground for immediately stopping
further work until sure failure has been corrected.
      7.   Surface pipe shall be set according to State requirements.
      8.   The premises upon which any oil well is drilled, operated or
maintained shall be kept free from accumulations of rubbish, litter, unused
materials or equipment, excessive rotary mud and waste oil or oily substances
or other waste oil products, so far as such premises may be reasonably kept
free of the same in the carrying on the operations covered by this title.
      9.   All piping, pipeline, connection and fixtures shall be equivalent,
both as to installation as well as material used, to the specifications of the
National Gas Safety Code as adopted and approved by the United States
Department of Commerce as the same is now in force and effect.
      10.   All derricks erected must be carried on in compliance with the
rules, regulations and specifications promulgated by the Corporation Commission
of the State, and the various departments of such commission. Failure to abide
by such rules, regulations and specifications in case of any substantially
important operation shall, in addition to the other penalties provided in this
title, automatically operate as a forfeiture and cancellation of all permits
obtained in the case of the particular well where such violations occur, and
automatically terminate the right to continue such work or any part thereof
excepting such as may be necessary for safety or to prevent serious loss; and
such operation shall not be continued until a new permit has been obtained and
paid for on the same basis as a new and original permit.
      11.   Full and accurate drilling floor information, and any and all other
full and accurate information pertaining to operations under permits procured
under this title, shall be furnished to the City Manager or any of his/her duly
authorized agents at any time. Such information shall be supplied upon demand
and without unnecessary delay.
      12.   Full police authority for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
of this title is hereby given to the oil and gas inspector or to any other duly
authorized agent of the Board of Commissioners.
      13.   No pipelines of any kind, no power transmission system of any kind,
no communication systems of any kind and no other transmission systems of any
kind shall be erected or installed in, along, across, under or over any street,
alley, highway or railroad right-of-way in the City except by special consent
of the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017)
14-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall be applicable to all wells for which the wellbore is, at any
point, located under the boundaries of the City. The boundaries of the City
shall be determined at the time the well is drilled. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd.
Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-2-3: FENCING:
All wells as defined by section
14-1-1 of this title or any of their related equipment used or capable of being
used in connection with the drilling, maintaining or operation of oil or gas
wells shall be enclosed in site-proof fencing, but one fence will suffice if a
group of wells is enclosed in one tract or parcel of land. Such fence shall be
supported by steel posts or other nonflammable material and shall be woven wire
of not less than 14-gauge wire with mesh of not less than two inches (2") nor
more than four inches (4") and shall be at least six feet (6') high. All gates
allowing access to the premises shall include locks and all gates must remain
locked at all times the premises are unoccupied. (Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-2-4: SLUSH PITS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to build, excavate,
construct or maintain any earthen excavation commonly known as a slush pit for
the deposit of oil, liquid with oil content, gasoline or other oil product,
surface or rotary mud, sand or salt water, or any other waste in connection
with oil wells. (Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-2-5: IMPACT ON STREETS:
   A.   Senate Bill 809, adopted in 2015 by the Oklahoma Legislature and
codified as 52 Oklahoma Statutes 2011 section 137.1 specifically grants
municipalities police power to regulate oil and gas operations regarding road
use and traffic.
   B.   All roads leading from existing public or private roads to the
drilling, pumping or tank area shall be graveled or otherwise hard surfaced and
maintained in a manner to prevent rutting during severe rains, snow or other
inclement weather. The driveway apron connecting to the public or private road
shall be paved in accordance with the zoning ordinance of the City of
Kingfisher, Oklahoma. Driveways serving drilling, pumping or tank areas that do
not have a paved apron and were installed prior to September 11, 2017 may be
assessed a street maintenance fee to help offset the Municipality's increased
cost of maintaining the road due to gravel and mud. Said fee shall be deposited
into the Street and Alley Fund.
   C.   A street usage fee may be assessed as authorized in title 7 of this
Code. Said fee shall be in addition to any other required fees and charges
assessed.
   D.   Where, in installation, erection or construction work by virtue of
permits issued under this title, sidewalks or the surface of streets, alleys or
right-of-ways or any other public property is disturbed, damaged or destroyed,
the same must be replaced, or restored to its original condition, or better, in
as short a period of time thereafter as the same may be reasonably done.
   E.   In accordance with subsections B and C of this section, a fee in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code shall be paid upon assessment.
(Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; amd. Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL PIPELINE PERMIT
SECTION:
14-3-1: Municipal Drilling Permit
14-3-2: Permit Approvals
14-3-3: Charging Of Cost Of Inspection Fee
14-3-1: MUNICIPAL DRILLING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall install any pipeline for the
transportation of any oil, gas, or liquefied petroleum matter in the City
without having previously obtained a permit as provided in this Code.
   B.   Application: Applicants desiring a permit to install pipeline for the
transportation of any oil, gas, or liquefied petroleum matter shall submit an
application that includes the following:
      1.   A filing fee as provided in this Code;
      2.   Date of the application;
      3.   Name of the operator;
      4.   Address of the applicant;
      5.   A description of the substances to be carried;
      6.   A map with summarized specifications showing the location of the
pipeline within the City and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, as well as all
public rights-of-way and utility easement crossings and demonstrating the
depth, pressure rating and dimensions of the proposed pipeline as well as the
location of any shutoff valves;
      7.   A summary description of the time, location, manner, means, and
methods of the installation of the proposed pipeline;
      8.   A statement that the pipeline complies with the applicable standards
required by this Code as well as all applicable Federal, State, and local laws
and regulations;
      9.   The names, titles, and telephone numbers of the following persons:
         a.   The person submitting the information;
         b.   The principal contact for submittal information;
         c.   The 24-hour emergency contact, who:
            (1)   Can initiate appropriate actions to respond to an emergency;
            (2)   Has access to information on the location of the closest
shutoff valve to any specific point in the City or its jurisdiction; and
            (3)   Can furnish the common name of the material then being
carried by the pipeline.
   C.   Fees: In accordance with subsection B of this section, a fee in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code shall be paid at the time of
submission of the application. (Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-3-2: PERMIT APPROVALS:
   A.   All requests for permits required in this chapter will be reviewed and
approved by the Municipal building official, unless otherwise specified in this
section or title. (Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
14-3-3: CHARGING OF COST OF INSPECTION FEE:
   A.   The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to levy a fee for the
permitting and annual inspection for each pipeline installed in the City. The
initial permit fee paid with and accompanying the application in the first
instance, shall also include the fee for the first annual inspection.
   B.   All fees for pipeline installation in the City limits shall be levied
and collected by the City Clerk.
   C.   In the event that the Municipal building official, or their designee,
finds during the course of an inspection of a pipeline that any inspection
point is in poor quality, the operator of said pipeline will be notified of the
issue within ten (10) days and will be requested to have the issue corrected.
There will be a re-inspection of the facility no sooner than sixty (60) days
after notice is given in order to ensure compliance. Re- inspection may occur
sooner if the operator of the pipeline notifies the City that the issue has
been corrected. The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to levy a fee
for inspection and re-inspection for each pipeline laid, operated or maintained
in the City.
   D.   In accordance with subsections A through C of this section, a fee in an
amount set by the Board of Commissioners as provided in the fines and fees
schedule in appendix A, division IV of this Code shall be paid. (Ord. 975, 10-
10-2017)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
(Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 975, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 6
PENALTY
SECTION:
14-6-1: Violation; Penalty
14-6-1: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
title, shall be guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not to exceed the limits established in appendix A, division
III of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In addition,
violation of any of the provisions hereof declared to be a public nuisance
shall be a basis for injunction at the suit of the City of Kingfisher, or at
the suit of any person, firm or corporation adversely affected thereby. (Ord.
975, 10-10-2017)
APPENDIX A
FINES AND FEES SCHEDULE
Fines And Penalties Generally   Division I
Fines For Traffic Related Violations   Division II
Fines For Nontraffic Offenses   Division III
Fees, Rates And Charges   Division IV
DIVISION I.
FINES AND PENALTIES GENERALLY
Fines: Maximum fines or deferral fees for violations of the city code shall
have a maximum amount as follows:
 
1-4-1 Traffic related offenses $200.00
1-4-1 Drug related offenses    $800.00
                               $800.00, $50.00 of which will be sent to a
1-4-1 Alcohol related offenses municipal fund to defray costs of enforcement of
                               laws relating to offenses related to alcohol
1-4-1 All other offenses       $750.00; however, no fine shall exceed that
                               allowed under state law for the same offense
1-4-1 All offenses             Imprisonment is not an allowed punishment for
                               any offense
This table is current with the 2012 session of the Oklahoma legislature. Any
changes made to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-111 shall be immediately
applicable to this table without further action of the city. Copies of the
current version of section 14-111 may be obtained at city hall.
Court Costs: The maximum amount imposed for court costs shall be $50.00, but
may be reduced at the discretion of the judge of the court. (2013 Code)
DIVISION II.
FINES FOR TRAFFIC RELATED VIOLATIONS
Code Section Item Fine
Code Section Item                             Fine
             Traffic violations relating to,
7-1-7        or not relating to, speeding or  $200.00
             parking; or maximum fine for
             traffic violations
Traffic violations not subject to maximum penalty:
7-1-7B1      Seat belt violations (including  20.00
             costs)
7-1-7B2      Antinoise                        100.00
7-1-7B3      Cutting across private property  100.00
7-1-7B4      Depositing or throwing material  100.00
             on roadway
7-1-7B5      Failure to obey traffic control  100.00
             signal
7-1-7B6      Illegal U-turn                   100.00
7-1-7B7      Improper equipment               100.00
7-1-7B8      Parking violations               100.00
7-1-7B9      School zone violations           200.00
                                              $40.00, plus $4.00 for each mile
7-1-7B10     Speeding                         per hour over speed limit up to
                                              maximum fine
7-1-7B11     Vehicle license and registration $100.00
             violations
7-1-7B12     Failure to properly secure child 100.00
             car seat
7-1-7B13     Failure to yield to an emergency 100.00
             vehicle
7-1-7B14     Reckless or distracted driving   100.00
7-1-7B15     Any other violation of state     200.00
             driving laws
7-2-9        Parking violations               100.00
1-4-3        Court costs                      25.00
 
(2013 Code)
DIVISION III.
FINES FOR NONTRAFFIC OFFENSES
Code Section Item Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Code    Item            Minimum Maximum Fine
Section                 Fine
1-9C-6  Emergency               $200.00
        management
        Park use for
1-9D-3D special                 $200.00
        occasions
        Trials and
        judgments; tax
        costs to
        defendant, the
1-12-   maximum sum of          $132.00
14I     $32.00, plus
        fees and
        mileage of
        jurors and
        witnesses
        Failure to
1-12-   appear in
15A2,   response to             $200.00
B2      summons or
        warrant
        Sales Tax,
3-3-10C collection by   $20.00  $200.00
        vendors
        Sales Tax,
3-3-14  fraudulent      $20.00  $200.00
        returns
        Use Tax,
3-4-15  fraudulent              $200.00
        returns
        Hotel Occupancy
3-5-17  Tax, fraudulent         $200.00
        returns
4-1-4   Alcohol related         An amount not to exceed the limits of section
        offenses                1-4-1 of this Code
        Peddlers,
4-2-10  solicitors and          $122.00
        itinerant
        merchants
4-3-5   Taxicabs        $20.00  $122.00
        Commercial
        medical                 An amount not to exceed the limits of section
4-4-6   marijuana               1-4-1 of this Code, per occurrence, with each day being treated as a separate
        growing and/or          occurrence
        processing
        facilities
        Failure to
4-5-6   obtain                  $100.00
        panhandling
        permit
5-3-9A  Junkyards and           $200.00
        salvage yards
5-4-6   Open burning            $200.00
6-1-2C  Bow and arrow   $20.00  $100.00
        use
        Possession of
6-1-2D  loaded pellet   $20.00  $100.00
        or BB gun or
        loaded firearm
                                First offense: $100.00
        Selling or              Second offense within 2 years: $200.00
        furnishing              Third offense within 2 years: $300.00 and the store’s license to sell tobacco
        tobacco,                products or nicotine products or the store’s sales tax permit for a store
        nicotine, or            that is predominantl y engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the
6-2-2B  vapor product           sale of other products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not
        to persons              exceeding thirty (30) days
        under twenty-           Fourth or more offense within 2 years: $300.00 the store’s license to sell
        one (21) years          tobacco products or nicotine products or the store’s sales tax permit for a
        of age                  store that is predominantl y engaged in the sale of vapor products in which
                                the sale of other products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period
                                not exceeding sixty (60) days
        Distributing
        tobacco product
        and vapor               First offense: $100.00
6-2-2C  product samples         Second offense: $200.00
        to persons              Third and subsequent offenses: $300.00
        under twenty-
        one (21) years
        of age
        Allowing public
        access to
6-2-2D  displayed               $200.00 per offense with each day being a separate offense
        tobacco,
        nicotine, or
        vapor products
        Contributing to
6-2-1C  delinquency of          $200.00
        minor
        Gatherings
        where minors
6-2-3E1 consume                 $200.00
        alcoholic
        beverages
6-2-4E  Curfew for      $20.00  $100.00
        minors
        Use of a City
        street by a
        vehicle other
        than an
        ordinary
        private
        passenger
7-3-3C  vehicle or an           $750.00 per axle over 2, with each axle over 2 constituting a sepa-rate
        implement of            offense
        husbandry when
        not necessary
        to complete the
        scope of work
        in which the
        vehicle is
        engaged
8-2-1D  City parks,     $2.00   $100.00
        curfew
        City parks,
        possession of
8-2-2D  alcoholic               $100.00
        beverages and
        low point beer
        Permit for
        construction of
9-1-3D  any distributed         $200.00
        generation
        equipment
        Dumping garbage
9-4-8C  into container          $100.00
        belonging to
        another
        Solid waste
9-4-10  system: first           $100.00
        offense
        Solid waste
        system: second
        offense: fine
        not to exceed
        $200.00, plus
9-4-10  costs, and/or           $200.00 and/or 20 hours community service
        20 hours of
        community
        service in a
        litter
        abatement
        Solid waste
        system: third
        offense: fine
        not to exceed
        $200.00, plus
9-4-10  costs, and/or           $200.00 and/or 100 hours community service
        100 hours of
        community
        service in a
        litter
        abatement
        Permit required
        for
        construction,
        modification
        and demolition:
        a fine of
        $200.00 per
        occurrence,
10-1-   with each day           $200.00 per occurrence, with each day being treated as a separate occurrence
8A1     being treated
        as a separate
        occurrence,
        shall be levied
        against any
        person or
        entity found to
        be in violation
        of this section
        Plumbing work;
        installation of
10-1-   grease traps            $1,000.00
9A5     and/or grease
        trap
        interceptors
10-1-   Fire prevention
11D1    and safety      $5.00   $100.00
        provisions
10-1-   Building Codes          $200.00
12B     and permit
        Power-
10-6-7  generation              $200.00
        towers or
        structures
        Zoning
11-2-4  administration          $200.00
        and enforcement
        Subdivision
12-2-3C administration,         $200.00
        variation and
        enforcement
12-6-5  Soil erosion            $200.00
        control
        Flood damage
13-5-8  prevention              $200.00
        violation
14-6-1  Oil and gas             An amount not to exceed the limits of section
        drilling                1-4-1 of this Code
(Ord. 811, 10-17-1995; amd. Ord. 827, 6-2-1998; Ord. 839, 10-5-1999; Ord. 852,
3-12-2001; Ord. 862, 6-11-2001; Ord. 869, 9-10-2001; Ord. 870, 9-10-2001; Ord.
875, 12-10-2001; Ord. 916, 2-11-2008; Ord. 919, 9-8-2008; Ord. 920, 11-10-2008;
Ord. 927, 6-14-2010; Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; Ord. 941, 11-
14-2011; Ord. 943, 3-12-2012; 2013 Code; Ord. 949, 9-9-2013; Ord. 968, 8-14-
2017; Ord. 969, 8-14-2017; Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; Ord. 975, 10-10-2017; Ord.
2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018; Ord. 2019-007, 4-8-2019; Ord. 2019-009, 6-
5-2019, eff. 6-7-2019; Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019; Ord. 2024-002, 3-11-2024; ORd.
2024-007, 8-12-2024)
DIVISION IV.
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
1-9B-4F1: Fire Department; ambulance service charges:
Fire: No charge.
Ambulance/EMS services:
Service Cost
Service                    Cost
ALS Emergent               $2,000.41
ALS Non-Emergent           $1,269.09
ALS2                       $2,908.36
BLS Emergent               $1,692.15
BLS Non-Emergent           $1,057.55
Mileage                    $45.05
Treatment and No Transport $375.00
No Treat and No Transport  $100.00
 
   All Ambulance/EMS rates are the same for residents and nonresidents.
   ALS: Advanced life support
   ALS2: Advanced life support 2
   BLS: Basic life support
   The definitions of ALS, ALS2, and BLS shall be the same definitions used
under Medicare Coding rules and regulations.
 
1-9B-5C: Fire calls outside City limits: $250.00 for first hour; $100.00 for
each hour thereafter.
2-3-5: Fee for hearing appeals: $150.00.
3-1-4B: Public record search and copying fees: $0.25 per page.
For excessive searches, additional fees will be posted in City Hall in
accordance with 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 24A.5.
4-1-3A2: Occupational Tax for Certificate of Compliance:
1. Brewer                                                      $1,250.00
2. Distiller or rectifier                                      3,125.00
3. Winemaker                                                   625.00
4. Oklahoma winemaker                                          75.00
5. Wholesaler                                                  3,500.00
6. Class B wholesaler                                          625.00
7. Retail package store                                        250.00
8. Beer, wine, mixed beverage, caterer with onsite consumption 250.00
9. Special event                                               $25.00 per event
10. Retail store selling wine or beer with no onsite           $250.00
consumption
4-2-6F: Peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants:
   For 1 day: $30.00
   For 3 days: $75.00
   For 7 days: $100.00
4-3-2C: Taxicab service, license application fee: $10.00.
4-4-1B: Retail marijuana establishment permit: $100.00
4-4-3:      Medical marijuana dispensary:
         1. Non-refundable, first time application fee: $100.00.
         2. Annual license fee: $1,000.00.
4-4-4:      Commercial medical marijuana growing or processing facilities:
         1. Non-refundable, first time application fee: $100.00.
         2. Annual license fee for growing facilities: $1,250.00.
         3. Annual license fee for processing facilities: $1,500.00
4-4-5:      Commercial medical marijuana wholesale or storage facilities:
         1. Non-refundable, first time application fee: $100.00.
         2. Annual license fee for wholesale and/or storage facilities:
$1,500.00
5-3-5B: Junkyards and salvage yards, license application fee: $25.00.
5-4-4A: Open burning permit fees:
   1.   Bonfires: $5.00
   2.   Campfires: $5.00
   3.   Ceremonial fires: $5.00
   4.   Prevention or control of disease or pests: $25.00
   5.   Elimination of hazards: $25.00
5-5-2:      Public fireworks display: $25.00
5-5-3:      Annual retail fireworks sales permit: $25.00
6-3-15C: Fees for impoundment, keeping, and redemption of animals:
Impoundment: $35.00
Keeping: $5.00 per calendar day (whether full or partial)
Redemption: No additional charge
6-3-15E: Voluntary surrender of animals: $100.00.
7-3-2: Injurious or obstructive vehicles; oversized vehicle permits: $500.00.
8-4-4: Cemetery fees and charges:
Item Amount
Item                                                                    Amount
Cemetery fees and charges:                                               
Interment                                                               $350.00
Interment on Saturday or Monday morning                                 500.00
Interment, grave opening for infant                                     125.00
Interment, grave opening for infant on Saturday or Monday morning       250.00
Cremation remains, interment                                            150.00
Cremation remains, interment on Saturday or Monday morning              250.00
Disinterment                                                            600.00
Cemetery spaces, adult size approximately 5'x10'                        300.00
Cemetery spaces, infant size approximately 3'x5'                        125.00
Grave marker permit fee                                                 50.00
Grave markers for deceased persons who served in any branch of the U.S. No fee
Armed Forces
 
9-1-3: Utilities, application for service; deposit; rates:
9-1-3B2a:
   SERVICE/METER DEPOSIT
 
                    Owner Rate Renter Rate
Residential service $250.00    $350.00
Water/no electric   100.00     150.00
Sanitation only     25.00      75.00
9-1-3B3: Commercial deposit: All commercial or nonresidential customers shall
be required to post a deposit in an amount equal to 2 months' average bill of
the location to be connected. In the event that an average has not been
determined for the location, an average will be estimated until such time as an
average can be determined. At that time, the deposit will be adjusted to the
required amount. If the estimated deposit posted is in excess of the required
amount, the City will refund the portion of the deposit above the required
deposit amount. In the event the estimated deposit posted is less than the
required deposit, the customer will be billed for the additional deposit amount
and it will become due and payable at that time. Failure to post the additional
deposit shall establish cause to terminate service. In no event shall a
commercial deposit be less than $300.00.
9-1-4A: Utilities, rates and charges:
   1.   Late utility payments: The fee for late payment of utilities shall be
7.5 percent.
   2.   Reconnect fee: $15.00; $25.00 after normal business hours, on weekends
or holidays. If a line crew is dispatched for a reconnect, a service fee of
$50.00 will be charged; $75.00 after normal business hours, on weekends or
holidays.
   3.   Account close out/final disconnect fee: $25.00.
   4.   Return check fee: The fee for all checks that have been returned by any
bank or other financial institution for any reason, including, but not limited
to, insufficient funds, stop payment, or account closed shall be $25.00.
   5.   Tampering fee: The fee for tampering with any water or electric
equipment used by the Public Works Authority to deliver or register utility
service shall be $200.00 for each article of tampered equipment.
   6.   Electric rates: All electric current shall be used through meters and
at rates fixed by the City Manager and approved by the Public Works Authority.
Electric rates shall be as follows:
 
Electric     $/kWh
Residential Service Availability Charge - $22.00 per month
Rate per kWh $0.094
Commercial Service Availability Charge - $32.75 per month
Rate per kWh 0.115
 
 
Installation of or upgrade to permanent the cost of the meter and other
electrical service                      equipment/materials, plus actual cost
                                        of installation
Installation of temporary electrical    $50.00
service
                                        $100.00 (defined as nonholiday weekdays
After hours/holiday reconnect fee       before 8:00 A.M. and after 5:00 P.M.,
                                        all holidays and all weekends)
 
   7. Residential distributed generation customers: Minimum fee of $45.00. The
energy charge, demand charge and customer charge will be based on the average
of the previous 12 months of kilowatt hours used by the potential distributed
generation customer at the time of the building permit application. A formula
will be used to determine all charges that will protect the customer and
utility.
9-1-10: Utility credit agreement: $50.00.
9-2-1A: There shall be no permit fee for water taps within the City of
Kingfisher. The fee for installation of a residential, 1 inch water tap within
the City of Kingfisher shall be the actual cost of the meter, the tap and the
installation. The fee for the installation of all commercial taps and any
residential water taps over 1 inch installed within the City of Kingfisher
shall be the actual cost of the meter, the tap and the installation, plus 10
percent.
9-2-1B: There shall be a nonrefundable permit fee of $50.00 for the application
for a water tap located outside of the Municipal boundaries of the City of
Kingfisher. The fee for installation of a residential, 1 inch water tap outside
of the Municipal boundaries of the City of Kingfisher shall be the actual cost
of the meter, the tap and the installation, plus 10 percent. The fee for
installation of all commercial taps and any residential water taps over 1 inch
installed outside of the Municipal boundaries of the City of Kingfisher shall
be the actual cost of the meter, the tap and the installation, plus 15 percent.
9-2-1C2: Water well use permit fee: $25.00.
9-2-3A: Water rates:
   WATER
   Service availability charge: $21.00 per month
 
                 Price Per Gallon Price Per Unit
                                  1 Unit = 750 Gallons 1 Unit = 1,000 Gallons
1 - 10 units     $0.00246         $1.85                $2.46
11 - 20 units    0.00263          1.97                 2.63
21 or more units 0.00282          2.12                 2.82
 
 
9-3-1D: Sewer connection charges:
1.For single-family residential units, the charge for connecting to the sewer
shall be $150.00.
2.Multi-family residential units utilizing a single connection to the public
sewer shall be charged $150.00 for each residential unit served by the
connection.
3.Commercial and light industrial users which generate only domestic wastes
shall be charged for a residential connection for each connection not exceeding
4 inches in diameter.
4.Charges for larger connections shall be established by the Board of City
Commissioners on a case by case basis.
9-3-2A2: Sewerage user rates:
Sewer Usage
Monthly Service: $14.00
                 Price per Unit
 Price Per Gallon 1 Unit = 750 Gallons 1 Unit = 1,000 Gallons
Sewer Usage
Monthly Service: $14.00
                                  Price per Unit
                Price Per Gallon   1 Unit = 750 Gallons 1 Unit = 1,000 Gallons
1 - 10 Units     $0.00229           $1.72                $2.29
11 - 20 Units    $0.00253           $1.90                $2.53
21 or more units $0.00271           $2.03                $2.71
Access fee with no associated water $10.00                
meter
 
9-4-3: Solid waste collection rates:
 
   Polycart
                      Polycart
Residential:           
 Within City limits  $16.21
  Additional cart   9.12
 Outside City limits 17.42
  Additional cart   9.12
Commercial:            
 Within City limits  16.97
 Outside City limits 17.87
 
 
Size Frequency Per Week Extra Pick Up
Size                            Frequency Per Week      Extra Pick Up
                                1 Time  2 Times 3 Times
Containers within City limits:                        
 2 yard                        $36.4 1 $ 66.78 $ 97.15 $32.79
 4 yard                        66.78   127.48  188.19  57.07
 6 yard                        84.98   163.89  242.80  81.34
 8 yard                        103.1 9 200.30  297.42  93.48
Containers outside City limits:                       
 2 yard                        38.86   69.22   99.57   34.00
 4 yard                        69.19   129.89  190.60  58.29
 6 yard                        87.41   166.31  245.22  82.56
 8 yard                        105.6 0 202.72  299.83  94.70
 
 
Lock bar         $5.38
Replace polycart $60.70
 
9-4-3-1: City Convenience Center Rates:
 Drop Off at Site (Each) Curbside Pickup (Each)
                                         Drop Off at Site  Curbside Pickup
                                         (Each)            (Each)
Solid Waste:
   Up to 55 gallon bag:               $5                $7
Green Waste:
   Small limbs & brush 6" diameter or $5                $8
less
   Limbs & branches over 6" diameter  $5                $10
   Small load pick-up or small trailer$10               $17
   Medium load trailer over 12'       $15               $25
   Large load trailer over 12' stacked$20               $35
   No grass, leaves, or chippings. Residential use only.
Furniture:
   Desk/dresser/chest/shelving/table  $15               $20
   Bed frame/chair                    $10               $15
   Couch/loveseat                     $15               $20
   Mattress or box spring             $10               $15
Appliances:
   Refrigerator/freezer (green tag    $10               $20
certified)
   Air conditioner (green tag certifie$10               $20
   Washer/dryer/oven/stove            $10               $20
   Hot water heater                   $10               $20
   Microwave/small appliance/other met$5                $10
Fence Panel:
   6x8                                $15               $25
Miscellaneous:
   Pallets                            $7                $10
   Chain link rolls less than 1'      $10               $15
diameter
   Chain link rolls between 1' and 2' $15               $20
diameter
 
Title 10, Chapter 1, Codes And Code Administration:
Fees for registration of contractors and for building permits, as provided for
in title 10, chapter 1 of this Code, shall be as follows:
   FEE SCHEDULE
Contractor registration:                    
 Electrical - first year                  $100.00
   Renewal prior to expiration           50.00
 Mechanical, heating, and air             100.00
  conditioning contractor - first year
   Renewal prior to expiration           50.00
 Plumbing - first year                    100.00
   Renewal prior to expiration           50.00
 Roofing - first year                     100.00
   Renewal prior to expiration           50.00
 Structural and/or Load Bearing Work-     100.00
  First year
   Renewal prior to expiration           50.00
Building permits (new construction,
additions and remodels) which include
applicable building, mechanical,            
electrical, and plumbing inspections for
new construction:
     A fraction of 100 square feet shall
 *  be rounded up to the next 100 square
     feet
       Residential construction of, or
      addition to, 1 - 2 family           $0.12 sq. ft. $50.00 min.
       dwellings:
       Commercial construction, or
      addition to, nonresidential         $0.15 sq. ft $60.00 min.
       buildings or residential buildings
       greater than 1 - 2 family:
       Residential construction of, or
    addition to, storage buildings,
       sheds, or carports
    Up to 300 square feet               $35.00
    Over 301 square feet                $0.08 sq. ft. $45.00 min.
     Permit fees for construction of, or
     addition to, multi-family buildings
     (such as apartments, hotels, or
 B. assisted living centers) and           
     institutional buildings (such as
     hospitals, nursing homes, or
     childcare facilities):
    Up to 2,500 square feet             $500.00
    2,501 to 5,000 square feet          $900.00
    Over 5,000 square feet              $950.00 plus $8.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 6,000
 C. Permit fees for construction of or     
     addition to nonresidential buildings:
    0 to 3,000 square feet              $480.00
    3,100 to 5,000 square feet          $480.00 plus $7.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 3,000
    5,100 to 10,000 square feet         $620.00 plus $5.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 5,000
    10,100 square feet or larger        $870.00 plus $2.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 10,000
     *A fraction of 100 square feet shall
   be rounded up to the next 100 square
     feet
     Permit fees for construction of or
 D. addition to storage buildings,         
     carports, warehouses or shell
     buildings:
    0 to 500 square feet                $30.00
    600 to 1,500 square feet            $30.00 plus $12.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 500
    1,600 to 4,000 square feet          $150.00 plus $6.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 1,500
    4,100 square feet or larger         $300.00 plus $2.00 per 100 square
                                           feet over 4,000
     *A fraction of 100 square feet shall
   be rounded up to the next 100 square
     feet
Miscellaneous building permits:
 Residential Roofing - Repair             $45.00
 Commercial Roofing - Repair/Replace      $75.00
 Temporary Sign                           $50.00
 In ground swimming pool                  $75.00
 Above ground swimming pool               $25.00
 Fence/retaining wall                     $35.00
 Curb cut                                 $25.00
 Safe room/storm shelter                  $40.00
 Mobile home, manufactured home, travel   $70.00
  trailer
 Temporary structure                      $50.00
 Moving structure                         $15.00
 Earthwork - minor                        $45.00
 Earthwork - major                        $100.00
 Driveway/tinhorn/cuts/alterations        $100.00
 Carports                                 $25.00
 Demolition                               $30.00
 Miscellaneous                            Varies
ADMINISTRATIVE
State Uniform Building Code fee Applies to
each construction permit granted (new or
repair), not to be applied to each trade   $4.50
in multicraft projects. ($4.00 State,
$0.50 City)
 2nd Inspection - Partial Completion      $50.00
 Re-inspection - Full Re-inspection       $100.00
 Third-Party Inspections                  $25.00 + invoiced cost
 Legal Review                             $150.00 + invoiced cost
 Consultant Engineering Review            $100.00 + invoiced cost
 Admin - (Substantial Permit Change)      Varies
 Admin - Tech Review                      $15.00
 Plan Review - In House                   $50.00
 Plan Review - Third-Party                $25.00 + invoiced cost
 Certificate of Occupancy/Compliance      $100.00
 Certificate of Occupancy Re-inspection   $100.00
 Unlicensed - Unregistered Contractor     $200.00
 Unpermitted Construction                 3 x the permit or $200.00, whichever
                                           is greater
ELECTRICAL PERMIT
New Construction
 Residential up to 200 amps               $0.07 sq. ft. min. $50.00
 Commercial up to 200 amps                $0.10 sq. ft., min. $60.00
Remodel/Repair
 Residential                              $50.00
 Commercial                               $75.00
Minor Project (Porch, Patio, Shed <300 sq. $35.00
ft., etc.)
Miscellaneous                              $35.00
Residential Generator up to 200 amp
permit, include plumber & basic plumbing   $45.00 plus basic plumbing fee
fee for each generator permit
Commercial Generator, Res over 200 amp
each generator permit, include concrete,   $100.00 plus basic plumbing fee
plumber & basic plumbing fee for each
generator permit
Power generation tower or structure        $125.00
Solar panel - Residential up to 200        $125.00
application
Commercial Security Alarm System           $75.00
Commercial Fire Alarm System               $75.00
All fees involving Electrical Department: Actual Cost Minimum 1 Hour (labor,
equipment & materials)
Installation of permanent electrical       Actual cost + base inspection fee
service
Service disconnection or connection        Actual cost + base inspection fee
New 3 Phase Service                        Actual cost
3 Phase (Upsize existing)                  Actual cost
Temporary electrical service (T-pole)      Actual cost + base inspection fee
Meter                                      Actual cost + 10%
Meter Base                                 Actual cost + 10%
Pedestal                                   Actual cost + 10%
After hours/holiday reconnect fee -        $50.00 plus actual cost of
(defined as nonholiday weekdays before 8:  installation (labor, equipment &
00 A.M. and after 5:00 P.M., all holidays  material)
and all weekends)
MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
New Construction or Remodel
 Residential                              $0.05 sq. ft. min. $50.00
 Commercial                               $0.07 sq. ft., min. $65.00
Remodel/ Repair
 Residential                              $45.00
 Commercial                               $60.00
Heating and cooling: Replacements
 Ductwork                                 $0.04 sq. ft. min $35.00
 Fan Coil Units with Duct (use with VAV,  $35.00
  VRF, Central Chiller)
  Forced air heating/cooling: gas or
 electric (per unit) (per unit) Up to     $40.00
  500K BTU or 25 ton per appliance
  Forced air heating/cooling: gas or
 electric over 500K BTU or 25 ton per     $50.00
  appliance (per unit)
 Residential Split system unit            $50.00
 Commercial Split system unit             $60.00
  Self-contained heat and air
 conditioning: gas or electric (per unit) $40.00
  Up to 500K BTU or 25 ton per appliance
  Self-contained heat and air
 conditioning: gas or electric (per unit) $60.00
  Over 500K BTU or 25 ton per appliance
Refrigeration: New Construction or Replacement
 From 1/8 HP to and including 25 HP and/  $35.00
  or tons
 From 25 HP to 100 HP and/or tons         $50.00
 Over 100 HP and/or tons                  $75.00
Miscellaneous mechanical permits
 Commercial exhaust hood                  $50.00
 Range Hood & Maintenance Inspections     $50.00
 Minor Repair                             $35.00
PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
New Construction
 Residential                              $0.06 sq. ft., min. $40.00
 Commercial                               $0.08 sq. ft., min. $50.00
 Remodel
 Residential                              $50.00
 Commercial                               $65.00
 Miscellaneous - Minor Inspections        $35.00
 Gas line Inspection (Natural Gas and     $25.00
  Propane)
 Irrigation                               $25.00
 Grease/sand trap maintenance inspection  $50.00
 Sewer tap                                $250.00
 Sewer residential re-tap                 $35.00
 Sewer commercial re-tap                  $50.00
 Sewer line repair/replacement            $30.00
 Water tap                                $350.00
 Fire sprinkler/fire suppression          $50.00 plus 3rd party
 Minor Repair                             $35.00
MISCELLANEOUS PERMIT FEES
 Firework Display Permit                  $40.00
 Annual Retail Firework Sales Permit      $35.00
 
10-4-3D: Sign permit fee: $50.00.
10-6-6: Power-generation tower or structure or solar panel application fee:
$100.00.
11-2-2B: Zoning; conditional use permit fee (paid with application): $150.00.
11-11-7C: Zoning; Special Supplemental District; design statement, fees: There
is a filing fee of $1,200.00, plus $15.00 per acre or fraction thereof, plus 2
public hearing fees of $50.00 each.
11-12-2B: Zoning; application for amendment; fees: An application for amendment
shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee of $250.00 to cover the costs of
notice and posting and administrative review. Said fee shall be payable in 2
parts: $150.00 for the hearing before the Planning Commission and $100.00 for
the hearing before the City Commission.
11-12-4C1: Zoning; Planning Commission action: An application recommended for
denial shall not be considered further, and $100.00 of the fee required in
subsection 11-12-2B of this appendix shall be refunded (if previously paid) to
the applicant unless the applicant, within 15 days from the date of the
Planning Commission action, files a written request with the City Commission
for a hearing, whereupon a fee of $100.00 shall accompany the request for a
hearing before the City.
12-4-4A2: Subdivisions; inspection and maintenance of improvements: The
applicant shall pay to the City an inspection fee of 2 percent of the amount of
the estimated cost of required improvements.
12-5-3A: Preliminary plat filing fee: $250.00, plus $20.00 per acre included in
preliminary plat. Acreage to be dedicated to the City of Kingfisher shall not
be included in the fee calculation.
12-5-3B: Final plat filing fee: $500.00, plus $10.00 per lot for lots 1 through
50 and $7.00 per lot for each lot over 50. Lots dedicated to the City of
Kingfisher shall not be included in the fee calculation.
13-5-7: Flood damage prevention fees:
 
Item                                             Amount
Notice of intent fee                             $20.00, maximum
Floodplain development permit application review $100.00
Floodplain development permit fee                25.00
Inspection fee, per inspection                   25.00
Variance request filing fee                      25.00
14-1-3: Oil and gas drilling application filing fee: $15,000.00.
14-2-5: Impact on streets: $25,000.00 per mile for the first 5 years and
$10,000.00 per mile for the remaining life of the well. In determining the
applicable fee, all distances shall be rounded up to the next full mile.
14-3-1: Municipal drilling permit: $500.00.
14-3-3: Charging of cost of inspection fee: $500.00 for annual inspections and
$250.00 for each re-inspection.
(Ord. 807, 2-21-1995; amd. Ord. 831, 8-4-1998; Ord. 849, 12-19-2000; Ord. 855,
3-12-2001; Ord. 870, 9-10-2001; Ord. 919, 9-8-2008; Ord. 925, 4-12-2010; Ord.
927, 6-14-2010; Ord. 930, 12-13-2010; Ord. 933, 7-7-2011; Ord. 934, 8-8-2011;
Ord. 938, 11-14-2011; Ord. 939, 11-14-2011; Ord. 940, 11-14-2011; Ord. 941, 11-
14-2011; 2013 Code; Ord. 946, 7-8-2013; Ord. 947, 7-8-2013; Ord. 951, 10-15-
2013; Ord. 952, 8-11-2014; Ord. 955, 4-13-2015; Ord. 961, 9-14-2015; Ord. 966,
6-12-2017; Ord. 968, 8-14-2017; Ord. 969, 8-14-2017; Ord. 972, 9-11-2017; Ord.
973, 9-11-2017; Ord. 975, 10-10-2017; Ord. 981, 5-13-2018; Ord. 2018-006, 7-9-
2018; Ord. 2018-008, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018; Ord. 2018-012, 9-10-2018; Ord.
2018-014, 10-9-2018; Ord. 2018-015, 11-13-2018; Ord. 2018-017, 11-13-2018; Ord.
2019-001, 2-11-2019; Ord. 2019-006, 3-11-2019; Ord. 2019-009, 6-5-2019, eff. 6-
7-2019; Ord. 2019-012, 9-9-2019; Ord. 2020-007, 3-9-2020; Ord. 2021-003, 4-12-
2021; Ord. 2024-001, 2-12-2024; Ord. 2024-004, 5-13-2024; Ord. 2024-005, 6-10-
2024; Ord. 2024-007, 8-12-2024; Ord. 2025-003, 3-10-2025; Ord. 2025-005, 5-12-
2025)
