TOWN CODE
OF
LOCUST GROVE
OKLAHOMA
2018
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-03, passed April 15, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Locust Grove, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2024-03, passed April 15, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LOCUST GROVE TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title; Authority
1-1-2: Acceptance Of Code
1-1-3: Amendments; Keeping Code Up To Date
1-1-4: Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-6: Sale Of Copies Of Code
1-1-7: Filing Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
Upon the adoption by the Town Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Town Code of Locust Grove.
This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LOCUST GROVE TOWN CODE
and is hereby published with the authority granted in 11 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14-108 and 14-109 and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the Town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. This Code may also be cited as "Town Code" or in the
provisions that follow, "this Code". Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Code by title in any legal documents. (2014 Code §§ 1-101, 1-103;
amd. 2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE OF CODE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS; KEEPING CODE UP TO DATE:
   A.   Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
   B.   By contract or by Town personnel, a change, or supplement, to this Code
adopted herein shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by
the Board of Trustees. A change to this Code shall include all substantive
permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees or
adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the change
and all changes made hereby in this Code. Any paper version of this Code shall
have pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete replaced with new
pages so that, when they have been inserted, this Code will be up to date to
the date to which this Code is being brought up to date. Any official
electronic version of this Code shall be updated to reflect such changes as
well. After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of copies of
the change equal at least to the number of copies of this Code still in
existence shall be deposited in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The
Town Clerk-Treasurer, if possible, shall notify each holder of the copy of the
original Code about the availability of the change or supplement. (2018 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   All ordinances of the Town now in effect within the Town are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the Town
outside the corporate limits of the Town, and are in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the Town which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the
boundaries of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   B.   Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the Town shall be deemed to
mean and include also the outlying real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the Town, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (2014
Code § 1-113)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the Town and shall be returned to the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer when directed to do so by order of the Town Board of Trustees.
(2018 Code)
1-1-6: SALE OF COPIES OF CODE:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of
this Code to the public at a price determined from time to time by resolution
of the Board of Trustees. (2018 Code)
1-1-7: FILING COPIES OF CODE:
At least three (3) copies of the current Code, as amended or supplemented from
time to time, shall be kept on file on the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
These copies of this Code shall be available for persons desiring to examine
this Code. Such Codes shall be certified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer as may be
required. Per 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-110, a copy of the ordinance
adopting this Code shall be filed in the Office of the County Clerk. At least
one copy of the permanent volume and each biennial supplement shall be
deposited in the County Law Library. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the Town; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The Town Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretation
1-3-1-1: Conflicting Provisions
1-3-1-2: References In Code
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines And Headings
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Town Board of Trustees may be
fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Time Of Performance: The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any section or any order issued pursuant to any section, when
expressed in days, and is computed by excluding the first and including the
last day. If the last day is a Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall not be
counted in the computation. When the time is expressed in hours, the whole of
Sunday or a legal holiday from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight is excluded.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is
imposed upon a public officer or employee, the power may be performed by an
authorized deputy or designee or by any person authorized pursuant to law or
ordinance, unless this Code expressly provides otherwise.
   E.   Gender: Words imposing the masculine include the feminine and neuter as
well as the masculine. The use of any gender based pronoun should not be
construed to be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive and discretionary; the word
"shall" is mandatory.
   G.   Or; And: The word "or" may be read "and"; the word "and" may be read
"or" if the sense requires it.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the Town of Locust Grove".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Definitions: Definitions given within a chapter or article apply only
to words or phrases used in such chapter or article unless otherwise provided.
   M.   Law: Applicable Federal law and court decisions, court decisions and
provisions of the Constitution and Statutes of the State, and ordinances of the
Town, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   N.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Town
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Town's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. Ordinances of
the Town shall include all amendments and supplements thereto. (2014 Code § 1-
102; amd. 2018 Code)
1-3-1-1: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the provisions of different parts, chapters, articles or sections of
this Code conflict with or contradict each other, the provisions of each part,
chapter, article or section shall prevail as to all matters and questions
growing out of the subject matter of that part, chapter, article or section.
   B.   If clearly conflicting provisions are found in different sections of
the same chapter, the provisions of the section last enacted shall prevail
unless the construction is inconsistent with the meaning of that section. (2014
Code § 1-104)
1-3-1-2: REFERENCES IN CODE:
   A.   Any reference in this Code to an ordinance or provision of this Code
means such ordinance or provision as may now exist or is hereafter amended.
   B.   Any references in this Code to parts, chapters, articles or sections
shall be to the parts, chapters, articles or sections of this Code unless
otherwise specified. (2014 Code § 1-105)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances, the following definitions
shall be observed unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Mayor and
Town Board of Trustees or the context clearly requires otherwise:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Governing Body of the Town, the Town Board of Trustees.
COUNTY: Mayes County, Oklahoma.
DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE: Regarding an official of the Town, the authorized
agent, employee or representative of such official.
HEALTH OFFICER: Administrator of the Cooperative Department of the County and
the Town.
MAYOR: The Mayor of the Town.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OATH: Any form of attestation by which a person signifies that he is bound in
conscience to perform an act or to speak faithfully and truthfully, and
includes an affirmation or declaration in cases where, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath.
ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the Town and all amendments and supplements
thereto.
OWNER: One who has complete dominion over particular property and who is the
one in whom legal or equitable title rests; when applied to a building or land,
"owner" means any part owner, joint owner, owner of a community or partnership
interest, life tenant, tenant in common, or joint tenant of the whole or part
of such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, natural person, joint stock company, partnership,
voluntary association, club, firm, company, corporation, business trust,
organization, or any other bodies corporate or politic or group acting as a
unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, partner, member, director,
officer or employee of any of them including an executor, administrator,
trustee, receiver, or other representative appointed according to law.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any money, goods, moveable chattels, things in action,
evidence of debt, all objects and rights which are capable of ownership, and
every other species of property except real property.
PUBLIC PLACE: Means and includes any public street, road or highway, alley,
lane, sidewalk, crosswalk, or other public way, or any public resort, place of
amusement, stadium, athletic field, park, playground, public building or
grounds appurtenant thereto, school building or school grounds, public parking
lot or any vacant lot, the elevator, lobby, halls, corridors and areas open to
the public of any store, office, or apartment building, or any other place
commonly open to the public.
REAL PROPERTY: Land, together with all things attached to the land so as to
become a part thereof.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property along the margin of a street or other highway, designed, constructed
and intended for the use of pedestrians to the exclusion of vehicles.
STATE: The State of Oklahoma.
STATUTES: The Oklahoma Statutes as they are now or as they may be amended.
STREET: All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways, roads, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, docks built on the public
streets, alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs, sidewalks, recreation and park
lands used for vehicular traffic, or other public ways or thoroughfares in the
Town, over which it has jurisdiction, which have been or may hereafter be
dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so designated
in any law of this State.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: When applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies or is in possession of the whole or a part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The Town of Locust Grove, in the County of Mayes and State of Oklahoma.
TOWN LIMITS: Within the Town and includes not only the corporate limits of the
Town but also any property which it owns or which is under its jurisdiction.
WATERCOURSE: Any drain, ditch and stream flowing in a definite direction or
course in a bed with banks.
WEEK: Seven (7) days. Publication of a newspaper of any notice or other matter
indicated to be stated for a number of weeks shall be construed to mean one
insertion each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of the week
or for more than one day in each week; all publications made in accordance with
the terms of this sentence are hereto validated.
WRITING OR WRITTEN: Includes "printed" and "printing", except in case of
signatures, and where the words are used by way of contrast to printing,
writing may be made in any manner; except, that when a person entitled to
require the execution of a writing demands that it be made with ink, it must be
so made.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2014 Code §§ 1-102, 10-103; amd. 2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS:
The catchlines and headings of the several sections of this Code are intended
as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section, are intended only
for convenience in arrangement and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of
such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify, alter or in any manner
affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any section hereof,
nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violations; General Penalty
1-4-2: Relief By Civil Action
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: VIOLATIONS; GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Violation An Offense: The doing of any of the acts or things
prohibited, or failing to do any of the acts or things commanded to be done, as
more fully specified and set forth by any provision of this Code or any title,
chapter or article hereof, or future ordinances of the Town, is hereby declared
to be an offense against the good order, public peace, morals, health, proper
government and welfare of the Town and unlawful. (2014 Code § 10-104)
   B.   Penalties Established:
      1.   Whenever in this Code, in any ordinance of the Town, or in any rule
or regulation promulgated pursuant to this Code, any act or failure to do a
required act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided herein or therefor, the
violation any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or rule shall be
punishable by a fine, or deferral fee in lieu of a fine, of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00), excluding court costs. If a penalty is limited by
State law, such violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum
permitted by State law or the amount declared by the Town, if not greater than
State law. (2014 Code §§ 1-108, 15-1402; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Each day any person is in violation of any provision of this Code
and each day any such violation occurs or continues to exist shall be a
separate offense. (2014 Code § 1-109)
   C.   Effect Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The suspension or
revocation of any license, certificate or other privilege conferred by the Town
shall not be regarded as a penalty for the purposes of this Code but shall be
in addition thereto. (2014 Code § 1-108)
   D.   Penalty Not To Excuse Offense: The imposition of one penalty for an
offense shall not excuse it or permit it to continue, nor prevent the
imposition of further penalties, should the offenses be continued or permitted
to continue. (2014 Code § 10-105)
   E.   Aiding An Offense:
      1.   Whenever in this Code any act or omission is made unlawful or
prohibited, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, altering,
abetting or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (2014 Code § 1-110;
amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense or
misdemeanor and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2014
Code § 10-102)
1-4-2: RELIEF BY CIVIL ACTION:
No penalty imposed by or pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this chapter or any other section of this Code or other ordinance of
the Town shall interfere with the right of the Town to apply to the proper
courts of the State for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
relief in the case of violations of this Code or other ordinances. (2014 Code §
1-111)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2018 Code)
   D.   Territorial Applicability: Except as provided otherwise, this Code
refers only to the commission or omission of acts within the territorial limits
of the Town and to that territory outside the Town over which the Town has
jurisdiction, ownership or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision, or any law. (2014 Code § 1-112)
1-4-4: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL TOWN MAP
SECTION:
1-5-1: Map Designated
1-5-1: MAP DESIGNATED:
The map of the Town, showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the
office at Town Hall, is hereby designated as the official map of the Town, and
the corporate limits as shown thereon, as amended, are declared to be the true
and correct corporate limits of the Town, including all annexations made to the
Town through and including the date of June 16, 2014. (2014 Code § 1-201; amd.
2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FORM OF GOVERNMENT; MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Form Of Government
1-6-2: Board Of Trustees And Other Elected Officials
1-6-3: Powers And Duties Of Mayor And Acting Mayor
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-6-1: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The Town is governed under the Board of Trustees form of government. The Board
of Trustees shall consist of five (5) Trustees. All powers of the Town shall be
exercised in the manner prescribed by this Code, by State Statute and by
ordinances adopted by the Town Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 2-101)
1-6-2: BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND OTHER ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Composition: The Board of Trustees shall consist of five (5) members
who shall be elected at large. (2014 Code § 2-102; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Terms Of Office; Elected Officials:
      1.   The term of office for a Trustee shall be four (4) years beginning
at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday following the general
Municipal election. The Trustee shall serve until his successor is elected and
qualified. The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
Municipal election, the following Trustees are elected for four (4) year terms:
         a.   Trustees from positions one, three and five; and
         b.   Clerk-Treasurer.
      2.   At the next general Municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four (4) year terms: Trustees from positions two and four.
   C.   Vacancies: The resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a
general or special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the
number of four (4) year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be
filled. (2014 Code § 2-102)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR AND ACTING MAYOR:
The Mayor and Acting Mayor shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by
State law and as may be prescribed by ordinance. (2014 Code § 2-104)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be
held on the second Monday of each month at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. at
the Town Hall unless otherwise scheduled by the Board. If such a day falls on a
holiday, the regular meeting may be held at that time on the next day which is
not a holiday or a Saturday or Sunday.
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other
place in the Town designated by the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any
three (3) Trustees.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of all the members of the Board shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day. (2018
Code)
1-6-5: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
The Board of Trustees may from time to time adopt rules to govern the
proceedings thereof. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Elected Position; Term Of Office
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Examination Of Books And Accounts
1-7-1: ELECTED POSITION; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer is a combined position in the Town. Said position is
elected by all registered and qualified electors within the Town. The person so
elected shall serve as the Town Clerk and Town Treasurer. (2014 Code § 2-106
#1)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
   A.   As Clerk, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall: (2014 Code § 2-106 #2; amd.
2018 Code)
      1.   Keep the journal of proceedings of the Board of Trustees;
      2.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of
Trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records, and archives as may be provided
by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the Town Seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the Seal of the Town to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the Clerk as may be prescribed by law or ordinance or by
the Board. (2014 Code § 2-106 #2)
   B.   As Treasurer, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his/her duly designated
representative shall: (2014 Code § 2-106 #2; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been
paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the Town in depositories as the
Board may designate; and
      3.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to the
statutory duties of the Treasurer as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
(2014 Code § 2-106 #2)
1-7-3: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS:
The Clerk-Treasurer's books and accounts shall at all times be subject to
examination by the Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 2-106 #2)
CHAPTER 8
TOWN DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Administrative Departments, Officers And Agencies Generally
1-8-2: Bonds
1-8-3: Compensation
1-8-4: Appointment Of Personnel In Emergencies
1-8-5: Specific Town Officials And Personnel
1-8-6: Other Personnel
1-8-7: Books To Successor
1-8-1: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES GENERALLY:
There shall be such administrative departments, agencies and officers as the
Board of Trustees may establish. (2014 Code § 2-108)
1-8-2: BONDS:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer and such officers and employees as are designated by
the Town Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the discharge of their
duties, execute and file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee
surety bonds issued by a surety company authorized to operate in the State
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Town shall pay
the premium on such bonds. (2014 Code § 2-109; amd. 2018 Code)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION:
   A. Elected Officials:
      1. Established:
         a. Mayor: The Mayor shall receive the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per regular meeting attended; fifty dollars ($50.00) per special,
emergency, committee and any and all other required meetings attended.
         b. Trustees: Each Trustee shall receive the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per regular meeting attended; fifty dollars ($50.00) per special,
emergency, committee and other meetings where attendance requirements are
validated by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
         c. Clerk-Treasurer: The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall receive five
hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) per month.
      2. Increase Or Decrease Of Mayor Or Trustee Compensation During Term:
         a. The compensation paid to the Mayor and any Trustee shall not be
increased or diminished for the term of office for which he or she has been
elected prior to the end of his or her elective or appointed term shall not be
eligible to election or reappointment to the same office during such term if
the rate of compensation has been increased.
         b. Any Mayor or Trustee who has resigned or vacated an office prior to
the end of his or her elective or appointed term shall not be eligible to
election or reappointment to the same office during such term if the rate of
compensation has been increased.
   B. Other Officers And Employees:
      1. The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, and may be changed at
any time in the same manner.
      2. Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees. (2014
Code § 2-117; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 1-28-2015; Ord. 2019-06, 11-11-2019)
1-8-4: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES:
The Mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers and
employees as he may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the Town during the existence of the emergency, subject to the
approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a special meeting or regular
meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor. The Board of Trustees may
determine the compensation of such emergency employees by motion or resolution
and may direct the demotion, layoff or removal of such personnel at the
conclusion of such emergency. For the purposes of this section, the term
"emergency" shall be defined to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or
catastrophic event affecting the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the Town. (2014 Code § 2-112)
1-8-5: SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Town Attorney: The Town Attorney is an officer of the Town, appointed
by the Mayor, with the confirmation of the Board of Trustees. The Town Attorney
shall have such duties as are prescribed by the Town Board. (2014 Code § 2-107)
   B.   Code Enforcement Officer: The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Code
Enforcement Officer for the Town. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be charged
with enforcing all Building Codes, Zoning Codes, animal regulations, Fire Codes
and Health Codes within the Town, and shall be empowered to issue citations for
violations into the Municipal Court. (2014 Code § 5-901)
   C.   Health Officer:
      1.   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer. The County
Health Officer or qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a Town Health Officer if so designated by
the Town. (2014 Code § 2-115)
      2.   The Town Health Officer, who may also be the Code Enforcement
Officer, is designated to enforce health ordinances, and anywhere in this Code
where the term "Health Officer" is used shall be construed to mean the Town
Health Officer, as appointed by the Town Board of Trustees, or his duly
designated representative. The Health Officer shall be an individual who is
familiar with the requirements of the health ordinances of the Town as set out
and codified into law and shall have the responsibility for the enforcement
thereof, and any decisions rendered shall be reviewed by the Town Board upon an
appeal from an offender. (2014 Code § 8-501; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Office Management:
      1.   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such
duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office
operations of the Town as the Board of Trustees shall prescribe. The position
may be filled by the person serving as the Town Clerk-Treasurer, if qualified,
or other qualified person on a nonemployee basis as provided by the Board of
Trustees.
      2.   The position will be on an annual contractual basis commencing on
July 1 and ending on June 30. The fee for these services will be paid monthly,
and the annual contractual amount will be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(2014 Code § 2-113)
   E.   Books And Records:
      1.   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such
duties relating to the maintenance of the books and records of the Town as the
Board of Trustees shall prescribe. The position may be filled by the person
serving as the Town Clerk-Treasurer, if qualified, or other qualified person on
a nonemployee basis as provided by the Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 2-114;
amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   The position will be on an annual contractual basis commencing on
July 1 and ending on June 30. The fee for these services shall be paid monthly,
and the annual contractual amount will be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(2014 Code § 2-114)
1-8-6: OTHER PERSONNEL:
The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as it deems
desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or resolution and may
demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in compliance with due
process and other requirements of law. (2014 Code § 2-116)
1-8-7: BOOKS TO SUCCESSOR:
All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the Town in the
charge or possession of any Town officer shall be delivered to his successor
when qualified. (2014 Code § 2-111; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 9
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Social Security
1-9-2: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-9-1: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
Town to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of Federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act,
and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, the Town shall take such
action as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations.
(2014 Code § 2-201)
   B.   Agreement With State: The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Oklahoma
Public Welfare Commission as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees
and officials as provided in subsection A of this section. (2014 Code § 2-201;
amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable State or Federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid to the State
or Federal agency designated by the laws or regulations.
   D.   Contributions: There shall be appropriated from available funds such
amounts at such times as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or
regulations for employer contributions, which shall be paid to the State or
Federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   E.   Records And Reports: The Town shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations.
   F.   Exclusions:
      1.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the Town.
      2.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable State or Federal laws or
regulations. (2014 Code § 2-201)
1-9-2: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Purpose; Town Policy: There is hereby created, for the
purpose of providing pension retirement allowance and other benefits for
firefighters of the Town, a firefighters pension and retirement system. It is
declared to be the official policy of the Town to participate in the pension
system as provided by State law. (2014 Code § 2-211)
   B.   State Regulations Adopted: The firefighters pension and retirement
system as established by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-100.1 et seq., is
hereby adopted by reference.
   C.   Board Of Trustees: The local Board of Trustees of the firefighters
pension and retirement system, servicing the firefighters of the Town, shall be
constituted as provided by State law and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed thereby. (2014 Code § 2-212)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose And Effect
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Jurisdiction
1-10-4: Municipal Judge
1-10-5: Change Of Venue Not Allowed
1-10-6: Chief Of Police And Police Officers
1-10-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-10-8: Town Attorney
1-10-9: Rules Of The Court
1-10-10: Traffic Violations
1-10-11: Schedule Of Fines, Fees And Costs
1-10-12: Prosecutions Procedure
1-10-13: Citations
1-10-14: Summons
1-10-15: Failure To Appear
1-10-16: Warrant Of Arrest
1-10-17: Bail Or Bond
1-10-18: Arraignment
1-10-19: Trials; Judgments
1-10-20: Fines, Fees, Costs And Assessments
1-10-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal Court
of the Town, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by State Statutes. To the extent of conflict
between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of the Town, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (2014 Code
§ 6-102; amd. 2018 Code)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CLERK: The Court Clerk as appointed by the Town, including any deputy or member
of the office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk's Office,
appointed and removed by the Board of Trustees.
COURT: The Municipal Court of the Town.
JUDGE: The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided by the Statutes of this State and this
chapter.
POLICE CHIEF: The official in charge of the administration of Town law
enforcement.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The District Court of Oklahoma Judicial District 12
wherein the government of the Town is situated. (2014 Code § 6-101; amd. 2018
Code)
1-10-3: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the Town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (2014 Code § 6-103)
1-10-4: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications And Restrictions: There shall be one Judge of the court.
A Judge need not be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he must be a
resident of the Town of the age of twenty one (21) years, possessed of good
moral character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice
of law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with
his duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are
connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or
which might become subject of proceedings therein. (2014 Code § 6-201)
   B.   Appointment: Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent
of the Town Board of Trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the Town Board of Trustees at the next to the last regularly
scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take
effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
Town Board of Trustees may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority
vote of all the members thereof. Failure of decision upon a proposed
appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Trustees unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the
proposed appointment. (2014 Code § 6-203)
   C.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the Judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on April 30 in each odd numbered year. (2014 Code § 6-202)
   D.   Alternate Judge: There may be appointed for each Judge of the court an
Alternate Judge possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Judge. He shall sit as Judge of the court in any case if the Judge is absent
from court, unable to act as Judge, or disqualified from acting as Judge in the
case. (2014 Code § 6-203)
   E.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no Judge duly appointed and
qualified available to sit as Judge, a person possessing the qualifications
required by this section for the Judge shall be appointed as Acting Judge. The
Acting Judge shall preside as Acting Judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be
available. (2014 Code § 6-204)
   F.   Compensation: A Judge shall receive such salary as may be established
and shall be paid as established by the Town. (2014 Code § 6-205)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Removal For Cause: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by
the Town Board of Trustees for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and
laws of this State for the removal of public officers.
      2.   Filing Of Petition: Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the Mayor, or twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of the Town.
In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of the
petitioners.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The Town Board of Trustees shall set a date for
hearing the matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the
petition, to be served personally upon the Judge at least ten (10) days before
the hearing. At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to representation by
counsel, to present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him,
and to have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      4.   Procedures: So far as can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma Administrative Procedure Act governing individual proceedings, 75
Oklahoma Statutes sections 309 to 317, and any amendments or additions thereto
in effect at the time of the hearing, shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the Town Board of Trustees in favor of such
removal. (2018 Code)
   H.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   Cause Of Vacancy: A vacancy in the Office of Judge shall occur if
the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office under the
Town ordinances; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review. (2014 Code
§ 6-207)
      2.   Filling Vacancy: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of
Judge, the Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board of Trustees, shall appoint
a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same procedure as an
original appointment is made. (2014 Code § 6-207; amd. 2018 Code)
1-10-5: CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed. The
Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a Judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an Acting Judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (2014
Code § 6-104)
1-10-6: CHIEF OF POLICE AND POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official
title, to the appointed Chief of Police, who shall be the principal officer of
the court. (2014 Code § 6-105)
   B.   Police officers shall attend the session when the business of the
Municipal Court requires their attendance. (2018 Code)
1-10-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Designation; Duties: The Town Clerk-Treasurer or a Deputy designated by
him/her shall be the Clerk of the Court. The Clerk shall:
      1.   Assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, process and other papers;
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      3.   Enter all pleadings, process and proceedings in the dockets of the
court;
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the Judge shall direct;
      5.   Receive any receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court and as may be established by the court or the Town
Board of Trustees; and
      6.   Pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer all monies so received by him/her,
except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by
him for special purposes. All monies paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
placed in the General Fund of the Town, or in such other fund as the Board of
Trustees may direct. (2014 Code § 6-106)
   B.   Bond: The Clerk of the Court shall give bond in such sum as set by the
Board of Trustees, in the form provided by State law. When executed, the bond
shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval. When approved, it
shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and retained in the Municipal archives.
(2014 Code § 6-108)
1-10-8: TOWN ATTORNEY:
The Town Attorney or his duly designated assistant may be the Prosecuting
Officer of the court. He may prosecute, in his discretion, all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the Town. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other courts of the State, and to represent the Town in
all proceedings arising out of matters in the court. (2014 Code § 6-107)
1-10-9: RULES OF THE COURT:
The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the State and with
the ordinances of the Town, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court. (2014 Code § 6-109)
1-10-10: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Traffic Violations Bureau:
      1.   Bureau Created: A Traffic Violations Bureau is established as a
division of the Office of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by the
Clerk or by subordinates designated for that purpose.
      2.   Fines: Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic
ordinances of the Town, other than a driver license offense, or an offense
punishable by more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), may elect to pay a fine
in the violations bureau according to a schedule of fines prescribed from time
to time by the Town Board of Trustees. The payment shall constitute a final
determination of the cause against the defendant.
      3.   Rules: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
subsection A. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
subsection A fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of
this chapter. (2014 Code § 6-110)
   B.   Traffic Bail Bonds:
      1.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this State or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a State traffic law
or Municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
         a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this State, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a part of the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
         b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
         c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by the treating physician; and
         d.   The violation does not constitute:
            (1)   A felony;
            (2)   Negligent homicide;
            (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by the treating physician;
            (4)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
            (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver license, or while the driving privilege and driver license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
            (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
            (7)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections B1d(1) through B1d(6) of this section;
            (8)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
            (9)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
      2.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in subsection B1 of this section, then the arresting
officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver license, driver license number, issuing state, and
expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the date and time on the citation on which, or before
which, the arrested person promises to contact, pay or appear at the court, as
applicable to the court; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided in the citation.
      3.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and driver license in
this State, or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
      4.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driving
privilege and driver license, shall be as required in State law, 22 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
      5.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the Court Clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided in this subsection B5, such plea shall
be accepted by the court, and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
      6.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection B5 of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the Municipal or District Court Clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the State Department of Public Safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      7.   The Court Clerk shall request the State Department of Public Safety
to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver license to
operate a motor vehicle in this State, or notify the defendant's home state and
request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver license in
accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact. The notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the State Department of
Public Safety. The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided in this subsection B7 if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided in this subsection or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
      8.   The Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving
privilege and driver license suspension submitted to the State Department of
Public Safety pursuant to the provisions of this subsection. When the court or
Court Clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles
the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes
the case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or
Court Clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the State Department of Public
Safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the State Department of Public Safety.
Provided, however, the court or Court Clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided in this subsection B8 shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the Court Clerk, the State or any political
subdivision thereof, or any State department or agency or any employee thereof,
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (2014 Code § 6-114; amd. 2018 Code)
1-10-11: SCHEDULE OF FINES, FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   The Town Board of Trustees may establish a minimum fine schedule. The
minimum fine schedule, when established, shall provide for a minimum amount
which a person may pay upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the listed
offenses. The minimum fine schedule shall include fine, court costs and any
assessments set by State law within the specified amount. Upon plea of guilty
or nolo contendere and payment of the required minimum fine prior to the date
scheduled for court appearance, no further court appearance shall be required.
The Judge may authorize the Court Clerk to accept pleas of guilty and nolo
contendere where the amount of the minimum fine is paid at the time of such
plea and prior to the scheduled court appearance date. (2014 Code § 6-111)
   B.   There is hereby created a schedule of fees for services and costs of
prosecution as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 28-125 and 28-127,
and 28 Oklahoma Statutes section 31, for the Municipal Court. The schedule of
fees shall be established by the Board of Trustees and maintained and updated
by the Court Clerk. (2018 Code)
1-10-12: PROSECUTIONS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Style Of Prosecutions: All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of
the Town shall be styled "The Town of Locust Grove, Oklahoma vs. (naming
defendant or defendants)". (2014 Code § 6-112)
   B.   Written Complaint: Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall
be initiated by the filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by
the person making the complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense
charged. Complaints shall be verified before a Judge, the Court Clerk, a Deputy
Court Clerk, or a police officer. No warrant for arrest shall be issued until
approved by the Judge of the Municipal Court. (2014 Code § 6-112; amd. 2018
Code)
   C.   Town Options: There is no duty on the part of the Town or any of its
officers or employees to formally prosecute actions in the court. In the
absence of a Prosecuting Officer, the Judge shall proceed with the case and
hear evidence and examine witnesses in such manner as he may deem necessary to
effect justice.
   D.   Court Cost Fee: Any person, except a police officer or other employee
of the Town, filing a criminal offense complaint in the Municipal Court shall
deposit with the Clerk of the Court, unless waived by order of the court, the
court cost fee as provided in this chapter. The court costs so deposited by
such a complainant shall be refunded to the complainant or person depositing
same upon conviction or acquittal of the defendant. The court costs shall not
be refunded if the charges are dismissed at the request of the complainant who
made the deposit because the complainant failed or refused to appear in court
to testify or aid in the prosecution of the charge filed by such complainant.
   E.   Defects In Complaint: All defects in the form or substance apparent on
the face of a complaint charging a violation of an ordinance of the Town, and
being grounds for motion or demur, may only be raised by an accused in writing
and prior to trial.
   F.   Amendment Of Complaint: A complaint may be amended in matter of
substance or form at any time before the defendant pleads, without leave, and
may be amended after plea or order of the court where the same can be done
without material prejudice to the rights of the defendant. No amendment shall
cause any delay of the trial, unless good cause is shown by affidavit. (2014
Code § 6-112)
1-10-13: CITATIONS:
   A.   Residents Of Town: If a resident of the Town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other
provisions of this chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
nontraffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if
released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the
person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person
fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest and his appearance shall be compelled. If the arrested resident is not
released by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in this subsection,
he shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be
released on personal recognizance.
   B.   Nonresidents Of Town: If a nonresident of the Town is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsection
1-10-10B of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense is a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in this section, with such variation as the circumstances require,
the operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to
the citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A of
this section. (2014 Code § 6-113)
1-10-14: SUMMONS:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of an ordinance, the Judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally or by certified mail. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (2014 Code § 6-115)
1-10-15: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Summons Or Traffic Citation: Any person who has been duly served with a
summons or traffic citation and who has signed a written promise to appear in
court as directed in the summons or the citation or as subsequently directed by
the court and who fails to appear pursuant to his written promise or as
directed by the court shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the Town
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2014 Code § 6-116; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Bond:
      1.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial
or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his presence in court or before
the Judge may be lawfully required or ordered, the Judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. The Judge may also order a bench warrant to be issued for the
defendant as provided in this chapter. (2014 Code § 6-116)
      2.   The Judge, without advancing court costs, may also cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the County, where it shall
be entered upon the judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of
a District Court judgment. At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the
District Court judgment docket, the District Court Clerk shall proceed in
accordance with the provisions of 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1108 and 59
Oklahoma Statutes sections 1301 through 1340, and a surety shall have all
remedies available under 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 1108 and 59 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1301 through 1340. (2014 Code § 6-116; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
(2014 Code § 6-116)
   C.   Complainants And Witnesses: No person, having signed a complaint in the
Municipal Court of the Town alleging the violation of an ordinance or any other
person in response to an order of the court, shall fail, refuse or neglect to
appear for the purpose of testifying as a witness at the trial of the case,
after having been notified of the time, date and place at which the case is set
for trial. (2014 Code § 6-117)
1-10-16: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form: Except as otherwise provided by Town ordinance, upon the filing
of a complaint approved by endorsement by the Town Attorney or by the Judge,
there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the following form:
(2014 Code § 6-118)
The Town of Locust Grove, Oklahoma to the police chief of the Town of Locust
Grove, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath this day has been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in general terms) has been committed and
accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to
arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring (insert him, her or them,
as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
Witness my hand this       day of              2    
                                             
Judge of the Municipal Court
of Locust Grove, Oklahoma
(2014 Code § 6-118; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Police To Serve Warrant: It is the duty of the Police Chief personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the Town police force or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly
as possible. (2014 Code § 6-118)
1-10-17: BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Bail: Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to
citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment,
the defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the Judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and
release of the defendant. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when the Judge is not available, the rules shall
authorize the Chief of Police, or his designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the bond nor
more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense
charged. The Judge or Police Chief is authorized, subject to conditions as may
be prescribed by the Judge, to release a resident of the Town on personal
recognizance.
   B.   Bail Bond Schedule: The Town's bail bond schedule setting forth
specific offenses and bail bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. A
copy of said schedule is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
public use and inspection. (2014 Code § 6-119; amd. 2018 Code)
1-10-18: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The Judge, or the Town Attorney, shall read the complaint to the defendant,
inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if
available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the court may
proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date. (2014 Code
§ 6-120)
1-10-19: TRIALS; JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (2014 Code § 6-121)
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial of his case in court. (2014 Code § 6-122)
   C.   Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, by
the statutes relating to Municipal Courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the
State Supreme Court, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the
District Courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective.
(2014 Code § 6-123; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Right To Trial By Jury; Waiver:
      1.   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine
of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment, or by both
fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury unless waived by the defendant.
If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be by the court. (2014 Code § 6-124;
amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or
waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in
the case.
      3.   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed
by the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is
set. An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial; but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury. (2014 Code § 6-124)
   E.   Judgments:
      1.   Judgment Required; Types: At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered without undue delay by the Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in
his docket:
         a.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once;
         b.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly; and
         c.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he
be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied, as provided in subsection
1-10-20B of this chapter. (2014 Code § 6-125)
      2.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be
delivered to the Chief of Police, the Sheriff of the County, or other
appropriate officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the
sentence. (2014 Code § 6-126)
      3.   Suspension Or Deferment Of Judgment:
         a.   The Judge of the court in imposing a judgment and sentence, at
his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the
imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize the person to
be released upon his own recognizance for a period not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the Judge may
specify. The Judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer further
proceedings, after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before passing a
judgment of guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on probation for
a period not to exceed six (6) months, under such terms and conditions as
prescribed by the court, which may include, but not be limited to, work on the
streets, parks, or other Town owned or maintained projects, with proper
supervision.
         b.   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the
defendant has been previously convicted of a felony.
         c.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have
been violated, the Municipal Judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause
a warrant to be issued for the defendant.
         d.   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being
entered, the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to
which he is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full fine
for which he was originally sentenced as may be directed by the Judge.
         e.   The Judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence
for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the
sentence. At the expiration of such period, the Judge may allow the Town
Attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. (2014 Code § 6-127)
         f.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. The court may
make payment of the fee a condition of granting or continuing the imposition of
a sentence, if the defendant is able to pay. (2014 Code § 6-127; amd. 2018
Code)
         g.   The court may also require restitution, and in the event there
was damage done to public or private property during the commission of the
offense, the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged
property as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court.
(2014 Code § 6-127)
1-10-20: FINES, FEES, COSTS AND ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Fines, Fees And Costs:
      1.   Court Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the
Court shall tax the cost to the defendant in the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00)
or the maximum sum permitted by State law, whichever is greater, plus
assessments, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, and any jail
charges, all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that may
be imposed.
      2.   Administrative Fee: In any case where a sentence is imposed, the
Municipal Court may impose, in addition to the court cost set out in subsection
A1 of this section, a maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) as an
administrative fee.
      3.   Deferral Fee:
         a.   In any case where a deferred sentence is imposed, the court shall
impose a deferral fee in lieu of a fine and costs. Such deferral fee shall not
exceed the maximum fine and costs for the same offense as set forth in the
Oklahoma Statutes. The maximum deferral fee in lieu of a fine for traffic
related offenses relating to speeding or parking shall not exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00). The maximum deferral fee in lieu of a fine for alcohol
related or drug related offenses shall not exceed eight hundred dollars
($800.00). For all other offenses, the maximum deferral fee in lieu of a fine
shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   The court shall remit fifty dollars ($50.00) of each alcohol fine
or deferral fee to a fund of the Town that shall be used to defray costs for
enforcement of laws relating to juvenile access to alcohol, other laws relating
to alcohol and other intoxicating substances, and traffic related offenses
involving alcohol or other intoxicating substances.
      4.   Incarceration Costs:
         a.   Upon conviction or receiving a continued sentence, a person who
was actually received into custody at a jail facility utilized by the Town for
the purposes of housing prisoners for alleged or adjudicated violations of Town
ordinances shall pay the costs of incarceration. The court shall order the
defendant to reimburse the costs of incarceration upon conviction or upon entry
of a continued sentence unless the defendant is a person with a "mental
illness" as defined by 43A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103. Costs of
incarceration include booking, receiving and processing out, housing, food,
clothing, medical care, dental care and psychiatric services.
         b.   The costs of incarceration shall be determined by the Municipal
Court Judge at an evidentiary hearing with the Police Chief which determines
the average daily costs of incarceration in the particular jail. The Municipal
Judge shall issue an administrative order promulgating the information
regarding the costs of incarceration at the particular jail. The administrative
order shall be made readily available in the Municipal Court Clerk's Office and
the particular jail and shall be updated annually.
         c.   The Municipal Court may then take judicial notice of this
information in assessing incarceration costs in subsequent cases.
      5.   Collection Fee: A collection fee of thirty five percent (35%) of
court penalties, cost fines, and fees in cases in which the accused has failed
to appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the
court shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency
for collection. (2018 Code)
   B.   Enforcement Of Fines And Costs:
      1.   Imprisonment: If a defendant who is financially able refuses or
neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by
imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day. (2014 Code § 6-129; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Certified To District Court: If the defendant is without means to
pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to
be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the District Court
where it shall be entered upon the District Court docket and shall have the
full force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same
remedies shall be available for the enforcement as are available to any other
judgment creditor. (2014 Code § 6-129)
      3.   Prisoners To Work:
         a.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty
may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on community projects, the
public streets, avenues or ways, public buildings, or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner or defendant shall be paid
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00). (2014 Code § 6-129; amd. 2018 Code)
         b.   The Town shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
appropriate officer shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief
of Police shall make provision therefor. (2014 Code § 6-129)
   C.   Acts Punishable By Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different sections of this Code,
the Town Attorney may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense. (2014 Code
§ 6-130)
   D.   Contempt Of Court: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by
the court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by
him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the District Courts of this
State. (2014 Code § 6-131)
   E.   Penalty Assessments:
      1.   Any person: a) convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) or more or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing
violations; or b) forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense under item
a of this subsection shall pay a sum as set by State law as a separate penalty
assessment for law enforcement training, and as a separate fingerprinting fee,
which shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and
penalties and costs otherwise provided for such offense. The court shall
provide for separate bail for the assessments; however, a defendant admitted to
bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the assessment in
the undertaking.
      2.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the monies for payment as required by State law. (2014
Code § 6-132)
      3.   At the end of every quarter, the Town shall deposit with the
Oklahoma State Treasury the funds deposited in the law enforcement training
funds, the AFIS (Automated Fingerprinting Identification) Fund and the forensic
science improvement fee as required by law. The Court Clerk shall also furnish
to the State Treasury reports required on the funds collected and penalty
assessments imposed each quarter. (2014 Code § 6-132; amd. 2018 Code)
      4.   For the purpose of this subsection E, "conviction" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (2014 Code §
6-132)
   F.   Failure To Pay Fines:
      1.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
      2.   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this Code shall
constitute a separate offense against the Town, subject to a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this title.
      3.   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected by
committing the defendant to the County Jail, where he shall remain until his
fine and any costs assessed against him are discharged, either by payment or by
confinement in jail, or by working in accordance with other provisions of this
section or State law. (2014 Code § 6-133)
      4.   Failure to pay pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or
otherwise, must be paid by cash, money order, or cashiers check. No personal
checks, debit or credit card, or giving bond will be accepted. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 11
TOWN RECORDS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Custodians Of Records
1-11-2: Requests For Records
1-11-3: Procedures
1-11-4: Fees
1-11-1: CUSTODIANS OF RECORDS:
   A.   Official Custodians: The following Town officials are hereby appointed
as official custodians for purposes of the Oklahoma Open Records Act and are
charged with responsibility for compliance with that Act with respect to the
following listed public records:
      1.   Town Clerk-Treasurer: All public records kept and maintained in the
Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office and all other public records not provided for
elsewhere in this chapter;
      2.   Chief Of Police: All public records not on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and kept and maintained in the Town Police Department;
      3.   Fire Chief: All public records not on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and kept and maintained in the Town Fire Department;
      4.   Town Attorney: All public records not on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and kept and maintained in the Town Attorney's Office; and
      5.   Court Clerk: All public records not on file in the Office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and kept maintained in the Municipal Court. (2014 Code §
2-301; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Additional Records Custodians:
      1.   Designation: Each of the official custodians appointed in subsection
A of this section is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or
employees to serve as records custodians. The records custodians shall have
such duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma Open Records Act.
      2.   Register Kept: Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another
person as a records custodian, he shall notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer of such
designation, and the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a register of all such
designations. (2014 Code § 2-302)
   C.   Duties Of Custodians: All Town officials and employees appointed or
designated under this chapter shall protect public records from damage and
disorganization; prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the
Town; provide assistance and information upon request; ensure efficient and
timely action and response to all applications for inspection of public
records; and carry out the procedures adopted by the Town for inspecting and
copying open public records. (2014 Code § 2-303)
1-11-2: REQUESTS FOR RECORDS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to or copies of a public
record in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma Open Records Act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Whenever any Town official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to or copy
of a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his possession
and which he has not been given responsibility to keep and maintain, shall so
advise the person requesting the record. The person making the request shall be
informed as to which custodian the request should be addressed, if such is
known by the custodian receiving the request. (2014 Code § 2-304)
1-11-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures Regarding Both Inspection And Copying Of Open Public
Records: The following procedures regarding both inspection and copying of open
public records are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each official
custodian and records custodian: (2014 Code § 2-305; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma Open Records Act, records custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records;
      2.   Records custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied;
      3.   Records custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record(s) at the earliest possible time;
      4.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by or under the supervision of the records custodian responsible for
such records;
      5.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored;
except, that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution;
      6.   All records inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record(s). The records custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record(s);
      7.   Any fees for records inspection or for copies are due at the time
the records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the
records custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be
made. Fees are to be paid to the records custodian or Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      8.   The records custodian or Town Clerk-Treasurer shall demand full or
partial prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the
amount set out in section
1-11-4 of this chapter;
      9.   No records search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the Town who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties;
      10.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours;
      11.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted; and
      12.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the records
custodian. (2014 Code § 2-305)
   B.   Procedures Regarding Inspection Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures regarding inspection of open public records are hereby adopted and
shall be applied by every official custodian and records custodian: (2014 Code
§ 2-306; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Records custodians shall handle all inspection requests in
accordance with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to
assist persons requesting inspection of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
records custodian and presented to the records custodian;
      3.   If the request is made at a time that interferes with the ability of
the department to fulfill its legal functions, then an appointment will be made
to fulfill the request;
      4.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the
record sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient
information to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such
identification; and
      5.   Whenever there is a question as to whether or not a request is
legally considered open, then the request will be forwarded by fax to the Town
Attorney for determination. (2014 Code § 2-306)
   C.   Procedures Regarding Copies Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures apply regarding copies of open public records: (2014 Code § 2-307;
amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Records custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
records custodian;
      3.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it
is the judgment of the records custodian that any available means of
mechanically reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such
records; and
      4.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record(s)
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the records
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (2014 Code § 2-307)
1-11-4: FEES:
   A.   Fees Established:
      1.   Inspection: Where a request has been made for the inspection of an
open public record, no fee shall be charged. (2014 Code § 2-308)
      2.   Copies:
         a.   A fee per page as established in the general schedule of fees by
the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution shall be charged for photocopying
an open public record, such fee to cover the cost of labor, materials and
equipment. Said fee shall not exceed the statutory fees set out in 51 Oklahoma
Statutes section 24A.3. (2014 Code § 2-308; amd. 2018 Code)
         b.   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by
photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall
be charged the actual cost to the Town, including the cost of labor, materials
and equipment.
      3.   Search: A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the
record solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to
the Town of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and
equipment.
   B.   Prepayment Of Fees: A records custodian may demand prepayment of a fee
whenever the estimated amount exceeds fifteen dollars ($15.00). The prepayment
amount shall be an estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or
searching for the record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount
shall be settled prior to producing the requested record or delivering the copy
or mechanical reproduction of the record. (2014 Code § 2-308)
CHAPTER 12
TOWN ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Election Of Officers
1-12-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-302, the Town hereby declares that
it shall not be governed by the Oklahoma Town Meeting Act for electing its
officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions. The Town shall elect
its officers and decide initiative and referendum questions through elections
conducted by the County Election Board pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
16-101 et seq. (2014 Code § 2-105)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created; Membership; Terms; Vacancies; Removals
2-1-2: Organization
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Serve As Zoning Commission
2-1-5: Staff
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; VACANCIES; REMOVALS:
A Town Planning Commission may be created for the Town. It shall consist of
five (5) appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the Town, and
the Mayor and the Town Engineer (if any) as ex officio members. The appointive
members shall be nominated by the Mayor and appointed by the Board of Trustees
and shall serve for terms of three (3) years. Of the original appointive
members, one shall serve for a term of one year; two (2) shall serve for a term
of two (2) years; and two (2) shall serve for a term of three (3) years.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The members shall serve
without compensation. The Board of Trustees may remove members of the
commission for cause and may carry out the functions of the commission until a
commission is appointed. (2014 Code § 12-101)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chair, a Vice
Chair, and Secretary, who shall serve until June 1, after their election, with
terms of one year, expiring on June 1 thereafter. The Secretary need not be a
member of the commission.
   B.   Meetings: The commission shall determine the time and place of its
regular meetings, and the Chair or any three (3) members may call special
meetings of the commission. (2014 Code § 12-102)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
In general, the Town Planning Commission shall have such powers and duties
prescribed therefor to promote Municipal planning, and to carry out the
purposes of Municipal planning as allowed by State law and all other powers and
duties now or hereafter prescribed therefor by any other provisions of
ordinance or law empowering the commission to act. (2014 Code § 12-103; amd.
2018 Code)
2-1-4: SERVE AS ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   The Town Planning Commission is hereby appointed the Zoning Commission
of the Town, and the Town Planning Commission shall have the powers of a Zoning
Commission as provided by State law. Whether exercising the powers of a
Planning Commission or the powers of a Zoning Commission, it shall be legally
one board known as the Town Planning Commission.
   B.   In exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the Town Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a Zoning Commission by State law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable State law to such authorities. (2014
Code § 12-104)
2-1-5: STAFF:
The Planning Commission may employ engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other help
deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. Their
salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Board and shall be paid out of
the Town Treasury as other salaries and compensation are paid. The necessary
legal expenses shall be paid out of the Town Treasury as other legal expenses
of the Town government are paid. (2014 Code § 12-102)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Membership; Terms; Removals; Compensation
2-2-2: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; REMOVALS; COMPENSATION:
A Board of Adjustment consisting of five (5) members is hereby created, with
members serving staggered three (3) year terms, removable for cause by the Town
Board of Trustees. All members shall serve without compensation. (2014 Code §
12-110; amd. 2018 Code)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board shall have such powers and duties as prescribed by State law. (2014
Code § 12-110)
TITLE 3
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Deposit Of Funds
3-1-2: Investment Of Funds
3-1-3: Disposition Of Surplus And Obsolete Materials
3-1-1: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Depositories Designated: All banks and financial institutions as are
designated by the Town Board of Trustees shall be designated as depositories
for the funds of the Town. (2014 Code § 7-102)
   B.   Clerk-Treasurer Duties: The Town Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designated
representative shall deposit daily all public funds received thereby in these
banks. Funds may be transferred from one depository to another upon direction
of the Clerk- Treasurer. (2014 Code § 7-102; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Securing Deposits: The deposits of the Town shall be secured as
provided in the Security for Local Public Deposits Act. (2014 Code § 7-103;
amd. 2018 Code)
3-1-2: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other person authorized to invest public monies
shall invest the same in those investments authorized by the Town Board of
Trustees or authorized by State law in a manner authorized by either or both
such Board of Trustees and statutes. (2014 Code § 7-101)
3-1-3: DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS AND OBSOLETE MATERIALS:
   A.   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be sold until the procedures
outlined in this section have been followed.
   B.   The Town purchasing authority may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in a single transaction;
or
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the Town for the same; or
      3.   Where the Board of Trustees has authorized the sale of surplus
property at public auction under such terms, conditions and notice as the Board
of Trustees may prescribe or as the Town purchasing authority deems
appropriate. (2014 Code § 7-106)
   C.   Donations to other governmental agencies of surplus property with a
value exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) must be approved by a
resolution of the Board of Trustees. Donations to other governmental agencies
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less shall be approved by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. (2018 Code)
   D.   Definitions: The following terms are defined as set forth for use in
this Article:
NONESSENTIAL TOWN PERSONAL PROPERTY: All property held in the name of the town
other than real property, firearms or concealed weapons as defined in O.S.
Title 21.
SCRAP: Property which, because of its worn, damaged, deteriorated, incomplete,
disassembled or in poor condition or specialized nature has no reasonable
prospect of sale or use as designed. OAC 260:105-1-2.
SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items, commodities, materials, supplies or equipment
owned by the town which is determined by the town to be excess, obsolete,
antiquated, unused, scrap or not required to meet the needs or responsibilities
of the town, as defined in 74 O.S. 62.2.
   E.   Identification Of Surplus Property: Periodically, as is necessary for
the efficient administration of the town or upon request of the Board, the
department heads of the town shall compose lists of town owned property under
the control of their respective departments which they deem to be surplus
property. Such lists shall be submitted to the Board and include:
      1.   Description of the item(s).
      2.   Number/quantity of each item(s).
      3.   Model number, serial number, VIN number or other identifying numbers
as applicable to each item.
      4.   A statement by the department head as to each item indicating
whether it is sought to be declared surplus based on its status as either:
         a.   Excess;
         b.   Obsolete;
         c.   Antiquated;
         d.   Unused;
         e.   Not needed; or
         f.   Scrap.
      5.   A concise written explanation concerning each item setting forth the
factual basis describing the reason the item is believed by the department head
to be excess, obsolete, antiquated, unused, not needed, or scrap.
      6.   A written statement as to each item indicating the opinion and
providing a short explanation of the basis of the opinion of the department
head as to whether the property can be sold for a value exceeding the probable
cost of selling the item. The department head's written opinion and explanation
must include, set forth and be supported by a reasonable inquiry made by the
department head of:
         a.   The possible manner(s) of sale by which the property might be
sold.
         b.   The probable costs(s) associated with the sale of the property.
         c.   The probable range of sale prices the property may receive in a
sale.
   F.   Presentation Of Lists To The Board Of Trustees: Lists of surplus
property as prescribed in subsection E of this section shall be presented to
the Board by Resolution for consideration and possible action to declare the
property "surplus" and determine the method of disposal of the "surplus
property."
   G.   Board Of Trustees Action: The Board of Trustees, when presented with
the list, shall consider the information concerning the property contained in
the list and in their judgment, make a formal declaration of the property's
status as surplus. The Board may, in its discretion, defer its decision as to
all or some part of the property set forth on the list to a future date and may
require further inquiry and investigation be made of the property's status and/
or appropriate method(s) of disposal and reporting thereof to the Board. The
Board shall, at the time it declares property to be surplus, determine and
prescribe the method of disposal of the property to be made.
   H.   Methods Of Disposal Of Surplus Property: The sale or disposal of town
surplus personal property shall be authorized by Resolution (sample attached as
Exhibit "A" to this Ord. 2022-02).
      1.   General Requirements For Sale Or Donation Of Surplus Property:
         a.   The Board shall authorize the sale of property that is in the
custody of the town departments and owned by the town when said property is no
longer of public use to the town.
         b.   The Board may declare personal property that is of no current or
future public use to the town with an individual item value of less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) as scrap. Personal property declared scrap may be
disposed of as prescribed by the Board or sold by private sale at prices
established by current market conditions.
         c.   If any surplus property purchased with grant funds, the Town
Clerk shall consult with the granting agency to ensure sale or disposal of the
property is consistent with any grant requirements or restrictions prior to
providing certification to the Board.
         d.   The Board also may authorize a donation of surplus property when
the cost of disposition of the property is equal to or exceeds the current fair
market value of the property to a specific bona fide charitable organization
which is tax exempt pursuant to Internal Revenue Code 501(c)(3).
      2.   The methods of disposal are:
         a.   Sealed Bid: The Board of Trustees may determine that the property
should be sold by sealed bid.
            1)   If the Board determined the property should be sold by sealed
bid, the Board shall additionally:
               a)   Specify a date and time certain as a deadline for bids to
be received by the town; and
               b)   Specify a date and time certain at which the bids will be
opened and sale awarded.
            2)   If no bids are received by the approved method, the Town Clerk
is authorized to dispose of said nonessential surplus town personal property by
the most expeditious manner which may include sale to a salvage property dealer
as scrap or disposal.
            3)   The Town Clerk shall be the designated agent for purposes of
receiving and holding such sealed bids and shall, at the date of sale, open the
bids and determine the successful bidders as those persons offering the highest
price.
         b.   Public Auction: The Board may determine the property should be
sold by public auction. In such event, the Board of Trustees also shall
determine whether the public auction shall be held as a tangible event at a
public location or an electronic event or listing of the property on an
internet sales site which is made available to the public via the internet.
            1)   If the Board determines that the auction shall be held as a
tangible event at a public location, then it shall additionally specify:
               a)   The date and time of the auction; and
               b)   The place of the auction.
            2)   If the Board determines the auction shall be held as an
electronic event or listing of the property on an internet sales site, then it
shall additionally specify:
               a)   The date by which the property shall be listed;
               b)   The site upon which the property shall be listed; and
               c)   The date by which the listing shall be removed and buyer
determined.
         c.   Scrap: If the Board determines that said property should be sold
as scrap, the Town Clerk may cause three (3) quotes to be obtained prior to the
determination of the Board that the property be sold as scrap which may be
presented contemporaneously to the Board upon the same agenda for approval of
sale following the Board's declaration that the property be sold as scrap. In
the discretion of the Board, it may make such other and further requirements of
sale as deemed by it to be in the best interest of the town to facilitate a
sale at market prices, inclusive of the other methods of disposal as prescribed
by this section.
         d.   Trade-in: The Board may determine it is in the best interest of
the town to dispose of property by "trade-in" for replacement property at such
values and prices consistent with market rates as determined by reference to
the "Blue Book" or other similar published reference book. The following
information shall be submitted to the Board for approval (OAC 530:65-5-2):
            1)   Description of item to be purchased;
            2)   Cost of the new item;
            3)   Value to be allowed for the town property; and
            4)   Name and address of vendor offering the replacement property.
         e.   Disposal By Other Means: Property may be disposed of by other
specified means which are deemed by the Board to be in the best interest of the
town upon specified grounds demonstrating the "best interest." Disposal may
include disposal of the property as refuse where the costs associated with
selling the property would be reasonably likely to exceed the value to be
received in a sale of the property.
         f.   Firearms or concealed weapons as defined by the Oklahoma
Statutes, said sale shall be only to a federally licensed firearms dealer
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923.
         g.   Real property, if allowed, shall be by sealed bid or public
auction.
   I.   Sales To Town Employees: Sales of property to employees of the town is
prohibited unless the property is sold by sealed bid or public auction
inclusive of both tangible events at a public location or an electronic event
or listing of the property on an internet sales site which is made available to
the public via internet.
   J.   Lump Sum Bid: In the event bids are received stating a single, lump sum
price be paid for the entire list or a portion thereof, the Town Clerk shall
total the highest bids submitted on the individual items of property which are
the subject of the lump sum bid and if the lump sum bid is greater than the
aggregate of the highest bids submitted on an individual basis, shall declare
the lump sum bid the successful bidder. If the lump sum bid is less than the
aggregate of the highest bids submitted on an individual basis, the property
shall be sold to the individual bidders.
   K.   Notification To Successful Bidder: Persons determined to be the
successful bidders shall be notified by the Town Clerk within seven (7) days by
mail that they have been determined to be the successful bidder and they have
five (5) days in which to collect the property. If such property is not
collected by the bidder within the five (5) day period, that bid will be
discarded, and the next highest bidder will be determined to be the successful
bidder.
   L.   Notice Of Sale:
      1.   In the event of a sale by public auction as a tangible event at a
public location or by sealed bid, notice of sale of town surplus or obsolete
property shall be by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in or near the town, at least ten (10) days but not more than twenty (20) days
prior to the date of sale. The notice shall include:
         a.   Type Of Sale: Whether the sale is to be by sealed bid or by
public auction; and
         b.   List Of items: A list of the items to be sold which sufficiently
discloses the type of property to be sold.
      2.   In the event of a sale by public auction as a tangible event at a
public location, the notice shall additionally provide the location, time and
date of the sale.
      3.   In the event of a sale by sealed bid, the notice shall additionally
provide:
         a.   Name and address of Town Clerk for receiving bids;
         b.   Deadline for receiving bids;
         c.   Location of the property to be sold and the days and times at
which the property may be viewed by persons interested in bidding for its
purchase; and
         d.   A statement to bidders requiring the bids received to contain the
name, address and telephone number of person submitting the bid. (Ord. 2022-02,
4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definition Of Contractual Services
3-2-2: Purchasing Authority
3-2-3: Purchasing Procedures
3-2-1: DEFINITION OF CONTRACTUAL SERVICES:
The term "contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, means
services performed for the Town by persons not in the employment of the Town,
and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in
connection with such services under express or implied contract. Contractual
services includes travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
internet service; utilities; rents; repairs, alterations, and maintenance of
buildings, equipment, streets, and bridges, and other physical facilities of
the Town; and other services performed for the Town by persons not in the
employment of the Town. (2014 Code § 7-105; amd. 2018 Code)
3-2-2: PURCHASING AUTHORITY:
   A.   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services for the Town shall be made by the Town Board of Trustees or pursuant
to authorizations granted thereby.
   B.   The Town purchasing authority shall contract for and purchase all
supplies, material and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of
the Town. The purchasing authority may also transfer to or between offices,
departments and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and
equipment. (2014 Code § 7-104)
3-2-3: PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Prior Approval By Town Board And Bidding Required:
      1.   Before a contract shall be entered into, or any such purchase made
involving the expenditure of more than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), or any sale made of property, the value of which is more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), such contract or sale shall: (2014 Code § 7-104;
amd. 2018 Code)
         a.   Be approved by the Town Board of Trustees;
         b.   Be submitted for competitive bidding, except as provided in this
section;
         c.   Have written notice given by the Town purchasing authority for
sealed bids for the furnishing of such supplies, materials or equipment where
competitive bidding is required hereunder.
      2.   The notice required in this subsection A shall state the time and
place for filing the bids, shall contain an ample description of the supplies,
materials and equipment to be purchased or sold, the time and place the bids
will be opened, and that all bids may be rejected. The bids shall be in writing
and sealed and filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to the time they are
to be opened. The bids may be rejected or the Town may re-advertise for bids
or, after due consideration thereof, may award a contract to purchase such
supplies, material or equipment from the lowest and best responsible bidder.
However, the Town purchasing authority may, at his option, purchase any such
materials, supplies and equipment through central purchasing of the State.
(2014 Code § 7-104)
   B.   Bidding Not Required: The following may be purchased without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding: (2014 Code § 7-105)
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services where the
cost does not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in a single
transaction; (2014 Code § 7-105; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer or a sole source vendor, or which have a
uniform price wherever bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including war surplus, or purchased at auction at a price
deemed below that obtainable elsewhere;
      4.   Contractual services (gas, electricity, telephone service, and the
like) purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined by the
State Corporation Commission or other government authority;
      5.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State purchasing
agency or any other State agency authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the State (whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise);
      6.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, medical and legal services; or (2014 Code § 7-105)
      7.   When an emergency is declared by the appropriate agency to exist.
(2014 Code § 7-105; amd. 2018 Code)
      8.   If the Board of Trustees finds, by majority vote of its members,
that an emergency exists within the meaning of subsection B7 of this section
that requires an outlay of Town funds in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), the agent shall secure by the procedures set forth in this
chapter, at the lowest obtainable price, any necessary supplies or contractual
services.
      9.   In the case of an actual emergency which occurs outside of regular
office hours and which requires the purchase of commodities or contractual
services, the Department Manager of any department should, if possible, consult
with the Clerk- Treasurer prior to any action. However, if such consultation is
not practicable, the Department Manager may proceed to purchase directly any
commodities or contractual services if an immediate procurement is essential to
prevent delays in the work of the using department which may vitally affect the
life, health or convenience of the citizens. The department shall exercise
great care to ensure that the supplies or contractual services are procured at
a reasonable cost. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TOWN TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Short Title; Statute Authority
3-3A-2: Definitions
3-3A-3: Tax Imposed; Rate; Purpose
3-3A-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-3A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-3A-7: Tax Due Date
3-3A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-3A-9: Collection By Vendors
3-3A-10: Returns, Remittances; Discounts
3-3A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3A-12: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns; Penalties
3-3A-13: Tax Constitutes Debt; Enforcement Of Payment
3-3A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-3A-15: Records Confidential
3-3A-16: Amendments
3-3A-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3A-1: SHORT TITLE; STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN OF LOCUST GROVE SALES
TAX ORDINANCE. Authorization for tax for purposes of Municipal government is 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 2701. (2014 Code § 7-201; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article.
   B.   The term "tax collector", as used herein, shall mean the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the official agency of the State duly designated according to law
or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax herein
levied. (2014 Code § 7-202; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3A-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PURPOSE:
There is hereby levied a Municipal Excise Tax of four and one- half percent
(4.5%) upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales, leases
or rentals taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code as follows:
   A.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied by the first cent tax, by
ordinance 73-01, to provide revenues for the support of the general Municipal
government of the Town.
   B.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied by the second cent tax, by
ordinance 80-03, to provide revenues for the payment of costs of construction
of water and sewer treatment and distribution systems, with any remaining
revenues to be placed in the General Fund.
   C.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied by the third cent tax, by
ordinance passed in 1994, to be earmarked specifically for streets and alleys
and to be reconsidered for general election to general election on a two (2)
year continuing basis as long as reapproved at each general election. (2014
Code § 7-205)
   D.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied by the fourth cent tax, by
ordinance 2012-4, to provide revenues for the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrading and extension of the public roadways within the Town. (Ord.
2012-4, 8-20-2012, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2012)
   E.   It is the purpose of the Sales Tax levied by the one-half cent tax, by
ordinance 2013-01, to provide revenues to be used for capital expenditures and
related costs within the Town pertaining to the design, construction,
reconstruction, and improvement of the water and wastewater systems, all for
the use and benefit of the Town and any public trust having the Town as
beneficiary thereof and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with
obligations heretofore issued or to be issued to finance or refinance said
capital expenditures and related costs. (Ord. 2013-01, 9-9-2013, eff. 4-1-2014)
3-3A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional Town permit for the same purpose. (2014 Code § 7-204)
3-3A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code. (2014 Code § 7-203)
3-3A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The Town Sales Tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2018 Code)
3-3A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under this article shall be due and payable at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Sales Tax under that
Sales Tax law of the State. (2014 Code § 7-213)
3-3A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of State Sales Tax under the
Sales Tax law of the State.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the Town Sales Tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
Town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the Town Sales Tax and
the State Sales Tax. (2014 Code § 7-214)
3-3A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor; and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge; and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts. (2014 Code § 7-216)
   C.   No vendor shall fail, neglect or refuse to collect the full amount of
the tax levied; or wilfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to comply
with the provisions of this article; or remit or rebate to a consumer or user,
either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the
tax herein levied; or make in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise,
any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for
the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the
tax, or in any manner whatsoever. (2014 Code § 7-216; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the State Sales Tax Code, and
remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the Code for collection of State Sales Taxes.
(2014 Code § 7-217)
3-3A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: The provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217
are hereby adopted and made a part of this article. Interest and penalties at
the rates and in amounts specified in said State Statute are hereby levied and
shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax
levied by this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. If such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim
to any discount allowed under this article. (2014 Code § 7-218)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the Town tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the
waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the State Sales Tax
provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this subsection, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are adopted by
reference and made a part of this article. (2014 Code § 7-219)
3-3A-12: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS; PENALTIES:
   A.   No taxpayer shall:
      1.   Fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as required under
this article; or
      2.   Make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this article. (2014
Code § 7-221; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Any person required to collect and remit Sales Tax pursuant to the
State Sales Tax Code or this Code, and engaging in any of the callings, trades,
avocations, professions, businesses or occupations for which a license is
required by the Town, and applying for such license, must submit proof as a
condition precedent to issuing such license of a valid Sales Tax permit number
issued by the State of Oklahoma.
   C.   Any license issued by the Town to any person engaging in any of the
callings, trades, avocations, businesses, professions or occupations for which
a license is required by this Code may be suspended or revoked for failure to
maintain a lawful Sales Tax license or collect and remit Sales Tax if and as
required by the State Sales Tax Code or this Code. (2014 Code § 7-221)
   D.   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, any
violation of this section shall subject the offending taxpayer to the penalty
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense and charged separately pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-111.
(2014 Code § 7-221; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3A-13: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT; ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
   A.   Taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2014 Code § 7-215)
   B.   The Board of Trustees may designate the Clerk-Treasurer or his/her
designated representative as Code Enforcement Officer for the purpose of
enforcing the Town Sales Tax Code. (2018 Code)
3-3A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the Town Sales Tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
State Sales Tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2014 Code § 7-220)
3-3A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the Town Sales Tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
and all subsections thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the Town Sales Tax as if herein
set forth in full. (2014 Code § 7-222)
3-3A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the Town hereby authorize the Board of Trustees, by ordinance
duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in
the method and manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; except, that the rate of the
tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
electors of the Town as provided by law. (2014 Code § 7-224; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of Town ordinances. (2014 Code § 7-223)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Short Title; Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Tax Imposed; Subjects Of Taxation
3-3B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-5: Subsisting State Permits
3-3B-6: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3B-7: Tax Due Date
3-3B-8: Collection By Retailer Or Vendor
3-3B-9: Revoking Permits And Licenses
3-3B-10: Remunerative Deductions
3-3B-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3B-12: Fraudulent Returns
3-3B-13: Enforcement Of Payment
3-3B-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-3B-15: Records Confidential
3-3B-16: Provisions Cumulative
3-3B-1: SHORT TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: This article shall be known and may be cited as the TOWN
OF LOCUST GROVE USE TAX. (2014 Code § 7-301)
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to provide revenues for the
support of the functions of the Municipal government of the Town, and any and
all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the Board of Trustees for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized. (2018 Code)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the term "tax collector"
means the Town Clerk-Treasurer or designee or the official agency of the State,
duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer
the collection of the tax herein levied. (2014 Code § 7-302; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3B-3: TAX IMPOSED; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the Town tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the Town, an Excise Tax on the storage, use or other consumption
within the Town of such property at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within the Town, tangible personal
property purchased or brought into the Town. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
with the Town and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible personal property intended solely for use outside the Town but which
is stored in the Town pending shipment outside the Town or which is temporarily
retained in the Town for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or Municipal Sales Tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the Town had been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (2014 Code § 7-
303)
3-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Exemptions from the tax levied herein shall be allowed pursuant to 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1404. (2018 Code)
3-3B-5: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional Town permit for the same purpose pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1401 et seq. (2014 Code § 7-318; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3B-6: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code
pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401 et seq. (2014 Code § 7-317; amd.
2018 Code)
3-3B-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax under the Use Tax Code of
the State of Oklahoma. (2014 Code § 7-306)
3-3B-8: COLLECTION BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   A.   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the State, and making sales of tangible personal property from a place
of business outside this State for use in this Town shall, at the time of
making such sales, collect the Use Tax levied by this article from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax
Commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the Town and
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in the Town. (2014 Code § 7-308)
   B.   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this State but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the Town and by the out of State place of
business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without this State and making sales of tangible personal property at such
out of State place of business for use in the Town. Such retailer or vendor may
be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the Tax Commission
in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall
prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor
to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his knowledge
for the use within the Town. Such authority and permit may be canceled when at
any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can more effectively be
collected from the person using such property in the Town. Provided, however,
that in all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within the Town by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or
vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales
or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable Town Sales Tax at
the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer's Sales Tax permit number accordingly. (2014 Code § 7-309)
3-3B-9: REVOKING PERMITS AND LICENSES:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
State, or both within and without this State, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any orders, rules or regulations of the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the Use Tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this State may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
State and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission. (2014 Code § 7-310)
3-3B-10: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the Code for the collection of State Use Taxes. (2014 Code §
7-311)
3-3B-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as herein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article. (2014 Code
§ 7-312)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the Town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the State
Use Tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish the
purposes of this subsection, the applicable provisions of section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2014 Code § 7-
313)
3-3B-12: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall
constitute a separate offense. (2014 Code § 7-315)
3-3B-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. The Board of
Trustees also may designate the Town Clerk-Treasurer as Code Enforcement
Officer for purposes of enforcing the Town Use Tax Code. (2014 Code § 7-307;
amd. 2018 Code)
3-3B-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the Town Use Tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
State Use Tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(2014 Code § 7-314)
3-3B-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the Town Use Tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of the Town Use Tax as is herein
set forth in full. (2014 Code § 7-316)
3-3B-16: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of the Town ordinances. (2014 Code § 7-319)
ARTICLE C. UTILITIES TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Tax Levied
3-3C-2: Application Of Tax; Exemptions
3-3C-3: Term Of Tax; Payment; Disposition Of Funds
3-3C-4: Failure To Pay Tax
3-3C-5: Enforcement Of Payment; Tax Lien
3-3C-6: Permits Granted To Taxpayers In Utilities Businesses
3-3C-1: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of power, light, heat,
water, gas and electricity in the Town, which tax shall be in lieu of any other
Franchise, License, Occupation, or Excise Tax levied by the Town, all as
provided by State law. (2014 Code § 7-501)
3-3C-2: APPLICATION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The tax levied under this article shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
engaged in the business of furnishing power, light, heat, water, gas or
electricity within the Town limits, except it shall not apply to any person,
firm, association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the
Town. (2014 Code § 7-502)
3-3C-3: TERM OF TAX; PAYMENT; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The tax levied under this article shall be payable until repealed by the Board
of Trustees and shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the Town. (2014
Code § 7-503; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3C-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person failing or refusing to pay such tax when levied shall be regarded as
a trespasser and may be ousted from the Town, and in addition thereto, an
action may be maintained against such person for the amount of the tax, and all
expenses of collecting same, including reasonable attorney fees. (2014 Code §
7-504)
3-3C-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT; TAX LIEN:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the Town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas, power, light, heat, water and electricity within the
Town limits per 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2605. (2014 Code § 7-505; amd.
2018 Code)
3-3C-6: PERMITS GRANTED TO TAXPAYERS IN UTILITIES BUSINESSES:
Any persons engaged in the business of furnishing gas, power, light, heat,
water and electricity within the Town limits, not operating under a valid
franchise from the Town, and upon whom the tax provided under section
3-3C-1 of this article is imposed, is hereby granted a revocable permit by the
Town for so long as this article remains in effect and the taxes are paid in
accordance with the terms of this article to acquire, construct, erect,
install, extend, repair, remove, relocate, replace, operate and maintain a
system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus, structures and appurtenances in,
across, upon and under the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, parks,
parkways, sidewalks, parkings, driveways, rights-of-way, utility easements, and
other public ways, places, areas and grounds, all being sometimes referred to
herein as streets, alleys, avenues, and other public ways, places and grounds,
in the Town, as now constituted, and as may be added to hereafter, for the
purpose of transporting, distributing and selling power, heat, light, water,
electricity or gas to the Town, its inhabitants and the public generally for
domestic, commercial and industrial uses, and for any and all other purposes
for which utility, during the period of this revocable permit may be used,
together with the right to enter upon the streets, alleys, avenues and other
public ways, places and grounds of the Town for the purpose of constructing,
erecting, installing, extending, relocating, operating, maintaining, removing
and repairing the works, pipes, pipelines and all necessary apparatus,
machinery, structures and appurtenances. (2014 Code § 7-506; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE D. HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Short Title
3-3D-2: Definitions
3-3D-3: Tax Levied; Rate; Tax Is Additional
3-3D-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-3D-5: Subsisting State Permits
3-3D-6: Operator Duties
3-3D-7: Bond Requirements
3-3D-8: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-3D-9: Refunds
3-3D-10: Notices
3-3D-11: Remedies Exclusive
3-3D-12: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns
3-3D-13: Powers Of Clerk-Treasurer
3-3D-14: Certificates
3-3D-15: Use Of Funds; Discounts
3-3D-16: Records Confidential
3-3D-17: Responsibility For Legal Fees
3-3D-18: Amendments
3-3D-19: Provisions Cumulative
3-3D-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and cited as the TOWN OF LOCUST GROVE HOTEL/MOTEL
TAX and hereinafter referred to as "this article". (2018 Code)
3-3D-2: DEFINITIONS:
CLERK-TREASURER: The Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Locust Grove.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which three (3) or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of transient guests, whether such rooms are in one or several houses or courts,
lodging houses, bed and breakfast inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer
motels, apartments and sleeping rooms and are not occupied by "permanent
residents", and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping accommodations or
space are furnished for a consideration. The term shall not include hospitals,
sanitariums, nursing homes, university dormitories or other educational or
charitable institutions.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to use or possess, any room or
rooms in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to
the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room
or rooms.
OCCUPANT: A person who, for a consideration, uses or possesses, or has the
right to use or possess, any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel in the Town including, but not limited
to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgage in possession, license,
or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who has or shall have the right of occupancy
of any room or rooms in a hotel and/or motel for not less than thirty (30)
consecutive days during the current calendar year or preceding year, with
permanent residency to end when any such break in residency occurs.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, voluntary
association, firm, club, society, organization or any other entity of
whatsoever kind or nature.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credit, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is not capable of being occupied for lodging purposes and which is used
for educational, recreational, or amusement purposes and shall include: dance
halls; cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or
private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties, or weddings, lodge and meeting
halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling,
and table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar type of occupancy.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article. (2014 Code § 7-403; amd. 2018
Code)
3-3D-3: TAX LEVIED; RATE; TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of four and three-eighths percent (43/8%)
of the gross rental receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code upon the service of furnishing rooms by hotels or motels within
the Town; except, that the tax shall not be assessed where the rent is less
than five dollars ($5.00) per day. This Excise Tax shall be in addition to any
existing Sales Taxes imposed by the Town or the State of Oklahoma. (2014 Code §
7-405)
3-3D-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   Entities Exempt: Officers, agents, representatives, or employees or any
government, corporation, organization, or association that is legally exempted
from Oklahoma Sales Taxation, or from the Town Sales Taxation and whose
occupancy of the room is required in connection with the official business or
affairs of said government, corporation, or association, shall be exempt from
the tax levied by this article. (2014 Code § 7-406)
   B.   Certificate Of Exemption Required: Any person claiming to be exempt
from the tax pursuant to subsection A of this section shall display proof of
exemption and tax identification number certifying that the corporation,
organization, or association with which he/she is affiliated is exempt from the
tax. The exemption will not be validated unless exemption claimed is for the
month in which it occurs unless good cause is shown. (2014 Code § 7-407; amd.
2018 Code)
3-3D-5: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business by the Oklahoma Tax Commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, for the purposes of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional Town permit for the same purpose. (2018 Code)
3-3D-6: OPERATOR DUTIES:
   A.   Designate Tax On Bills: The operator shall separately designate,
charge, and show all taxes on all bills, statements, receipts, or any other
evidence of charges or payment of rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the
operator. (2014 Code § 7-408)
   B.   Collect Tax: The operator shall be responsible for the collection of
the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the Town for the tax. (2014
Code § 7-409)
   C.   Keep Records: It shall be the duty of every operator required to make a
return and pay tax under this article to keep and preserve suitable records of
the gross daily rentals, together with other pertinent records and documents
which may be necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder and such
other records. (2014 Code § 7-411; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Returns: The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable to the
Clerk-Treasurer on the first day of each month, except as herein provided, by
any person liable for the payment of any tax due under this article. For the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of the tax payable under this article, it
shall be the duty of all operators, on or before the fifteenth day of each
month, to deliver to the Clerk- Treasurer, upon forms prescribed and furnished
thereby, returns, under oath, showing the gross receipts or gross proceeds
arising from rents received from occupancy of hotel rooms during the preceding
calendar month. Such returns shall show such further information as the Clerk-
Treasurer may request, and the operator shall furnish any information deemed
necessary for a correct computation of the tax levied herein. Such operator
shall compute and remit to the Clerk-Treasurer the required tax due for the
preceding calendar month. The remittance or remittances of the tax shall
accompany the returns herein required. If not paid on or before the fifteenth
of such month, the tax shall be delinquent after such date; provided, that no
interest or penalty shall be charged on such return filed on or before the
twentieth day of such month. (2014 Code § 7-412)
   E.   Payment Of Tax: At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of
rents, each operator shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer the tax imposed by this
article upon the rents included in such return, as well as all other monies
collected by the operator acting or purporting to act under the provisions of
this article. (2014 Code § 7-413)
   F.   Interest: If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the
person responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid
tax at the rate of two percent (2%) per month on the unpaid balance from the
date of the delinquency until such unpaid balance is paid in full. (2014 Code §
7-422; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3D-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Where the Clerk-Treasurer believes that any operator is about to cease
business, leave the State, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other
similar reason he/she deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under
this article, he/she may require such operator to file with the Town a bond
issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this State in
such amount as the Clerk-Treasurer may fix to secure the payment of any tax or
penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator. In the
event that the Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designee determines that an operator
is to file such bond, he/she shall give notice to such operator specifying the
amount of bond required, which shall in no event exceed twice the amount of the
sum in controversy. The operator shall file such bond within five (5) days
after receiving such notice unless, within such five (5) days, the operator
shall request in writing a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees, at which
time the necessity and amount of such bond shall be determined by the Town
Board of Trustees. Such determination shall be final and shall be complied with
within fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved
by the Clerk-Treasurer or cash in such amount as he/she may prescribe may be
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer, who may, at any time after five (5) days'
notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due, and
for that purpose, the securities may be sold at private or public sale. (2014
Code § 7-414; amd. 2018 Code)
3-3D-8: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return by this article is not filed, or if a return is incorrect or
insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the Clerk-Treasurer
from such information as may be obtainable, and if necessary, the tax may be
estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms, location,
scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and services, number
of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such assessments shall be
given to the person liable for the collection and payment of the tax. Such
assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the
person against whom it is assessed, within ninety (90) days after the giving of
notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the Town Board of Trustees
for a hearing or unless the Clerk-Treasurer, upon his own initiative, shall
reassess the same. After such hearing, the Town Board of Trustees shall give
written notice of its determination to the person against whom the tax is
assessed, and such determination shall be final. (2014 Code § 7-415)
3-3D-9: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The Clerk-Treasurer shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously, illegally, unconstitutionally collected if written application to
the Clerk-Treasurer for such refund shall be made within ninety (90) days from
the date of payment thereof. For like causes and in the same period, a refund
may be made upon the initiative and the order of the Clerk- Treasurer. Whenever
a refund is made, the reason therefor shall be stated in writing. Such
application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was imposed and who
has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by the person who
has collected and paid such tax to the Clerk-Treasurer; provided, that the
application is made within ninety (90) days of the payment by the occupant to
the operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he/she
has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is
made. The Clerk-Treasurer, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow
credit therefor on payments due from the applicant.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the Clerk-
Treasurer may receive evidence with respect thereto and make such investigation
as he/she deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination
shall be final unless the applicant, within ninety (90) days after such notice,
shall apply in writing to the Town Board of Trustees for a hearing. After such
hearing, the Town Board of Trustees shall give written notice of its decision
to the applicant. (2014 Code § 7-416)
3-3D-10: NOTICES:
Any notice provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given
when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in
the United States mail addressed to the last known address of the operator.
(2014 Code § 7-417)
3-3D-11: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article. (2014 Code
§ 7-418)
3-3D-12: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or a portion thereof rightfully due
under this article, shall be an offense against the Town. (2014 Code § 7-424;
amd. 2018 Code)
3-3D-13: POWERS OF CLERK-TREASURER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the Clerk- Treasurer, he/she is
hereby authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
collection of taxes pursuant to this article.
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days and, for cause shown, to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest.
   C.   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee
or employees of the Town.
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise, and readjust the taxes imposed
by this article.
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(2014 Code § 7-419)
   F.   To file a lien for nonpayment of taxes, penalties and/or interest
pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2701 and 2704. (2018 Code)
3-3D-14: CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Filing Certificate Of Registration: Every operator shall file with the
Clerk-Treasurer a registration certificate in a form prescribed by said Clerk-
Treasurer within ten (10) days after the effective date hereof or, in the case
of operators commencing business or opening new hotels after such effective
date, within three (3) days after such commencement or opening.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Authority: The Clerk-Treasurer shall, within
five (5) days after the filing of such certificate, issue without charge to
each operator a Certificate of Authority empowering such operator to collect
the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel.
Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is applicable.
   C.   Display Of Certificate Of Authority: Such Certificate of Authority
shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be
seen and come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy.
   D.   Nontransferability Of Certificates: Such certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
Clerk-Treasurer upon the cessation of business at the hotel or upon its sale or
transfer. (2014 Code § 7-420)
3-3D-15: USE OF FUNDS; DISCOUNTS:
   A.   Use Of Funds: Funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be set aside and used exclusively for the following purposes:
      1.   Forty five percent (45%) for the purchase of equipment for the
Police Department of the Town.
      2.   Forty five percent (45%) for the purchase of equipment for the Fire
Department of the Town.
      3.   Ten percent (10%) for the support of the public library of the Town.
(2014 Code § 7-404; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Discount: In order to compensate an operator for keeping records,
filing reports, and remitting the tax when due, a discount equal to that
allowed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission for the collection of Sales Tax shall be
allowed upon all taxes paid prior to the time they became delinquent. (2014
Code § 7-410)
3-3D-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the tax is legislatively recognized and declared; and to
protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and each
subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective
and applicable to the administration of this article as if herein set forth.
(2014 Code § 7-423)
3-3D-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR LEGAL FEES:
In the event a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction is caused to be filed,
either on behalf of or against the Town, and said cause is the direct result of
the conditions, stipulations, or requirements hereinbefore set forth, an amount
necessary to pay all legal fees incurred by the Town, as well as fines or
penalties imposed against it, shall be set aside from the monies authorized to
be collected hereby in payment thereof, regardless of whether said cause was
for the purpose of enforcing or defending the provisions of this article. (2014
Code § 7-428)
3-3D-18: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Locust Grove, by their approval of this article in an election
provided, hereby authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly
enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administering and enforcing this article as may be
necessary or proper for the efficiency and fairness; except, that the rate of
the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified
voters of the Town as provided by law. (2014 Code § 7-425)
3-3D-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of Town ordinances. (2014 Code § 7-426)
CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE AND CHARGE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Fee Levied
3-4-2: Due Date; Disposition Of Funds
3-4-3: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees And Taxes
3-4-1: FEE LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
Town in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the Town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of lines and equipment of the telephone
company in the Town. (2014 Code § 7-401)
3-4-2: DUE DATE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the Town on or before
May 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from
the General Revenue Fund of the Town. (2014 Code § 7-401)
3-4-3: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES AND TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges and excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the Town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the Town. (2014 Code § 7-402)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Required
4-1-2: Application For License; Compliance With Provisions; Issuance Of License
4-1-3: Expiration Of License
4-1-4: License Fees
4-1-5: Nontransferability Of License
4-1-6: Display Of License
4-1-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Appeals
4-1-8: Exemptions
4-1-9: Penalty
4-1-10: Location Restrictions
4-1-11: Emergency
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except for those occupations regulated by State law, it is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation, either as principal, officer, agent, servant or
employee, to engage in any calling, trade, profession or occupation without
first paying to the Town the fee or tax required, and procuring a current
license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. (2014 Code § 9-101)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; ISSUANCE OF
LICENSE:
All licenses shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. No license shall be
issued until there has been compliance with all conditions prescribed by this
chapter, and a certificate of examination or inspection is filed with the Town
Clerk- Treasurer in those cases where examination or inspection is required by
ordinance. Any applicant for a license shall make application upon such forms
as may be prescribed by ordinance or may be prescribed by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. (2014 Code § 9-102)
4-1-3: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall expire no later than one year from the date of issuance
unless a different date of expiration is provided by the ordinance providing
for the particular license. (2014 Code § 9-103; amd. 2018 Code)
4-1-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fee Schedule: A tax or license fee, as shall be set by the Town Board
by motion or resolution, is assessed upon each of the persons engaging in any
of the occupations, trades or businesses licensed or taxed by the Town, for
which such person shall first procure a license therefor. Any person who shall
engage in more than one business, trade or occupation on which any license fee
is required by the Town ordinances, so long as such businesses are operated
under one roof and one ownership, shall pay only one license fee. (2014 Code §
9-109; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All license fees shall be paid in advance for the
license period for which issued. The license fee may be prorated for a new
business commencing during the second six (6) months of a fiscal year. The
prorated fee shall be in proportion to the amount of the year remaining during
which time it will operate. At the direction of the Town Board, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer may issue licenses to licensees, sending them statements for fees
due, and if the same is not paid within sixty (60) days from the due date, the
license shall thereupon become null and void. (2014 Code § 9-104)
4-1-5: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred except as may be specifically
authorized by ordinance or State law. (2014 Code § 9-105; amd. 2018 Code)
4-1-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It is the duty of any person, having obtained a license for any authorized
purpose, to have the same placed or posted in a secure manner in some public
place on the premises occupied and used for such business and where the license
may be readily seen at any time by any person entering the place of business.
Any licensee who does not occupy any certain premises for the conduct of such
licensed business shall carry his license on his person and shall display the
same whenever requested. (2014 Code § 9-106)
4-1-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: All licenses issued by the Town shall be subject to
revocation or suspension by the duly authorized officer of the Town Board upon
any breach of any condition prescribed by ordinance for the regulation of such
licensed occupation or in the event such licensee operates such licensed
occupation or business in violation of the laws of the Town or the State or in
violation of any law or regulation of the United States government. The duly
authorized officer shall mean the Town Clerk-Treasurer in all instances except
when some other person or board is given the authority by ordinance to revoke
or suspend the particular license. (2014 Code § 9-107; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The duly authorized officer shall
either give written notice by personal service or by mail to the licensee of
the revocation of his license, or the suspension of the same, which notice, if
mailed, shall be mailed to the address given on the application or license. The
license shall stand revoked or suspended from the time of the giving of such
notice. (2014 Code § 9-107)
   C.   Appeals: Any aggrieved applicant or licensee may appeal to the Town
Board from such decision within ten (10) days after the aforesaid notice by
filing a written request with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for a hearing. The
hearing shall be held by the Town Board at the time and place set by said Town
Board following the filing of the appeal, but may be continued from day to day.
Notice of such hearing shall be sent by mail to the last known address of the
applicant at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for hearing. The
appealing licensee may be represented by counsel. The hearing shall be
conducted in an informal manner, but no license shall be revoked or suspended
except upon a preponderance of the evidence. The board may affirm, modify or
vacate the order of revocation or suspension, and its decision shall be final.
(2014 Code § 9-107; amd. 2018 Code)
4-1-8: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   A farmer selling in Town produce actually produced by him in the
County;
   B.   All scientific or literary entertainers or lecturers;
   C.   All concerts, musicals or other entertainment given exclusively by the
citizens of the Town; and
   D.   All entertainments, the proceeds from which are to be devoted to
charity or to public uses or improvements. (2014 Code § 9-108)
4-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 9-111)
4-1-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Tobacco shops shall be located not less than three hundred (300) feet
from any school or playground.
   B.   Vapor shops shall be located not less than three hundred (300) feet
from any school or playground. (Ord. 2019-05, 11-11-2019)
4-1-11: EMERGENCY:
It being immediately necessary for the preservation of the public health,
safety, peace and welfare of the inhabitants of the town, that the provisions
of this chapter be enacted immediately to accommodate the needs of the town and
an emergency is hereby declared to exist by reason whereof the provisions of
this chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its approval
and adoption, as required by law. (Ord. 2019-05, 11-11-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND LOW POINT BEER
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Terms And Phrases, And Incorporation Of State Law
4-2A-1: TERMS AND PHRASES, AND INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, all of the terms and phrases used in
this chapter shall be given the same use and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. “Minor” shall mean a person who, in accordance
with state law, has not yet attained the age at which consumption of alcoholic
beverages is permitted. “State licensee” means any person who holds a license
issued under the authority of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   B.   The provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code, Sections 101 et
seq. of Title 37 A of the Oklahoma Statutes are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference and are applicable to the Town of Locust Grove and are
enforceable by the Town of Locust Grove as if fully set out at length herein
including, but not limited to, all applicable license fees and occupation
taxes.
C.   The provisions and definitions contained in Title 37 A of the Oklahoma
Statutes are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable to
the production, consumption, sale and possession of alcoholic beverages. (Ord.
2018-02, 9-28-2018)ARTICLE B. LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Definitions
4-2B-2: State Permit And Town License Required
4-2B-3: Application For License
4-2B-4: License Fee
4-2B-5: Issuance Of License
4-2B-6: Term Of License; Nontransferability
4-2B-7: Location Restrictions
4-2B-8: Days And Hours Of Sales
4-2B-9: Persons Under Twenty One
4-2B-10: Dancing Prohibited
4-2B-11: Adding Alcohol To Low Point Beer
4-2B-12: Transporting Low Point Beer
4-2B-13: Inspections
4-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LOW POINT BEER: All beverages containing more than one- half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%)
alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt beverages
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain,
malt or similar products.
MINOR: A person who, in accordance with State law, has not yet attained the age
at which the consumption of low point beer is permitted.
RETAIL DEALER: Means and includes any and all persons who sell, distribute or
dispense any low point beer at retail to the public for consumption or use,
whether consumed on the premises or not. (2014 Code § 3-201; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2B-2: STATE PERMIT AND TOWN LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   State Permit: No person shall engage in the business of selling,
offering for sale or distributing any low point beer, at retail, for
consumption or use, without first having obtained a State permit to do so, and
in cases where such beverage is consumed on the premises, a permit as provided
by the Statutes of the State. (2014 Code § 3-202; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Town License: No person shall sell, distribute or dispense any low
point beer at retail to the public without first having obtained a license to
do so from the Town. (2014 Code § 3-203; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An applicant for a retail dealer's license or renewal of such license shall
deposit the required fee with the Town Clerk- Treasurer and submit an
application on the form provided containing the information required by the
Town. (2014 Code § 3-204)
4-2B-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee shall be set by the Town Board by motion or resolution for a
license under this article for retail dealers selling low point beer for
consumption on or off the premises and retail dealers selling low point beer in
original packages and not for consumption on the premises. (2014 Code § 3-203)
4-2B-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Licenses required by this article shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
upon payment of the required fee and compliance by the applicant with all
applicable ordinances of the Town and upon a satisfactory showing that the
applicant has obtained such State and County permits as are required by law.
(2014 Code § 3-203)
4-2B-6: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
The license shall expire annually on June 30. No license issued hereunder is
transferable. (2014 Code § 3-203)
4-2B-7: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall own, operate, maintain or have any interest in any retail
establishment which is located at a place in the Town which is forbidden as a
location for such establishment by State laws or Town ordinances. (2014 Code §
3-214; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2B-8: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   No retail dealer licensed to sell low point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption on the premises on Sundays between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon or between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on any other day. (2014 Code
§ 3-208)
   B.   No retail dealer of any business selling "low point beer", as that term
is defined in this article, for consumption on the premises, nor any operator,
agent, or employee of the retail dealer, shall permit any person who has in his
possession an open container having as its contents low point beer, to remain
in the premises between the hours of two fifteen o'clock (2:15) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday or between the hours of two fifteen o'clock (2:
15) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Mondays through Saturdays. No person,
having in his possession an open container having as its contents low point
beer shall remain in the premises between the hours of one minute after two
o'clock (2:01) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Mondays through Saturdays, or
between the hours of one minute after two o'clock (2:01) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays. For the purpose of this subsection, an "open
container" shall mean any receptacle containing low point beer to include the
original container of the low point beer where the original seal has been
broken or opened. (2014 Code § 3-208; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   No retail dealer licensed to sell low point beer shall sell such
beverages for consumption off the premises on any day between two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (2014 Code § 3-208)
   D.   The penalty for a violation of this section is per 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 14-111C. (2018 Code)
4-2B-9: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Sales To: It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low point beer, or any agent, servant or employee of the license
holder, to sell, barter or give to any minor any low point beer. This
subsection shall not apply to a parent as regards his own child or children.
(2014 Code § 3-206)
   B.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and
dispense low point beer for consumption on the premises, or any agent, servant,
or employee of the license holder, to permit any minor to be admitted to or
remain in a separate or enclosed bar area of the licensed premises which has as
its main purpose the selling or serving of low point beer for consumption on
the premises, unless the minor's parent or legal guardian is present. The
provisions of this subsection B1 shall not prohibit minors from being admitted
to an area which has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or
serving of low point beer, in which sales or serving of the beverages are
incidental to the main purpose, as long as minors are not sold or served low
point beer; however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not
exempt a licensee, agent, servant, or employee from the provisions of this
subsection B1. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this
subsection B1 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   If the premises of a holder of a license to sell low point beer
contains a separate or enclosed bar area which has as its main purpose the sale
or serving of low point beer for consumption on the premises, no minor shall
enter, attempt to enter, or remain in the area. The provisions of this
subsection B2 shall not prohibit minors from entering or remaining in an area
which has as its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of
low point beer, in which sale or serving of the beverage is incidental to the
main purpose, if the minors are not sold or served or do not consume low point
beer anywhere on the premises; however, the incidental service of food in the
bar area shall not exempt minors from the provisions of this subsection B2. A
showing by competent testimony that a minor was found upon premises of a retail
dealer shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection B2.
(2014 Code § 3-205)
   C.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person shall misrepresent his age, either
orally or in writing or by presenting false or altered documentation of age for
the purpose of inducing any person to sell him low point beer. (2014 Code § 3-
212; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Employment:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to be
employed or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in a place where low
point beer is sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises.
      2.   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work, in
any capacity whatsoever, in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place where
the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low point beer. The
provisions of this subsection D2 shall not apply to any area which has as its
main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low point beer,
in which sale or serving of low point beer is incidental to the main purpose;
however, the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not exempt a
holder of a license to sell low point beer for consumption on the premises from
the provisions of this subsection D2.
      3.   A parent as regards the employment of his own child or children is
excepted from the provisions of this subsection; provided, that such employment
shall in no capacity whatsoever be related to the selling or dispensing of low
point beer.
      4.   The provisions of subsection D1 of this section shall not apply to
any business or establishment where sales of low point beer do not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the gross sales of the business or establishment.
(2014 Code § 3-207)
   E.   Possession: No minor shall be in possession of any low point beer while
such person is upon any public street, building or place. (2014 Code § 3-210;
amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Consumption:
      1.   No minor shall consume or possess with intent to consume low point
beer in any public place. (2014 Code § 3-211)
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection F shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code or by appropriate community service not to exceed thirty
(30) hours, or both. (2014 Code § 3-211; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   The provisions of this subsection F shall not apply when such
persons are under the direct supervision of their parent or guardian, but in no
instance shall this exception be interpreted to allow such persons to consume
low point beer in any place licensed to dispense beer as provided in 37
Oklahoma Statutes section 163.11. (2014 Code § 3-211)
4-2B-10: DANCING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any retail dealer operating a place where low point beer is
sold for consumption on the premises, or for anyone under the retail dealer's
direction, to permit dancing therein, and it is unlawful for any individual to
dance therein. (2014 Code § 3-215; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2B-11: ADDING ALCOHOL TO LOW POINT BEER:
No person shall add or permit anyone to add any alcohol or any liquors
containing alcohol to any low point beer which raises the alcohol content
thereof above 3.2 percent. (2018 Code)
4-2B-12: TRANSPORTING LOW POINT BEER:
Except as provided by State Statute, no person shall knowingly transport in any
moving vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley within the Town any low
point beer except in the original container which shall have not been opened
and the seal upon which shall not have been broken and from which the original
cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (2014 Code § 3-209; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2B-13: INSPECTIONS:
Town officers may make inspections of all places of business where low point
beer is sold, distributed, or dispensed at retail, for the purpose of enforcing
the laws and for ascertaining whether the operators thereof are complying with
the requirements of the law relating to the handling of low point beer. (2014
Code § 3-213)
ARTICLE C. ALCOHOL COMPLIANCE CHECKS
SECTION:
4-2C-1: Definitions
4-2C-2: Sales Of Alcoholic Beverages And Low Point Beer To Certain Persons
Prohibited
4-2C-3: Inspections And Compliance Checks
4-2C-4: Responsibility Of Licensee For Employees
4-2C-5: Violations; Penalties
4-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl alcohol, or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Pursuant to 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 506(3), alcohol,
spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings, but does not include "low point beer" as defined in
this section.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the Town of Locust Grove shall use to investigate
and ensure that those authorized to sell alcoholic beverages are following and
complying with the laws of the State of Oklahoma concerning the sales of
alcoholic beverages and low point beer.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2%) alcohol by volume and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight including, but not limited to, beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar product.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age. (2018 Code)
4-2C-2: SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND LOW POINT BEER TO CERTAIN PERSONS
PROHIBITED:
The following sales of alcoholic beverages and low point beer are prohibited:
   A.   Sales to any "minor", as that term is defined in section
4-2C-1 of this article. State law requires that proof of age be demanded from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under
twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Sales by any other means to any other person prohibited by Federal,
State, or other local law, Code, ordinance, provision, or regulation. (2018
Code)
4-2C-3: INSPECTIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
   A.   Inspections:
      1.   All licensed premises in the Town shall be open to inspection by any
law enforcement officer, or other designated officer or employee of the Town,
at any time there are persons in the licensed premises.
      2.   The licensing authority shall perform a minimum frequency of at
least one compliance check every three (3) months if retailers are in
compliance with Oklahoma State law and local ordinance.
   B.   Compliance Checks:
      1.   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health Officer, Town
or County employee, or any other person designated by the Town, to conduct
inspections, to enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee at any
time without a warrant.
      2.   The Town shall conduct compliance checks with the assistance of a
minor over the age of sixteen (16) years to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase alcohol. Designated law enforcement personnel shall
supervise minors assisting with the compliance checks.
      3.   Minors assisting with the compliance checks shall not be guilty of
unlawful purchase or attempted purchase or unlawful possession of alcohol when
such alcohol is obtained or attempted to be obtained as part of the compliance
check. No minor assisting with compliance checks shall attempt to use a false
identification card misrepresenting the minor's age. The minor engaged in the
compliance check will also answer all the questions about the minor's age asked
by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce identification if
asked.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection B shall prohibit compliance checks
authorized by the State of Oklahoma or United States government for
educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the enforcement of
a particular State or Federal law. (2018 Code)
4-2C-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE FOR EMPLOYEES:
All licensees shall be responsible for the actions of their employees in regard
to the sale of alcoholic beverages and low point beer on the licensed premises,
and for the purpose of this section, the sale of such an item by an employee
shall be considered a sale by the license holder. (2018 Code)
4-2C-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Pursuant to 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 241, in addition to any
criminal penalties that may be imposed by a court of law, any violation of this
article shall also be cause for the imposition of an administrative fine,
license suspension and revocation of license.
   B.   If violation relates to the sale of low point beer or alcohol to a
minor by a licensee or his employee, the following fines, suspensions or
revocations shall be imposed:
      1.   Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor for a first violation and shall be
punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in the
County Jail for not more than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Any person convicted of a second violation within one year of the
first violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a
fine of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or imprisoned in the
County Jail for not more than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
A second offense from the same outlet within a one year time period will result
in a week long (7 day) suspension of any licenses issued by the Town to the
merchant license holder.
      3.   Any person convicted of a third violation within one year of the
first violation shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punishable by a fine
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), or by imprisonment in the custody of the
Department of Corrections for not more than five (5) years, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. A third offense from the same outlet within a one year
time period will result in a revocation of any licenses issued by the Town to
the merchant license holder.
      4.   The filing of supplemental information shall be subject to the
discretion of the District Attorney. One-half (1/2) of any fine collected shall
be deposited in the Prevention of Youth Access to Alcohol Revolving Fund
established by 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 608.
      5.   The merchant license holder where a compliance check violation has
occurred will be required to provide proof of attendance to the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) responsible beverage service and
sales training (RBSS) within sixty (60) days of the date of the violation to
the Town. If the license holder does not attend this training, the alcohol
license will not be renewed by the Town.
   C.   1. The Town reserves the right to charge administrative fees and
response costs to the alcohol license holder for violations of this article.
The amount of the administrative fees and/or response costs shall be determined
by the Town Police Department. Notice of the debt for which the responsible
person is liable shall be mailed via first class and/or certified mail within
thirty (30) days of the violation giving rise to such costs. The notice shall
contain the following information:
         a.   The name of the person(s) being held liable for the payment of
such costs.
         b.   The address of the business where the violation occurred.
         c.   The date and time of the violation.
         d.   An itemized list of the administrative fees and/or response costs
for which the person is being held liable.
      2.   The responsible person must remit payment of the administrative fees
and/or response costs to the Municipal Court Clerk within thirty (30) days of
the date of the notice. Administrative fees and response costs collected will
be added to the Police Department budget.
   D.   One-half (1/2) of any fee collected shall be deposited in the Statewide
Prevention of Youth Access to Alcohol Revolving Fund. All fines imposed by this
section are deemed payable within sixty (60) days of the date of citation or no
later than thirty (30) days after the date of any written decision determining
that a violation has occurred for appeals. Failure to pay any fine imposed
within the time limit set herein will result in a license suspension until the
date of payment. One- half (1/2) of fines collected through this article shall
be used to supplement the Police Department budget. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ITINERANT VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Licenses Required; Exemptions
4-3-3: Applications For Licenses
4-3-4: Bond Requirements
4-3-5: Signed Document For Service Of Process
4-3-6: License Fee And Exemptions
4-3-7: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-3-8: Display Of License
4-3-9: Food Sales
4-3-10: Uninvited Vending, Peddling Or Soliciting
4-3-11: Provisions Cumulative; Conflicting Provisions
4-3-12: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL: Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
ITINERANT: Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the Town
and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing goods
over an established route through the Town.
PEDDLER: A person who travels on foot or by any type of conveyance from place
to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting foodstuffs, beverages, goods, products, wares, merchandise or
other personal property of any type, and offering or exposing the same for
retail sale, or making retail sales of such articles to purchasers; provided,
that "peddler" shall not include a person selling food or beverages from a
vehicle pursuant to a valid license.
RETAIL SALE OR SALES: Any sale or sales or transactions of foodstuffs,
beverages, goods, products, wares, merchandise or other personal property,
except as made by a person engaged in selling such personal property at
wholesale to dealers in such property.
SOLICITING: All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
SOLICITOR: A person who travels on foot or by any type of conveyance from place
to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting
to take orders for the retail sales of goods, products, wares, merchandise or
other personal property of any type, excluding foodstuffs, for future delivery,
or for services to be furnished or performed in the future.
VENDOR: Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering to
sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited to,
peddlers and solicitors. (2014 Code § 9-201; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Individual License: Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall
obtain a license from the Town prior to any soliciting in the Town, unless
exempted herein, to cover each person who will be soliciting and each location
or separate place of business.
   B.   Blanket Licenses For Itinerant Vendors: Owners or lessees of buildings
in which itinerant vendors operate or locate must obtain a blanket license
covering all itinerant vendors who will be established in the building
controlled by the owner or lessee. Governmental agencies owning public
buildings may arrange a letter of agreement with the Town in lieu of a license
if licensing is contrary to the regulations governing the governmental agency.
In such a case, the letter of agreement will provide for the same requirements
as are shown in this chapter and will provide that the Town receive half the
rental fee paid by the itinerant vendor until the Town's receipts equal the
amount required for a blanket license fee. (2014 Code § 9-202)
   C.   Exemptions: The following are exempt from the license requirements of
this chapter: Farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned, cultivated or
controlled by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from
house to house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised
by the farmers and truck gardeners from such land. (2014 Code § 9-210; amd.
2018 Code)
4-3-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Individual License: Applicants for individual licenses shall file with
the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours a written application signed
by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, by a
qualified corporate officer, if a corporation, and by a managing member of a
limited liability company showing:
      1.   Name, description, birth date, social security number and address,
both legal and local, of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the Town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated; (2014 Code § 9-204; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   The place or places in the Town within the proper zoning
classification where the applicant's business is proposed to be carried on and
the length of time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
      3.   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the
application, where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      4.   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is whether they
are seconds, rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty applies to
the items being sold. If a warranty applies, the period of the warranty and the
name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for filing for the
adjustment of refund shall be specified;
      5.   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
State and Town Sales Taxes due on all items which are subject to Sales Taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma Tax Commission;
      6.   Current State Sales Tax permit number;
      7.   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by State
law or ordinances of the Town for the particular activity or business;
      8.   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number and the license
number for the vehicle, and:
         a.   Proof of liability insurance required by State law; and
         b.   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the Town
Clerk-Treasurer will be provided at least ten (10) days' notice of any
cancellation; and
      9.   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status if claiming exemption from the license
fees.
   B.   Blanket License For Itinerant Vendors: Applicants for a blanket
itinerant vendor license shall file during regular business hours a written
application signed by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a
partnership; and by a corporation officer, if a corporation, with the Town
Clerk- Treasurer showing:
      1.   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the building in which itinerant vendor shall conduct business;
      2.   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant business during the time that is proposed to be
carried on in the Town; the location or address of such person or persons when
engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such person or
persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the name and
address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the
same is incorporated and licensed to operate in the State;
      3.   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor;
      4.   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors:
         a.   The applicant shall determine the names and addresses of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the names
and permanent addresses of the parent company, if any, controlling the
itinerant vendor;
         b.   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a reject line or seconds, determine
whether there are warranties of the product, and how any complaint is to be
filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the vendor
display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers that the
product consists of seconds, rejects or irregulars if such is the case;
         c.   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
State and Town Sales Taxes and shall forward the name, product involved, and
dates of the vendor's engagement to the local office of the State Tax
Commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
State Sales Tax report form and require him to certify that he will submit a
Sales Tax report at the conclusion of his engagement in the Town;
         d.   The applicant shall post proof of liability insurance policy in
effect in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         e.   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms, etc., to the itinerant vendor and provide the Town with
a statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same; and
         f.   The applicant shall post a notice with the Town thirty (30) days
in advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business. (2014 Code §
9-204)
4-3-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any license, as provided by this chapter, shall be issued, such
applicant shall file a bond running to the Town. A person engaging in business
as an itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set forth in the bond
schedule, secured by the applicant as principal and two (2) sureties upon whom
service of process may be made in the State. All such bonds shall be approved
by the Town Attorney and conditioned that:
   A.   The applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances
of the Town and the Statutes of the State regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and
   B.   The applicant will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons
for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice by any
person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such
misrepresentation or deception was made or practiced by the owner or by his
service, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through
any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated, with
reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any
action of the bond may be brought in the name of the Town to the use of the
aggrieved person. (2014 Code § 9-206)
4-3-5: SIGNED DOCUMENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall be
issued, such applicant shall file with the Town an instrument nominating and
appointing the Town Clerk- Treasurer his true and lawful agent, with full power
and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of
the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by this
chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof. The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notices or
process may be made upon the agent and, when so made, shall be taken and held
to be as valid as if personally served on the person or persons applying for
the license under this chapter, according to the laws of this State or any
other state and waiving all claims or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgement of service or manner of service. Immediately, upon service of
process upon the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as herein provided, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by certified
mail, a copy of the notice. (2014 Code § 9-207; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-6: LICENSE FEE AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Fee Established: The application fee for licenses herein required shall
be as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution. The fees shall
be for the purposes of defraying the costs of processing the application and
conducting the investigation required by this chapter. No such fees shall be
refundable. (2014 Code § 9-203; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The fee may be waived for educational, charitable, or religious
groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make house to house
solicitations. (2014 Code § 9-203)
      2.   Any person who desires to be exempt from the license fees levied
under this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce shall provide
sufficient data on transactions and proof to the Town to establish the
interstate commerce nature of his business and transactions. If the Town
refuses to issue an interstate commerce exemption for the license fees to a
commercial business activity, then the applicant is entitled to a hearing
before the Town Judge. (2014 Code § 9-210)
4-3-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for licensing shall be immediately referred for
investigation as to the truth thereof, which investigation shall be conducted
within ten (10) business days after the application and fee are deposited with
the Town. If the Town finds no past history of the applicant indicating
violations of this Code and that the application is properly made and truthful,
a license shall be issued to the approved applicant upon payment of the fee
therefor and the filing of the required bond. In all matters of denial of the
license the applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof. The applicant shall
be advised that an appeal of a denied license may be submitted to the Town
Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 9-205; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   An applicant who has been denied a license under this chapter may
appeal the denial in writing within ten (10) days after the denial has been
received by the applicant from the Clerk-Treasurer. The Board of Trustees will
designate the time and place, no later than ten (10) days after providing
notice by mail to the applicant, that a hearing will be held by the Board.
(2018 Code)
4-3-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Peddlers and solicitors are hereby required to exhibit and display
their licenses or authorized evidence thereof in a conspicuous place at all
times whenever they are engaged in peddling or soliciting. Blanket licenses
shall be displayed and readily available for inspection by the Town.
   B.   No license or badge issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
be used or worn at any time by any person other than the licensee to whom it
was issued. (2018 Code)
4-3-9: FOOD SALES:
All applicants for license to sell foods and merchandise for human or animal
consumption shall have their application for license approved in accordance
with the applicable State food establishment requirements before the licenses
are issued. The sale of foods requires an individual license not covered by
blanket licenses. (2014 Code § 9-208)
4-3-10: UNINVITED VENDING, PEDDLING OR SOLICITING:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the Town by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant vendors and transient vendors of merchandise and
service, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant
of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting orders for merchandise
or services, or for the purpose of selling, disposing or providing the same, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 9-212)
4-3-11: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of State law
or Town ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities licensed
herein. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other Town ordinance or State law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (2014 Code § 9-211)
4-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 9-213)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: License Required; Application
4-4-2: License Application And Investigation Fees
4-4-3: Display Of License
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
A license is required to engage in, operate or maintain video games and coin
operated amusement devices. Application for such license shall be made to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, and its issuance and duration shall be governed by the
general licensing provisions set out in chapter 1 of this title. (2018 Code)
4-4-2: LICENSE APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEES:
A license fee and investigation fee are hereby levied on coin operated
amusement devices, including, but not limited to, video games, in the same
amount as the State license fee, or in the maximum allowed by State law, on
each device. Such fees shall be payable to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at the same
time and manner as the State license fees are payable to the State. The fees
shall be for the purpose of defraying the cost of processing the application
and conducting the investigation required by this section. (2018 Code)
4-4-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Video games and amusement devices are hereby required to have exhibited and
displayed thereon their license, or authorized evidence thereof, at all times
video games and amusement devices are engaged in licensed activity. (2018 Code)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
4-5-1: License Required
4-5-2: License Issuance Requirements
4-5-3: Notice Of License Issuance
4-5-4: Display Of License
4-5-5: Inspections
4-5-6: Revocation Of License
4-5-7: Appeals From Revocation Or Denial Of License
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a motorcar, automobile,
auto bus or other motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting passengers for
hire upon, over and through the streets, avenues, thoroughfares or other public
places within the Town limits, without having first obtained a license to
engage in such business from the Town Clerk- Treasurer. (2014 Code § 16-201)
4-5-2: LICENSE ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A license to operate a taxi, motorcar, automobile or motor bus business
within the Town, or upon the streets and public ways, shall be issued by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer to any person, firm or corporation of good moral character
attested to by the affidavit of two (2) resident freeholders of the Town who
shall:
      1.   Tender a license fee for the first vehicle and for each additional
vehicle per year, the license to terminate on June 30, next, thereafter.
      2.   Post a certificate from an insurance company licensed to do business
within the State of Oklahoma which cannot be canceled without ten (10) days'
notice to the Town, indemnifying the Town or any person to whom the applicant
may become liable in amounts of:
         a.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage;
         b.   Three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal
injuries arising from each accident; and
         c.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person.
      3.   Provide a list of the motor vehicles to be used in the business,
duly showing that they, and each of them, are covered by the insurance
mentioned in subsection A2 of this section; and a list of operators of the
vehicles who are to operate the motor vehicles.
   B.   Licenses may be issued to a person who has not had his motor vehicle
operator license revoked by the Commissioner of Public Safety of Oklahoma or
his counterpart in any other state within three (3) years immediately prior to
the date of the application and who has not been convicted of a felony, which
information shall be attested to by the Chief of Police to his best knowledge,
and who shall:
      1.   Exhibit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer proof of his or her being the
holder of a valid operator license issued by the State of Oklahoma; and
      2.   Submit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer a recent photograph not less than
one inch by one inch (1" x 1") and not larger than two inches by four inches
(2" x 4") in size for attachment to a permit to operate such motor vehicle.
Such photograph shall be attached and visibly displayed at all times in the
taxi or motor vehicle operated by the driver for hire. (2014 Code § 16-202;
amd. 2018 Code)
4-5-3: NOTICE OF LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Notice shall be given by the applicant for the license as set forth under
section
4-5-2 of this chapter by posting notices in five (5) public places in the Town
at least seventy two (72) hours before such license may be issued. The notice
shall be in substantially the following form:
   NOTICE
The Town of Locust Grove to all interested parties:
Take notice that on the     day of           , 20   .
An application for taxi license was presented to the Town Clerk-Treasurer by
                          and that the application will be heard by the
undersigned.
(2014 Code § 16-204)
4-5-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license shall be prominently displayed in the principal office of the
business. (2014 Code § 16-202; amd. 2018 Code)
4-5-5: INSPECTIONS:
Every person, firm or corporation obtaining a license hereunder shall, at least
once in each calendar quarter, have each vehicle so used inspected for
operational safety and furnish the Town Clerk-Treasurer proof of the safe
condition of each vehicle. The Town Chief of Police or any highway patrol
officer of the State shall be deemed qualified to conduct the inspection. (2014
Code § 16-205)
4-5-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license shall be revoked immediately upon termination of insurance, failing
to keep the list of automotive equipment and drivers up to date in the Office
of the Town Clerk- Treasurer or for good cause shown. (2014 Code § 16-202)
4-5-7: APPEALS FROM REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Issuance or revocation of or refusal to issue the foregoing licenses, and each
of them, by the Town Clerk-Treasurer may be appealed to the Town Board of
Trustees by any citizen of the Town, or person, firm or corporation aggrieved.
(2014 Code § 16-203; amd. 2018 Code)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
Any breach of this chapter by failing to obtain the licenses, operating without
licenses or failing to prominently and visibly display the same shall
constitute a breach of the ordinances of the Town and shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of such operation without a license, insurance or
operator license, or failure to display the license shall constitute a separate
breach and offense. (2014 Code § 16-206; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PROHIBITED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Junkyards
4-6-2: Salvage Yards
4-6-3: Penalty
4-6-1: JUNKYARDS:
It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a junkyard or to place on
Town lots within the Town a junkyard or material commonly found in junkyards,
or similar places of business, such as old car bodies, old vehicles, wrecked
vehicles, and old secondhand materials. It is unlawful to convert any lots
which, as of September 1969, were not so used, into such junkyard or for the
purpose of placing thereon material as described in this section. (2014 Code §
8-120)
4-6-2: SALVAGE YARDS:
It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a salvage yard in the Town.
(2014 Code § 8-121)
4-6-3: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by fine, and any person, firm
or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 8-122)
CHAPTER 7
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Permit Required; General Provisions
4-7-3: Medical Marijuana Dispensary Requirements
4-7-4: Commercial Grower Requirements
4-7-5: Marijuana Processor Requirements
4-7-6: Marijuana Storage Facilities
4-7-7: Approval, Issuance, Denial And Appeal
4-7-8: Operational And Business Plan Requirements For Medical Marijuana
Dispensary, Commercial Grower And Marijuana Processor Permit Holders
4-7-9: Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Use
4-7-10: Additional Regulations
4-7-11: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
CAREGIVER: A person that has been issued a medical marijuana license pursuant
to 63 O.S. 420A et seq.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: A license issued to a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary, Commercial Grower or Processor by the Oklahoma State Department of
Health pursuant to 63 O.S. 420A et seq.
COMMERCIAL GROWER: An entity that is licensed by the Oklahoma State Department
of Health pursuant to Title 63 O.S. 422A, which allows the entity to grow,
harvest and package medical marijuana for selling medical marijuana to a
dispensary processor or researcher.
MARIJUANA PROCESSOR: An entity that is licensed by the Oklahoma State
Department of Health pursuant to Title 63 O.S. 423A which allows the entity to
purchase marijuana from a commercial grower; prepare, manufacture, package,
sell to and deliver medical marijuana products to a dispensary licensee or
other processor licensee; and may process marijuana received from a qualified
patient into a medical marijuana concentrate, for a fee.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: An entity that is licensed by the Oklahoma State
Department of Health pursuant to Title 63 O.S. 421A which allows the entity to
purchase medical marijuana from a Commercial Grower or Processor and sell
medical marijuana only to qualified patients and caregivers.
PERMIT: A current and valid permit for a Medical Marijuana Dispensary,
Commercial Grower or Marijuana Processor issued under this chapter, which shall
be granted to a permit holder only for and limited to specific permitted
premises and specific permitted property.
PERMIT HOLDER: The person that holds a current and valid permit issued under
this chapter.
PERMITTED PREMISES: The particular building or buildings within which the
permit holder will be authorized to conduct the facility's activities pursuant
to the permit.
PERMITTED PROPERTY: The real property comprised of a lot, parcel or other
designated unit of real property upon which the permitted premises is situated.
QUALIFIED PATIENT: A person that has been issued a medical marijuana license
pursuant to 63 O.S. 420A et seq. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate a Medical Marijuana Dispensary, Commercial
Grower or Marijuana Processor at any time or at any location within the Town of
Locust Grove unless a currently effective permit for that person at that
location has been issued under this chapter.
   B.   A Medical Marijuana Dispensary, Commercial Grower or Marijuana
Processor shall operate only as allowed under this chapter.
   C.   The requirements set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to, and
not in lieu of, any other licensing or permitting requirements imposed by
applicable federal, state or local laws, regulations, codes or ordinances.
   D.   A permit and renewal permit shall not confer any vested rights or
reasonable expectation of subsequent renewal on the applicant or permit holder
and shall remain valid only until the 25th day of August immediately following
its approval.
   E.   It is the sole and exclusive responsibility of each permit holder or
person applying to be a permit holder to immediately provide the Town of Locust
Grove with all material changes in any information submitted on an application
and any other changes that may materially affect any Commercial Establishment
License or Town of Locust Grove permit.
   F.   No permit issued under this chapter may be assigned or transferred to
any person unless the assignee or transferee has submitted an application and
all required fees under this chapter and has been granted a permit by the Town
of Locust Grove. No permit issued under this chapter is transferrable to any
other location except for the permitted premises. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-3: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary within the Town of Locust Grove must maintain a valid commercial
establishment license from the Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person
operating a Medical Marijuana Dispensary within the Town of Locust Grove shall
provide the town with a copy of their commercial establishment license issued
by the Oklahoma Department of Health prior to commencing operation and shall
further provide the city with a copy of any renewal of the commercial
establishment license not later than August 25th of each calendar year.
   B.   Town Permit Requirement: All operators of a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary within the Town of Locust Grove must obtain a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary permit from the Town Clerk prior to commencing operation.
      1.   Prior to issuance of a Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit, the
physical address of the proposed Medical Marijuana Dispensary will be subject
to a property inspection by an authorized Town Inspector to ensure compliance
with all Town Codes. The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and
approved by both the applicant and Town Inspector. The applicant is required to
be present during the inspection. All structures, equipment and apparatus shall
comply with all building and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and
the Town of Locust Grove.
   C.   Applications For Medical Marijuana Dispensary Permit: Any person
seeking to obtain a Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit shall submit a written
application to the Town Clerk on a town prescribed form to include, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   Physical address of the establishment;
      3.   Phone number of the establishment;
      4.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      5.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      6.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      7.   The applicant's date of birth;
      8.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address; and
      9.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      10.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization.
      11.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity that is not lawfully entitled to possess marijuana.
      12.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed permit holder's valid
tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted premises.
If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises, a
notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of the
property for a Medical Marijuana Dispensary;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility;
         c.   Evidence of a valid sales tax license for the business if such a
license is required by state law or local regulations;
         d.   Application for sign permit, if any sign is proposed; and
         e.   Any other information reasonably requested by the Town of Locust
' Grove to be relevant to the processing or consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Application processing fees for a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary permit shall be as set forth in the resolution establishing fees as
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Locust Grove. The fee shall be
used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
inspection, administration and enforcement of Medical Marijuana Dispensary
establishments.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Annual renewal fees of any Medical Marijuana Dispensary
permit shall be as set forth in the resolution establishing fees as adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Locust Grove. The fee shall be used to
offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of Medical Marijuana Dispensary establishments.
   F.   Application fees and annual renewal fees are non-refundable. The
application fees shall be paid at the time of the submission of an application
for a license and are not prorated.
   G.   Location Restrictions For Medical Marijuana Dispensary:
      1.   A Medical Marijuana Dispensary permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet from the following:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
         b.   A library or museum;
         c.   A public playground;
         d.   A child care center;
         e.   A place of worship or religious assembly; or
         f.   A public park, pool or recreation facility;
      2.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in paragraph 1 above is located to the nearest property line of the building or
unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located. The
distance specified shall be measured from any entrance of the school to the
nearest property point of the dispensary.
      3.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary Permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is not allowed by the Town of Locust
Grove Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-4: COMMERCIAL GROWER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement: All operators of a commercial grower
within the Town of Locust Grove must maintain a valid commercial establishment
license from the Oklahoma Department of Health. Each person operating a
commercial grower within the Town of Locust Grove shall provide the town with a
copy of their commercial establishment license issued by the Oklahoma
Department of Health prior to commencing operation and shall further provide
the town with a copy of any renewal of the commercial establishment license not
later than August 25 of each calendar year.
   B.   Permit Requirement: All operators of a commercial grower within the
Town of Locust Grove must obtain a commercial grower permit from the Town of
Locust Grove prior to commencing operation.
      1.   Prior to issuance of a commercial grower permit, the physical
address of the proposed commercial grower will be subject to a property
inspection by an authorized Town Inspector to insure compliance with all Town
Codes. The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by
both the applicant and Town Inspector. The applicant is required to be present
during the inspection. All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply
with all building and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and Town of
Locust Grove.
   C.   Applications For A Commercial Grower Permit: Any person seeking to
obtain a commercial grower permit shall submit a written application to the
Town Clerk on a town prescribed form to include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   Physical address of the establishment;
      3.   Phone number of the establishment;
      4.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      5.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      6.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      7.   The applicant's date of birth;
      8.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      9.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      10.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization;
      11.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity that is not lawfully entitled to possess marijuana; and
      12.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed permit holder's valid
tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted premises.
If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises, a
notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of the
property for a medical marijuana dispensary;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility;
         c.   Evidence of a valid sales tax license for the business if such a
license is required by state law or local regulations;
         d.   Application for sign permit, if any sign is proposed; and
         e.   Any other information reasonably requested by the Town of Locust
Grove to be relevant to the processing or consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Application processing fees for a commercial grower
permit shall be as adopted by resolution of the Locust Grove Board of Trustees.
The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of commercial grower
establishments.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Annual renewal fees of any commercial grower permit shall
be as set forth in the Manual of Fees. The fee shall be used to offset
municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of commercial grower establishments.
   F.   Application fees and annual renewal fees are non-refundable. The
application fees shall be paid at the time of the submission of an application
for a license and are not prorated.
   G.   Location Restrictions For Commercial Grower:
      1.   A commercial grower permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location would be located within one thousand (1,000) feet
from the following:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
         b.   A library or museum;
         c.   A public playground;
         d.   A child care center;
         e.   A place of worship or religious assembly; or
         f.   A public park, pool or recreation facility.
      2.   The distance specified shall be measured from any entrance of the
facility to the nearest property point of the dispensary.
      3.   A Commercial Grower Permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location is not allowed by the Locust Grove Zoning
Ordinance.
   H.   Conditions Of Operation For Commercial Grower:
      1.   All commercial grower facilities shall be located within an entirely
enclosed and secured structure.
      2.   All commercial grower facilities must be constructed in such a
manner that the growing of the medical marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
      3.   All commercial grower facilities shall comply with all building and
fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the Town of Locust Grove.
      4.   All commercial grower facilities must be properly vented so as to
not create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      5.   All commercial grower facilities shall be conducted in a manner that
does not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist
if growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that
is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-5: MARIJUANA PROCESSOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Licensing Requirement:
      1.   All operators of a marijuana processor within the Town of Locust
Grove must maintain a valid commercial establishment license from the Oklahoma
Department of Health. Each person operating a marijuana processor within the
Town of Locust Grove shall provide the town with a copy of their commercial
establishment license issued by the Oklahoma Department of Health prior to
commencing operation and shall further provide the town with a copy of any
renewal of the commercial establishment license not later than August 25 of
each calendar year.
   B.   Town Permit Requirement: All operators of a marijuana processor within
the Town of Locust Grove must obtain a marijuana processor permit from
Development Services prior to commencing operation.
      1.   Prior to issuance of a marijuana processor permit, the physical
address of the proposed marijuana processor will be subject to a property
inspection by an authorized Town Inspector to insure compliance with all Town
Codes. The property inspection will occur at a time scheduled and approved by
both the applicant and Town Inspector. The applicant is required to be present
during the inspection. All structures, equipment and apparatuses shall comply
with all building and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and Town of
Locust Grove.
   C.   Applications For A Marijuana Processor Permit: Any person seeking to
obtain a marijuana processor permit shall submit a written application to the
Town Clerk on a town prescribed form to include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the establishment;
      2.   Physical address of the establishment;
      3.   Phone number of the establishment;
      4.   Operating hours of the establishment;
      5.   The applicant's first name, middle name, last name and suffix if
applicable;
      6.   The applicant's residence address and mailing address;
      7.   The applicant's date of birth;
      8.   The applicant's preferred telephone number and email address;
      9.   An attestation that the information provided by the applicant is
true and correct;
      10.   An application submitted on behalf of a business organization shall
include an attestation that the applicant is authorized to make application on
behalf of the business organization, full name of the business organization,
type of business organization, mailing address for the business organization,
      11.   A statement signed by the applicant not to divert marijuana to any
individual or entity that is not lawfully entitled to possess marijuana; and
      12.   One copy of all of the following:
         a.   All documentation showing the proposed permit holder's valid
tenancy, ownership or other legal interest in the proposed permitted premises.
If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed permitted premises, a
notarized statement from the owner of such property authorizing the use of the
property for a medical marijuana dispensary;
         b.   A valid, unexpired driver's license or state issued ID for all
owners, directors, officers and managers of the proposed facility;
         c.   Evidence of a valid sales tax license for the business if such a
license is required by state law or local regulations;
         d.   Application for sign permit, if any sign is proposed; and
         e.   Any other information reasonably requested by the City of Broken
Arrow to be relevant to the processing or consideration of the application.
   D.   Application Fees: Application processing fees for a marijuana processor
permit shall be as set forth by resolution adopted by the Locust Grove Board of
Trustees. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of marijuana
processor establishments.
   E.   Renewal Fees: Annual renewal fees of any marijuana processor permit
shall be as set forth in the resolution adopted by the Locust Grove Board of
Trustees. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of marijuana
processor establishments.
   F.   Application fees and annual renewal fees are non-refundable. The
application fees shall be paid at the time of the submission of an application
for a permit and are not prorated.
   G.   Location Restrictions For Marijuana Processor:
      1.   A commercial grower permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location would be located within one thousand (1,000) feet
of the following:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
         b.   A library or museum;
         c.   A public playground;
         d.   A child care center;
         e.   A place of worship or religious assembly;
         f.   A public park, pool or recreation facility;
         g.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center; or
         h.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
      2.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the
distances described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line
from the nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described
in paragraph 1 above is located to the nearest property line of the building or
unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located. The
distance specified shall be measured from any entrance of the school to the
nearest property point of the dispensary.
      3.   A Marijuana Processor Permit will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location is not allowed by the Town of Locust Grove Zoning
Ordinance.
   H.   Conditions Of Operation For Commercial Grower:
      1.   All marijuana processor facilities must be constructed in such a
manner that the processing of the medical marijuana cannot be seen by the
public from the public right-of-way.
      2.   All marijuana processor facilities shall be located within an
entirely enclosed and secure structure.
      3.   All marijuana processor facilities shall comply with all building
and fire codes adopted by the State of Oklahoma and the Town of Locust Grove.
      4.   All marijuana processor facilities must be properly vented so as to
not create humidity, mold or other related problems.
      5.   All marijuana processor facilities shall be conducted in a manner
that does not constitute a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to
exist if growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or
vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-6: MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Marijuana storage facilities, other than in a retail outlet, are hereby
allowed within the municipal boundaries of the Town of Locust Grove and must
acquire a business license from the Town Clerk. There shall be a fee as
established by resolution of the Locust Grove Board of Trustees.
   B.   Marijuana Storage Facilities Permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any of the following locations:
      1.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   A library or museum;
      3.   A public playground;
      4.   A child care center;
      5.   A place of worship or religious assembly;
      6.   A public park, pool or recreation facility;
      7.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center; or
      8.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   C.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
paragraph B above is located to the nearest property line of the building or
unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located. The
distance specified shall be measured from any entrance of the school to the
nearest property point of the dispensary.
   D.   A Marijuana Storage Facilities Permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is not allowed by the Town of Locust
Grove Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilator/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off premises.
   F.   Storage facilities must remain locked at all times when not in
operation. The facility must have an electronic security system and have an
appropriate security fence that must be at least eight (8) foot tall around the
facility.
   G.   The storage facility must collect the applicable sales tax on all
sales.
   H.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
Marijuana Storage Facility Permit. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-7: APPROVAL, ISSUANCE, DENIAL AND APPEAL:
   A.   All inspections, review and process of any application under this
chapter shall be completed within ninety (90) days of receipt of a complete
application and all required fees. The Town Clerk shall approve or deny the
permit within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of the completed
application and fees. The processing time may be extended upon written notice
by the Town Clerk for good cause, and any failure to meet the required
processing times shall not result in the automatic grant of the permit. Any
denial must be in writing and must state the reason(s) for denial. Any final
denial of a permit may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that the pendency of an appeal shall not stay or extend the expiration
of any permit. The Town of Locust Grove has no obligation to process or approve
any incomplete application, and any times provided under this chapter shall not
begin to run until the Town of Locust Grove receives a complete application as
determined by the Town Clerk. A determination of a complete application shall
not prohibit the town from requiring supplemental information.
   B.   Renewal applications shall require approval by the Town Clerk and shall
be submitted to and received by the Town Clerk not less than sixty (60) days
prior to the expiration of the annual permit. A permit holder whose permit
expires and for which a complete renewal application has not been received by
the expiration date shall be deemed to have forfeited the permit under this
chapter. The Town of Locust Grove will not accept renewal applications after
the expiration date of the permit. The same requirements that apply to all new
applications for a permit apply to all renewal applications. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-
28-2018)
4-7-8: OPERATIONAL AND BUSINESS PLAN REQUIREMENTS FOR MEDICAL MARIJUANA
DISPENSARY, COMMERCIAL GROWER AND MARIJUANA PROCESSOR PERMIT HOLDERS:
   A.   Business And Operation Plan: All applicants for a Medical Marijuana
Dispensary Permit, Commercial Grower Permit and/or Marijuana Processor Permit
shall submit a business and operations plan with their application showing in
detail the medical marijuana dispensary's, commercial grower's and/or marijuana
processor's proposed plan of operation, including without limitation, the
following:
      1.   A description of the type of facility proposed and the anticipated
or actual number of employees;
      2.   A description by category of all products to be sold;
      3.   A list of Material Safety Data Sheets for all nutrients, pesticides
and other chemicals proposed for use in the facility;
      4.   A description and plan of all equipment and methods that will be
employed to stop any impact to adjacent uses, including enforceable assurances
that no odor will be detectable from outside of the permitted premises;
      5.   A plan for the disposal of marijuana and related byproducts that
will be used in the facility; and
      6.   A security plan which shall include a general description of the
security systems and confirmation that those systems will meet state
requirements and be approved by the state prior to commencing operations.
   B.   Operational Requirements: All permit holders shall at all times comply
with the following operational requirements, which the Town of Locust Grove may
review and amend from time to time as it determines reasonable.
      1.   All permitted premises shall comply with all respective applicable
codes of the local zoning, building and health departments. The facility must
hold a valid local permit and Commercial Establishment License for the type of
facility intended to be carried out on the permitted property. The facility
operator, owner or licensee must have documentation available that local and
state sales tax requirements, including holding any licenses, if applicable,
are satisfied.
      2.   No permit holder shall be permitted to operate from a moveable,
mobile or transitory location except as allowed under the Oklahoma State
Department of Health rules that authorize and license the transportation of
medical marijuana. No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be allowed to
enter into the permitted premises without a parent or legal guardian.
      3.   All activities of a medical marijuana dispensary, commercial grower
and marijuana processor, including without limitation, distribution, growth,
cultivation, or the sale of marijuana and all other related activity permitted
under the permit holder's license or permit must occur indoors. The facility's
operation and design shall minimize any impact to adjacent uses, including the
control of any odor by maintaining and operating an air filtration system so
that no odor is detectable outside the permitted premises.
      4.   Waste Disposal: The permit holder, owner and operator of the
facility shall use lawful methods in controlling waste or by-products from any
activities allowed under the permit.
      5.   The Town of Locust Grove may impose such reasonable terms and
conditions on a medical marijuana dispensary, commercial grower and marijuana
processor as may be necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
and to obtain compliance with the requirements of this chapter and applicable
law. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-9: MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL USE:
   A.   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use are
required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk.
   B.   All medical marijuana grown at home by a qualified patient or caregiver
patient medical marijuana license holders can only be grown on residential real
property owned by the patient license holder or on rented real property for
which the patient license holder has the property owner's written permission to
grow medical marijuana on the property.
   C.   All homegrown medical marijuana plants must be grown so that the
marijuana is not accessible to a member of the general public and is only
accessible to the patient or caregiver. If grown outdoors, it must be grown
behind an opaque fence that is at least eight (8) feet in height. The marijuana
plants must be completely enclosed by the fence and the fence must be secured
with a lock and key. No marijuana plants may be visible from any street
adjacent to the property.
   D.   Growing medical marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-10: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The smell of noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
medical marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana
license shall constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Smoking and vaping marijuana shall be prohibited on all city property
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
   C.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Municipal Issued Marijuana License;
Hearing:
      1.   The Board of Trustees or designee shall revoke or suspend a license
issued under this chapter on any of the following grounds: violation of town
ordinance, state law or Department of Health regulations governing medical
marijuana.
         a.   The license was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement
of a material fact or a fact concerning the applicant was not disclosed at the
time of the application, and such fact would have constituted just cause for
refusal to issue the license.
      2.   Prior to suspension or revocation the permittee shall be given
notice of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the Board of Trustees or designee. If an employee has been
designated by the Board of Trustees, such designee shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees together with a recommendation as to whether the license
should be suspended or revoked.
      3.   Revocation of any Department of Health Marijuana License shall
result in the immediate revocation of any town issued permit under this
chapter.
   D.   Any person or entity applying for or issued a permit by the Town of
Locust Grove under this chapter shall comply with all State law and Department
of Health rules and regulations. (Ord. 2018-03, 10-28-2018)
4-7-11: PENALTY:
Any person, persons or entity violating any provisions of this chapter, either
by doing anything which is prohibited or by failing to do anything which is
commanded, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus
court costs. Each separate violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense. Where a lesser fine is mandated by state law, then the lesser
amount of fine shall be applicable. (Ord. 2019-04, 10-14-2019)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Abandoned Containers
5-1-2: Enforcement Provisions
5-1-3: Penalty
5-1-1: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
Any person, firm, or corporation who abandons or discards in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door
which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or who,
being the owner, lessee, or manager of such place, knowingly permits such
abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest to remain in such
condition shall be deemed negligent as a matter of law and shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
5-1-2: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is the intent and purpose of the County Health Officer to enforce
the provisions of 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-1101 - 1-1134. (Ord. 2016-06,
6-13-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere
with the County Health Officer or any other officer charged with the
enforcement of the health ordinances of the Town.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or
omit to comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or
regulation of the County Board of Health or any officer charged with
enforcement of such order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (Ord.
2016-06, 6-13-2016)
5-1-3: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by fine, and any person, firm
or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 8-122)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Powers Of Town
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Certain Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-2-4: Nuisances Prohibited
5-2-5: Persons Liable
5-2-6: Lapse Of Time; Effect
5-2-7: Remedial Action
5-2-8: Abatement Of Nuisances Generally
5-2-9: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-2-10: Abatement Of Health Nuisances
5-2-11: Procedures Cumulative
5-2-12: Penalty
Graffiti Eradication
5-2-13: Title
5-2-14: Legislative Findings
5-2-15: Purpose And Intent
5-2-16: Definitions
5-2-17: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
5-2-18: Application Of Graffiti Prohibited; Offense; Penalty
5-2-19: Allowing Graffiti To Remain On Private Property
5-2-20: Removal Of Graffiti From Private Property
5-2-1: POWERS OF TOWN:
   A.   As authorized in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the Town is empowered
to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply outside of its corporate limits. (2014 Code § 8-108; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   The Board of Trustees shall have power to abate any nuisance described
in the provisions of this chapter by causing any lot or piece of ground to be
filled or drained, and any animal or vegetable refuse matter or any putrid or
unwholesome substances to be removed and any cellar, stable, henhouse, dog
kennel, or any place where animals are kept or any toilet or privy vault to be
thoroughly cleaned and put in good sanitary condition. (2018 Code)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
NUISANCE: As defined in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 1, unlawfully doing an
act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any thing or condition which either:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting agricultural
activities.
PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" in this section.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire community
or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or three (3) or more
properties under separate ownership in the vicinity of such nuisance, although
the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal. (2014 Code § 8-101; amd. 2018 Code)
5-2-3: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this Code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Liquor Violations: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
alcoholic beverages in violation of State law or the ordinances of the Town, or
the keeping of a place where alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale, or
furnished in violation of State law or the ordinances of the Town.
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects;
or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or
distributed.
      4.   Bawdy, Disorderly Houses:
         a.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards,
slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
         b.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
         c.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of State law
or Town ordinance are practiced or carried on. This shall include the repeated
use of real property or structure thereon to commit acts which result in a
felony conviction under the Oklahoma Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances
Act.
      5.   Noisy Conditions: The continued making of loud or unusual noises,
music or sounds, or strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises.
      6.   Interfering With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes with
wireless reception by others.
      7.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      8.   Water Flowing, Ice Or Snow Falling Upon Streets: Permitting water or
other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk as to endanger the public safety.
      9.   Stagnant Water Bodies: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which insects breed or are likely to breed, or which are
so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety.
      10.   Conditions Attracting Pests: Rank weeks or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be,
breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease causing germs, and the
premises on which such exist.
      11.   Garbage Accumulations: Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure,
or decayed or decaying vegetable matter left, kept or maintained in such
condition as to endanger the public health.
      12.   Dangerous Structures:
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the Town or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      13.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      14.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      15.   Dangerous Businesses: Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      16.   Offensive Premises:
         a.   Any unclean, foul, leaking, broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in the Town.
         b.   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises; or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates.
      17.   Animal Houses And Noises:
         a.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the Town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation.
         b.   The keeping in violation of title 6, chapter 4 of this Code of
any dog kennels within the Town for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall
become offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise
made by the animals therein contained.
         c.   The keeping of any hog pen within the limits of the Town in
violation of this Code.
      18.   Animal Hides: Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any
exposed or open place within the limits of the Town.
      19.   Sewer Systems:
         a.   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance.
         b.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the Town.
      20.   Bagworms: Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants
within the Town. (2014 Code § 8-102; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Enumeration: The enumeration in subsection A of this section of certain
public nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms. (2014 Code § 8-102)
5-2-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the Town or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the Town. (2014 Code §
8-103)
5-2-5: PERSONS LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (2014 Code § 8-
104)
5-2-6: LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (2014 Code § 8-105)
5-2-7: REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the Town in accordance with law or ordinance. (2014 Code § 8-
106)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15; or (2014 Code § 8-107)
         b.   By the Town or officer authorized thereto by law or ordinance.
(2014 Code § 8-107; amd. 2018 Code)
5-2-8: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   Summary Abatement: Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a
grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that
circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the Town or other
appropriate officer or agency of the Town government to take immediate and
proper action summarily to abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the
danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement. (2014
Code § 8-109)
   B.   Statement Of Nuisance; Recommended Abatement: The Code Enforcement
Officer or designee may submit a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as
defined by the ordinances of the Town or law, and a request or recommendation
that it be abated. (2014 Code § 8-109; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Determination Of Nuisance Existence; Notice: The Town or its designee
shall determine if a nuisance exists as defined by the ordinances of the Town
or law. If a nuisance does in fact exist, Town personnel shall direct the owner
or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance by: 1) certified mail;
or 2) publication if the owner cannot be so served or found, to abate the
nuisance within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
   D.   Abatement By Town; Costs: If such peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within
the specified time, or if the persons responsible authorize the Town to abate
the nuisance, the Town shall direct the appropriate officer to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by
50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The Town shall send a statement of the cost of
such summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing
the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and
addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the Town
collectible as other debts may be collected.
   E.   Appeals: The determination of the existence of a nuisance and order to
abate it, as made by the Town, may be appealed by the occupant or owner or
person causing the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in writing with the
Town within the period of time specified in the notice for abatement of the
nuisance. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the matter to be placed on the
agenda of the Town Board of Trustees for final determination with appropriate
notice of the hearing provided to the person requesting the appeal. (2014 Code
§ 8-109)
5-2-9: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Pursuant to 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17, nothing herein contained
shall be construed to abridge the rights of citizens of the Town to bring and
maintain actions in the proper courts for the abatement of private nuisances or
those specially injurious to them. (2014 Code § 8-111; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance,
the Town may bring suit in the District Court. (2014 Code § 8-114)
5-2-10: ABATEMENT OF HEALTH NUISANCES:
   A.   Order To Abate: Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-1011, the Town shall have the authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the Town to remove from such premises, at
his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable. Such
order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant
of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the Town or by a police
officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the
owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the State. If the premises is
unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is
outside the State, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the
premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a
general circulation in the Town.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By Town; Costs: If there is not compliance
with the order, the Town may cause the order to be executed and complied with,
and the cost thereof shall be certified and the cost of removing or abating
such nuisance shall be charged to the owner or occupant, enforceable as a lien
or any other method allowed by law or ordinance. (2014 Code § 8-110)
5-2-11: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The Town
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance. (2014 Code § 8-115)
5-2-12: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by fine, and any person, firm
or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 8-122)
GRAFFITI ERADICATION
5-2-13: TITLE:
This chapter and sections shall be known and may be cited as the Locust Grove
Graffiti Eradication Ordinance. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
5-2-14: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The Board of Trustees of the Town of Locust Grove hereby makes the following
findings:
   A.   The unsightly graffiti on public and private property within the town
is detrimental to the beauty of our town;
   B.   That graffiti on public and private property within the town is often
related to criminal street gang activity, with graffiti being used to convey
information to gang members and mark gang territory;
   C.   That graffiti often provides a catalyst for gang-related criminal
violence within the town;
   D.   That graffiti constitutes a growing blight on and a substantial
detriment to the health and safety of the resident of our town; and
   E.   That by reason of the foregoing findings, graffiti constitutes a public
nuisance to our town. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
State law reference:
   Authority to define, prevent, remove and abate nuisances, 11 O.S. 22-121.
5-2-15: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the prevention and removal of
graffiti within the town. The intent of the Board of Trustees is to prevent and
remove a public nuisance that is a growing blight on and a substantial
detriment to the health, safety and general welfare of our community and its
inhabitants. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
5-2-16: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this subchapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall
have the meanings indicated:
ADVERTISING: Any letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing,
picture, writing, or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an
owner or occupant of the property, or an agent of such owner or occupant, for
the purpose of promoting products or services or conveying information to the
public.
APPLIES GRAFFITI, APPLY GRAFFITI, OR APPLYING GRAFFITI: The act of drawing,
painting, chiseling, scratching or etching graffiti on public or private
property within the town.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Public Works Department.
GRAFFITI: Means, without limitation, any letter, word, name, number, symbol,
slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of any kind visible
to the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched or etched on a rock,
tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building or other structure; provided,
however, that this definition shall not include advertising or any other
letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing,
or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the
property, an occupant of the property, or by an authorized agent for such owner
or occupant. Depending on the circumstances, graffiti is classified as
vandalism or malicious mischief, as defined herein.
MALICIOUS MISCHIEF: May include an act of vandalism or another act that defaces
or damages public or private property. For instance, malicious mischief may
include destroying or damaging public or private landscaping; dumping on public
or private property; damaging or defacing public infrastructure; defacing or
stealing road signs.
OCCUPANT: Any person who is a tenant of property, or any person in actual
physical possession of property.
OWNER: Any person shown by the records of the county clerk's office as the
owner of a fee simple interest in property.
REMOVAL, REMOVE, OR REMOVED: When used in relation to the eradication of
graffiti, means the act of removing graffiti or masking the presence of
graffiti on a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building or other
structure.
VANDALISM: Generally considered as any intentional act that defaces or damages
property. Vandalism may include: graffiti, keying a vehicle, slashing tires,
egging a house or vehicle, paintballing a house or vehicle. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-
13-2023)
5-2-17: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The Board of Trustees hereby declares that graffiti on public or private
property within the town constitutes a public nuisance to the detriment of the
town and its inhabitants and visitors. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
5-2-18: APPLICATION OF GRAFFITI PROHIBITED; OFFENSE; PENALTY:
   A.   No person shall apply graffiti to public or private property within the
town.
   B.   Graffiti is a misdemeanor or a felony, depending on the circumstances.
If the defacement, or destruction causes a loss that has an aggregate value of
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), it is classified as a misdemeanor.
If the damage has a loss that has an aggregate value of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or more, the crime is a felony.
   C.   Any person convicted of the offense of applying graffiti to public or
private property within the town shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), excluding costs, or imprisonment not to
exceed six (6) months in the county jail or fine and costs and imprisonment.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Police
Department. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
State law reference:
   Penalty for ordinance violations, 11 O.S. 14-111; 21 O.S. 1760.
5-2-19: ALLOWING GRAFFITI TO REMAIN ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall allow graffiti to remain on private property within the
town longer than twenty (20) days after receiving a notice to remove graffiti.
   B.   Graffiti allowed to remain on private property within the town longer
than twenty (20) days from the date of the notice to remove graffiti shall be
subject to removal by the town. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
5-2-20: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The Director may cause graffiti to be removed from private property located
within the town in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Removal Of Graffiti With Or Without Consent Of Owner; Procedure:
      1.   The property owner, tenant and/or occupant, if any, may give their
written consent to the town authorizing removal of the graffiti. By giving such
written consent, the owner and the tenant and/or occupant each waive the right
to notice and a hearing as otherwise required by this section;
      2.   If the consent of the property owner, tenant and/or occupant, if
any, to remove graffiti from the property cannot be obtained, the director may
remove the graffiti without such consent pursuant to the procedures set forth
in this section;
         3.   To remove graffiti from property without the consent of the
property owner, tenant and/or occupant, if any, at least ten (10) days’ notice
shall be given by mail directed to the address shown by the current year's tax
rolls in the county treasurer's office. Notice to the tenant and/or occupant,
if any, shall be given by mail directed to the property address. The notice
shall order the property owner, tenant and/or occupant, if any, to remove
graffiti from the property and shall further state that unless such work is
performed within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice the work shall be
done by the city. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner,
tenant and/or occupant, if any, the Director shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee(s). In addition, notice shall be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property at least one time not less than
ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the town. Any accumulations of
graffiti on the property occurring within one year from and after the date of
the notice may be summarily abated by the town without a hearing and further
prior notice to the property owner, tenant and/or occupant, if any, except by
posting of notices at least one time on the property not less than two (2)
business days prior to such summary abatement;
      4.   A hearing may be held by the Board of Trustees to determine whether
the accumulation of graffiti on the property has caused the property to become
detrimental or a hazard to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public
and the community; and
      5.   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property, the public, and the community would
be benefitted by removal of such conditions, the Director or designee may enter
onto the property for the removal of the graffiti thereon.
   B.   The municipality and its officers, employees or agents shall not be
liable for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of graffiti
performed pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   C.   Right Of Appeal Of Order To Remove Graffiti: The property owner and the
tenant, if any, shall have a right to appeal to the Board of Trustees any order
of the Director. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the Town Clerk within ten (10) business days after the administrative
order is rendered.
   D.   Summary Abatement: If a notice is given by the town to a property owner
and tenant, if any, ordering graffiti to be removed from property within the
town limits in accordance with the procedures provided for in this section, any
subsequent accumulations of graffiti on the property occurring within a one-
year period may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner shall be posted at least one time on the property not less than
two (2) business days prior to such summary abatement. This paragraph shall not
apply if the records of the county clerk show that the ownership and/or tenancy
of the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to this
section.
   E.   Cost Of Removal Of Graffiti: Removal of graffiti by the town pursuant
to the provisions of this section shall be performed at the sole expense of the
Town. In removing the graffiti, the town shall restore the property as nearly
as possible to the condition as it existed immediately prior to the graffiti
being placed on the property. (Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
State law reference:
   Graffiti removal, 11 O.S. 22-112.2
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Prohibited Deposits Of Rubbish, Weeds, Grass And Trash
5-3-3: Burning Rubbish And Trash Prohibited
5-3-4: Accumulation Of Trash And Growth Of Weeds Prohibited
5-3-5: Reports Of Violations
5-3-6: Abatement Procedure
5-3-7: Work Done By Town Or Contract; Costs; Appeals
5-3-8: Maintenance And Upkeep By Adjoining Property Owners
5-3-9: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CLEANING: The removal of trash or to cut or mow weeds or grass from property.
EXCESSIVE WEED, GRASS, AND OTHER SUCH VEGETATION GROWTH: Such vegetation that
is growing to a height of twelve inches (12") or more.
LITTER: Any flaming or glowing substances except those which by law may be
placed upon highway rights-of-way, any substance which may cause a fire and any
other used, disposed of, or abandoned bottles, cans, garbage, street cleanings,
appliances, paper wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, yard clippings, wood,
grass, bedding, or wastepaper. The term "litter" also means to place, throw,
drop, dump, deposit, discard, or scatter any used or disposed of object or
substance that is referred to in this definition.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the County
Treasurer.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, and all other wastes generated by a trade, business,
industry, building operation, or household.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded, or abandoned.
WEED:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of such weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd.
2018 Code)
5-3-2: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS OF RUBBISH, WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush, or any other
refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, or in any ditch or
watercourse, or upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in this
Town. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
5-3-3: BURNING RUBBISH AND TRASH PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to burn refuse, including all kinds of rubbish and trash, with
the Town limits, except as may be permitted in the Town Fire Code, and there
shall be compliance with all applicable provisions of the Oklahoma Clean Air
Act and the Air Pollution Control Rules adopted hereunder. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-
2016; amd. 2018 Code)
5-3-4: ACCUMULATION OF TRASH AND GROWTH OF WEEDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or any other person in possession or control
of any lot, tract, or parcel of land situated wholly or in part within the
corporate limits of the Town to allow trash to accumulate or weeds to grow or
stand upon such premises or along paved and/or unpaved streets, alleys or
public easements adjacent to such premises, and it shall be the duty of such
owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
5-3-5: REPORTS OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any officer or employee of the Town who discovers an accumulation of
trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the Town shall report the condition to the Code
Enforcement Officer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises
appears to be:
      1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and
the community;
      2.   A hazard to traffic; or
      3.   A fire hazard to property.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer or any other person authorized by the
Board of Trustees shall, on a citizen's complaint or upon his/her own notice,
inspect subject property. If his/her inspection reveals a violation of one or
more of the conditions in subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section, he/she
shall report his/her findings to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-
2016)
5-3-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
Upon receiving the report provided in section
5-3-5 of this chapter, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the Board of Trustees or designee shall cause property within
the Town limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in
accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice to the owner of the
private property by mail of removal at least ten (10) days by mail at the
address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the County Treasurer's Office
before the Town takes action. It shall constitute sufficient notice when, at
the time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
mailee. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
the notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the Town, and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the Town.
      2.   If such person or entity cannot be found within ten (10) days prior
to any hearing or action by the Town, then a copy of the notice may be served
by posting a copy in some conspicuous place on the premises or by publication,
as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one time not less than ten
(10) days prior to any hearing or action by the Town. If the Code Enforcement
Officer anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance, the notice, whether by
mail, posting, or publication, shall state that any accumulations of trash or
excessive weed or grass growth on the owner's property occurring within six (6)
months from and after the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the
Code Enforcement Officer; that the costs of such abatement shall be assessed
against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to secure
such payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner.
      3.   The property owner may give written consent to the Town authorizing
the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving written
consent, the owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the Town.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   A hearing may be held by the Code Enforcement Officer to determine
whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused
the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the
property.
      2.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and
order provided in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the Code
Enforcement Officer, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting
the determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall schedule a meeting with the Board of Trustees at a
time and place set by the Board. The Board of Trustees shall conduct such
hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five (5) days after
receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not later than fifteen
(15) days after such receipt. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
      3.   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the Code Enforcement
Officer, after such hearing, shall determine that the trash, weeds or grass
constitute a growing blight or a substantial detriment to health and safety of
the residents of the community, he/she shall file, in writing, findings of
fact, and order that such nuisance be abated within ten (10) days, and shall
cause such findings and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of
the hearing. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Summary Abatement: Upon finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the agents of the Town are granted the right of
entry on the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the Town.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the Town and stating that the Town claims a
lien on the property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
   D.   Costs Of Cleaning And Mowing: The Code Enforcement Officer shall
determine the actual cost of such cleaning and mowing and any other expenses as
may be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost of notice and
mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward by mail to the property owner
specified above a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the
cleaning and mowing is done by the Town, the cost to the property owner for the
cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance,
and equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing is done on a private
contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
   E.   Lien On Property: If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from
the date of the mailing of the statement as stated in subsection D of this
section, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the
amount of the cost to the County Treasurer and the same shall be levied on the
property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by
law. Until fully paid, the cost and interest thereon shall be the personal
obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is certified
to the County Treasurer. Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien.
   F.   Subsequent Accumulation Of Trash And Weed And Grass Growth: If a notice
is given by the Code Enforcement Officer to a party owner ordering the property
within the Town limits to be cleaned of trash and/or weeds or grass to be cut
or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided for in this section, any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a
nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the Town shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days
after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided in subsections D and E of this section. This subsection shall not
apply if the records of the County Clerk show that the property was transferred
after notice was given pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   G.   Property Zoned For Agricultural Purposes: The provisions of this
section shall not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes under the jurisdiction of the State Corporation Commission. However,
the Code Enforcement Officer may cause the removal of weeds or trash from
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of
this section but only if such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are
located in or within ten (10) yards of the public rights-of-way at
intersections. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
5-3-7: WORK DONE BY TOWN OR CONTRACT; COSTS; APPEALS:
   A.   Entry Powers:
      1.   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard as specified in section
5-3-5 of this chapter and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, the Code Enforcement Officer or designee is granted the
right of entry on the property to remove trash, mow weeds or grass, and perform
necessary duties as a governmental function.
      2.   The work ordered to be performed under section
5-3-6 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the Town under
supervision of the Code Enforcement Officer or it may be let by contract in the
manner for letting other contracts. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
   B.   Determination And Assessments Of Costs: Upon completion of the work
ordered to be performed under this section, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
prepare a report on the cost thereof. Such report may be itemized as to each
tract of property involved as follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation,
fuel and supplies, cost of notice and other allowable costs. The Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward a statement and demand payment of the total cost by
mail to the owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax rolls
in the Office of the County Treasurer. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd. 2018
Code)
   C.   Enforcement Official; Appeals: The Board of Trustees hereby designates
the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee to carry out the duties of the
Board of Trustees in this chapter. The property owner shall have a right of
appeal to the Board of Trustees from any order of the Code Enforcement Officer.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer within ten (10) days after the order is rendered. (Ord. 2016-
06, 6-13-2016)
5-3-8: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP BY ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   The owner of any property abutting or adjoining any street of the Town
shall mow and keep mowed any grass, weeds, or similar vegetation in that area
between the roadway and owner's property line and between sidewalks and the
roadway as well as between the edge of any street and the right-of-way for such
street. The premises shall be maintained in compliance to applicable Town Codes
and regulations. Such vegetation shall not be allowed to exceed a height of
twelve inches (12") above the ground.
   B.   Any owner who fails, refuses, or neglects to mow and keep mowed
vegetation as provided in subsection A of this section after receiving at least
ten (10) days' notice from the Code Enforcement Officer, or his/her designee,
to do so is guilty of an offense against the Town and subject to a fine in
accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every day the owner fails, refuses, or neglects to mow and
keep mowed such vegetation after expiration of the ten (10) days' notice shall
be and is a separate offense. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
5-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or who shall allow any premises occupied to become unsanitary shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provide in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Prohibited Burning
5-4-3: Permitted Burning
5-4-4: Conditions And Requirements Of Permitted Burning
5-4-5: Consequences Of Burning
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Any substance which will readily burn and shall include
those substances which, although generally considered incombustible, are or may
be included in the mass of the material burned or to be burned.
DOMESTIC AND BUSINESS REFUSE: Grass, leaves and branch trimmings. The term does
not include kitchen garbage, cardboard boxes, packaging, clothing, lumber,
tires, nonwood construction debris, furniture, carpet, electrical wire, nor any
other refuse generated from a residence or business.
LAND CLEARING OPERATION: The uprooting, cutting or clearing of vegetation in
preparation for the construction of buildings, the development of residential,
commercial, agricultural or industrial properties and for the construction and
maintenance of rights-of-way. The term does not include the clearing of
vegetation such as trimmings, fallen limbs, branches, leaves or other wastes
from routine property maintenance activities.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of combustible materials in such a manner that the
products of combustion are emitted directly to the outside atmosphere.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, domestic refuse and all other wastes generated by a
trade, business, industry, building operation or household. (2014 Code § 8-113)
5-4-2: PROHIBITED BURNING:
The open burning of refuse and combustible materials is prohibited and unlawful
within the corporate limits of the Town unless conducted in strict compliance
with the conditions and requirements as set forth in section
5-4-3 of this chapter. (2014 Code § 8-113)
5-4-3: PERMITTED BURNING:
   A.   Fire Training: Open burning is allowed for fires purposely set for the
instruction and training of public firefighting personnel; provided, that
authorization has been requested from the local Fire Chief and at least ten
(10) working days prior to any burning or that written authorization has been
received prior to such burning.
   B.   Recreational And Ceremonial Fires: Open burning is allowed for
campfires and other fires used solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial
occasions or noncommercial preparation of food.
   C.   Land Management And Land Clearing Operations: Open burning is allowed
for the following land management and land clearing operations:
      1.   Fires purposely set to forest, crop or range lands for a specific
reason in the management of forests, crops or game, in accordance with
practices recommended by the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation, the
Oklahoma Department of Agriculture and the United States Forest Service.
      2.   Fires purposely set for land clearing operations if conducted at
least five hundred feet (500') upwind of any occupied residence other than
those located on the premises on which the burning is conducted. (2014 Code §
8-113; amd. 2018 Code)
5-4-4: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF PERMITTED BURNING:
Open burning of grass/leaves and tree trimmings and other nonpetroleum based
combustible material may be conducted as allowed in section
5-4-3 of this chapter only if the following conditions and requirements are
met: (2014 Code § 8-113; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   No public nuisance is or will be created.
   B.   The burning is controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created as a
result of air contaminants being emitted. (2014 Code § 8-113)
   C.   The burning is conducted so that the contaminants do not adversely
affect the ambient air quality of the Town and shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the Oklahoma Clean Air Act and the Air Pollution Control Rules
adopted hereunder. (2014 Code § 8-113; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   The initial burning shall begin only between three (3) hours after
sunrise and three (3) hours before sunset and additional fuel shall not be
intentionally added to the fire at times outside these limits. This requirement
does not apply to the open burning allowed under subsections
5-4-3A, B and C1 of this chapter.
   E.   At least two (2) business days prior to the burning as authorized in
subsection
5-4-3C of this chapter, there shall be a permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
designee authorizing the burning. No burning shall be permitted without having
first obtained the permit as provided herein. The permit shall only be valid
and effective seven (7) days from its date of issue, at which time the permit
shall expire. The burning must occur during the effective period of the permit
and prior to the expiration of the permit. Any burning which occurs after the
date the permit expires shall be an unlawful burning. No fee shall be charged
for the permit. (2014 Code § 8-113)
5-4-5: CONSEQUENCES OF BURNING:
Persons who conduct open burning in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter are not exempt or excused for the consequences, damages or injuries
that may result from such conduct, nor are they exempt or excused from
complying with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and orders. (2014 Code §
8-113)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by fine, and any person, firm
or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 8-122)
CHAPTER 5
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title And Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Report Of Dangerous Building; Hearing
5-5-4: Condemnation And Abatement Procedure; Appeals
5-5-5: Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
5-5-6: Restoration Of Premises
5-5-7: Demolition Of Landmarks And Historic Structures
5-5-8: Violation; Penalty
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is entitled the TOWN OF LOCUST GROVE DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for public health, safety
and protection from the nuisance of dilapidated buildings. (2018 Code)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BOARDING AND SECURING AND BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding, or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A. A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public;
   B.   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public;
   C.   A structure which is determined by the Board of Trustees or Code
Enforcement Officer to be an unsecured building more than three (3) times
within any twelve (12) month period;
   D.   A structure which has been "boarded and secured", as defined in this
section, for more than thirty six (36) consecutive months; or
   E.   A structure declared by the Board of Trustees to constitute a public
nuisance.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the County
Treasurer.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: A structure that, due to lack of necessary repairs,
is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare
of the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or equitable
owner thereof or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner and into which there
are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked windows,
broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the roof,
broken basement or cellar hatchway, unlocked basement or cellar hatchway, or
other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an unauthorized entry
into the structure. (2018 Code)
5-5-3: REPORT OF DANGEROUS BUILDING; HEARING:
   A.   Any officer or employee of the Town who discovers or receives a report
of a dilapidated building shall report it to the Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Upon receiving the report prescribed by subsection A of this section or
upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall request that the Town Clerk-Treasurer place upon the
agenda of the Board of Trustees for hearing and consideration at any
appropriate date of meeting thereof, such as will permit giving the notices
prescribed by statutory law. (2018 Code)
5-5-4: CONDEMNATION AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; APPEALS:
   A.   Procedure: The Board of Trustees may cause dilapidated buildings within
the Town limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      1.   Notices: At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be
torn down or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the
Board of Trustees holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property to be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by
mail to the property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls
in the Office of County Treasurer. Written notice also shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the Office of the County Clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the Town shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor the mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication as defined in 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102. The notice may be published once not less than
ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the Town pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
      2.   Hearing: A hearing shall be held by the Board of Trustees to
determine if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the general public and the community or if the
property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
      3.   Decision And Action; Costs:
         a.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the Board of Trustees may cause the dilapidated
building to be torn down and removed. The Board of Trustees shall fix
reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with
the County Clerk describing the property, the findings of the Town at the
hearing, and stating that the Town claims a lien on the property for the
destruction and removal costs and that such costs are the personal obligation
of the property owner from and after the date of filing of the notice. The
agents of the Town are granted the right of entry on the property for the
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the Town if
the work is not performed by the property owner within dates fixed by the Board
of Trustees.
         b.   The Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling
and removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs by mail to
the property owner.
         c.   In addition to the above, a copy of the statement shall be mailed
to any mortgage holder at the address provided in subsection A1 of this
section. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner
or mortgage holder, the Town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. If the Town dismantles or removes any dilapidated
buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance, and equipment required for the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
buildings is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
         d.   When payment is made to the Town for costs incurred, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to
the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made
within six (6) months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the
owner of such property, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. Once certified to
the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County Treasurer except
as otherwise provided in this section. The costs shall be levied on the
property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by
law. Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the notice
of dilapidation and lien is filed with the County Clerk.
         e.   In addition to the above, the cost and the interest thereon shall
be a lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed
with the County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem
taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County
Treasurer shall collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of
property. The fee shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the
County. If the County Treasurer and the Town agree that the County Treasurer is
unable to collect the assessment, the Town may pursue a civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an action in
personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien
against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest
and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment
lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
   B.   Enforcement Officer; Appeals: The Board of Trustees hereby designates
the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee to perform the duties of the
Board of Trustees under this section. The property owner shall have the right
of appeal to the Board of Trustees from any order of the Code Enforcement
Officer or his/her designee. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written
notice of appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is rendered. (2018 Code)
5-5-5: BOARDING AND SECURING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Authorization To Board And Secure: After a building has been declared
dilapidated, as provided in section
5-5-4 of this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal
of a dilapidated building, the Board of Trustees may authorize that such a
building be boarded and secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant
and unfit for human occupancy, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
structure to be demolished pursuant to section
5-5-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Cleaning Trash And Weeds: The Board of Trustees may cause the premises
on which an unsecured building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in
accordance with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111.
   C.   Procedure For Boarding And Securing: The Board of Trustees may cause an
unsecured building to be boarded and secured in accordance with the following
procedures:
      1.   Before the Board of Trustees orders such action, at least ten (10)
days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be
given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provide in section
5-5-4 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner
or mortgage holder, the Town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor the
mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-102. Such notice shall be published one time, not less than ten (10)
days prior to any hearing or action by the Town pursuant to the provisions of
this section. If the Board of Trustees anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection C8 of this section,
the notice shall state:
         a.   That any subsequent need for boarding and securing the building
within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding and securing of the
building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by the
Board of Trustees; and
         b.   That the costs of such boarding and securing shall be assessed
against the owner; and
         c.   That a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such
payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage
holder.
      2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the Town
authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the
payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving written consent, the owner
waives any right the owner has to a hearing with the Board of Trustees.
      3.   If the property owner does not give written consent to such actions,
a hearing may be held by the Board of Trustees to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety, or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with
a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of section
5-5-4 of this chapter. In making such determination, the Board of Trustees
shall apply the following standard:
The Board of Trustees may order the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building when the boarding and securing thereof would make such building less
available for transient occupation, decrease a fire hazard created by such
building, or decrease the hazard that such building would constitute an
attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required determination, the
Board of Trustees may order the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building.
      4.   After the Board of Trustees orders the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of
unsecured building and lien with the County Clerk describing the property,
stating the findings of the Town at the hearing at which such building was
determined to unsecured, and stating that the Town claims a lien on the
property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such
costs are the personal obligation for the property owner from and after the
date of filing the notice.
      5.   Pursuant to the order of the Board of Trustees, the agents of the
Town are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the Town.
      6.   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the Board
of Trustees shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of
the notice and mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of
the actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building and a demand for payment of such costs by mail to any property owners
and mortgage holders as provided in section
5-5-4 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of the statement costs to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the Town shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. If the Town boards and secures any
unsecured building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual
cost of the labor, materials and equipment required for the performance of such
actions. If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      7.   a. When payment is made to the Town for costs incurred, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to
the actual costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not
made within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the statement to the
owner of such property, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the costs to the County Treasurer. Once certified to
the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County Treasurer except
as otherwise provided in this section. At the time of collection, the County
Treasurer shall collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of
property, and such fee shall be deposited to the General Fund of the County.
The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer
as are other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and the
interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from
and after the date the notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the
County Clerk.
         b.   In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
costs and interest are fully paid. If the County Treasurer and the Town agree
that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the Town may
pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon
by an action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to
foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created
pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
      8.   If the Board of Trustees causes a structure within the Town limits
to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing the
building within a six (6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be
summarily boarded and secured without further prior notice to the property
owner or the mortgage holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and
securing, the Town shall notify the property owner and the mortgage holder of
the boarding and securing and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that
the property owner may request an appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within
ten (10) days after the mailing of the notice. The notice and hearing shall be
as provided in subsection C1 of this section. Unless otherwise determined at
the hearing, the costs of such boarding and securing shall be determined and
collected as provided in subsections C6 and C7 of this section.
      9.   The Board of Trustees may determine that a building is unsecured and
order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner provided in this
section even though such building has not been declared by the Board of
Trustees to be dilapidated.
   D.   Board Of Trustees Agent Designated; Right Of Appeal: The Town hereby
designates the Code Enforcement Officer or her/his designee to carry out the
duties of the Board of Trustees specified in this section. The property owner
or mortgage holder shall have a right of appeal to the Board of Trustees from
any order of the Code Enforcement Officer or her/his designee. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
within ten (10) days after the order is rendered.
   E.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (2018 Code)
5-5-6: RESTORATION OF PREMISES:
In all cases in which a house or building has been removed before the effective
date hereof or a house or building is torn down or demolished pursuant to order
of the State Fire Marshal or one of his assistants or the Sheriff of the County
or the Fire Chief as provided by State law or as provided in this chapter and
in which any of the following conditions exist, then the owner or owners of the
lot or lots and the person, firm, or corporation who tore down the house or
building shall immediately comply with the provisions of this chapter by having
all of the following done:
   A.   The premises has not been cleaned up;
   B.   The premises is cleaned up and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
   C.   The materials removed by the cellar space and excavations have not been
filled;
   D.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed,
and all openings to sanitary sewers have not been plugged to meet the
requirements of the Town Code Enforcement Officer and securely closed; and
   E.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from trash
or the same be not immediately done. (2018 Code)
5-5-7: DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC STRUCTURES:
The Preservation Review Commission shall have the power to make recommendations
regarding the proposed demolition of designated landmarks or historic
structures, including public demolition procedures initiated through statutory
"nuisance abatement" processes, as well as other public or privately initiated
demolition processes. No permit to demolish all or part of such landmarks or
structures shall be granted by the Code Enforcement Officer nor shall an
abatement order be implemented, except as follows:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of the
Town, in charge of a landmark or historic site improvement in a historic
district shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish, partially or in
total, such property without the written approval of the Preservation Review
Commission;
   B.   Upon the filing of an application with the Preservation Review
Commission, the commission shall determine whether the proposed change would
destroy or adversely affect the historical features of the landmark, historic
site, or historic district property;
   C.   If the Preservation Review Commission determines that the landmark,
historic site, or property within a historic district would be adversely
affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent of the granting of
permission or of the permit. The commission shall make its decision within
thirty (30) days after the filing of the application and shall state in writing
the reasons for withholding consent, mailing same to the applicant; and
   D.   If the Preservation Review Commission refuses to grant permission or
approve issuance of a permit for demolition, it shall cooperate with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity, and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is
agreed upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the Code
Enforcement Officer may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or
the Town agent may proceed without the approval of the commission. (2018 Code)
5-5-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the Town limits without having first procured a permit therefor
as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the Town and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-6-1: State Regulations Adopted
5-6-2: Violation; Penalties
5-6-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The latest edition of the permanent rules of the State Department of Health
pertaining to food service establishments, as codified in title 310, chapter
256 of the Oklahoma Administrative Code, promulgated for the purpose of
implementing 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-1101 - 1-1134, is adopted as a
part of this section as if set out at length in this section. Three (3) copies
of such rules are on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The rules
shall govern the definitions; inspection of food service establishments; the
issuance, suspension, and revocation of permits to operate food service
establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food
or drink; and the enforcement of this section. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd.
2018 Code)
5-6-2: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of a violation
may be enjoined from continuing the violation. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS AND SMOKING
ARTICLE A. TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Title
5-7A-2: Purpose And Intent
5-7A-3: Definitions
5-7A-4: Prohibited Conduct; Exceptions
5-7A-5: Sign Specifications And Requirements
5-7A-6: Enforcement And Penalties
5-7A-1: TITLE:
The title of this article shall be the TOBACCO FREE AND VAPOR FREE ORDINANCE
FOR TOWN PROPERTY. (Ord. 2016-03, 5-9-2016)
5-7A-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to provide for the public
health, safety and welfare by discouraging the inherently dangerous behavior of
tobacco product and vapor product use around nonusers, especially children; by
protecting the public from exposure to secondhand smoke where people work,
play, and learn; by reducing the potential for children to wrongly associate
tobacco product and vapor product use with a healthy lifestyle; and by
affirming and promoting a healthy environment in the Town.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the Town Board of Trustees to supplement
applicable State and Federal law and not to duplicate or contradict such law.
(Ord. 2016-03, 5-9-2016)
5-7A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
INDOOR AREA: Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the public, at
all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor area includes
work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias, hallways, and any other spaces used or visited by employees, as
well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally
enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed
windows, stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: All buildings, indoor areas and outdoor areas, including,
but not limited to, recreational areas, and other property, or portions
thereof, owned or operated by the Town, including, but not limited to, vehicles
and equipment owned by the Municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other
lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption. Tobacco product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container, with or without nicotine, or other form
that is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device. (Ord. 2016-03, 5-
9-2016)
5-7A-4: PROHIBITED CONDUCT; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by Oklahoma State law.
   B.   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
Municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   C.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   D.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ashtrays or ashcans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in violation of any provision of this article.
   E.   No person shall dispose of tobacco product or vapor product waste
within an area in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited.
   F.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seems to attain compliance with this
article.
   G.   Nothing in this article prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property, even if the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise prohibited in that
area.
   H.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited in this
article shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point of
entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
(Ord. 2016-03, 5-9-2016)
5-7A-5: SIGN SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Indoor Area: For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor
products in indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least four inches by
two inches (4" x 2") in size and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco
use is prohibited or that a tobacco free environment is provided.
   B.   Outdoor Area: For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor
products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather resistant, at least fifteen
inches by fifteen inches (15" x 15") in size, with lettering of at least one
inch (1"), and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or
that a tobacco free environment is provided.
   C.   Responsibility For Posting Signs: For purpose of this section, the
Mayor or his/her designee shall be responsible for the posting of signs on
Municipal property, both indoor and outdoor.
   D.   Presence Or Absence Of Signs No Defense: Notwithstanding this section,
the presence or absence of signs shall not be a defense to a charge of the use
of tobacco products or vapor products in violation of any other provision of
this article. (Ord. 2016-03, 5-9-2016)
5-7A-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement of this article shall be the responsibility of the Mayes
County Health Department. In addition, any peace officer or Code enforcement
official may enforce this article.
   B.   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of this
article is a nuisance.
   C.   The use of a vapor product in violation of this article is a nuisance.
   D.   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in violation of
this article shall constitute a separate violation.
   E.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this article regarding tobacco product or vapor product use shall
also constitute a violation of this article.
   F.   Any person who knowingly violates this article shall be punishable by a
citation and fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   G.   The remedies provided by this section are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity. (Ord. 2016-03, 5-9-2016)
ARTICLE B. TOBACCO USE AND SMOKING IN PUBLIC
SECTION:
5-7B-1: State Regulations Adopted
5-7B-2: Use Of Tobacco Products In Public Prohibited; Designated Smoking Areas
5-7B-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act, as now or hereafter
amended, is hereby adopted as if set out at length in this section and any
violation of such Act shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-06, 6-13-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
5-7B-2: USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED; DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS:
The use of any tobacco related products, including, but not limited to, smoking
products, chewing tobacco, dip, snuff, etc., is prohibited within all
buildings/structures regardless if owned, leased or operated by the Town and/or
the Town Public Works Authority. Additionally, if a designated area is
established, tobacco shall only be permitted in that designated location. (Ord.
2016-06, 6-13-2016)
ARTICLE C. PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
5-7C-1: Definitions
5-7C-2: Furnishing Or Sale Of Tobacco Products Or Vapor Products To Minors
5-7C-3: Receipt Of Tobacco Products, Nicotine Products, Or Vapor Products By
Minors
5-7C-4: Distribution Of Tobacco Product Or Vapor Product Samples
5-7C-5: Sale Of Tobacco Products Or Vapor Products Except In Original, Sealed
Package
5-7C-6: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco Products, Nicotine Products, Or
Vapor Products
5-7C-7: Report Of Violations And Compliance Checks
5-7C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
indicates a different meaning:
CIGARETTE: Any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be burned or
heated under ordinary conditions of use, and costs of or contains:
1.   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or any substance not containing
tobacco;
2.   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which, because of
its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filter, or its packaging and
labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette
described in subsection 1. of this paragraph.
The term ''cigarette" includes “roll-your-own" (i.e., any tobacco which,
because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling is suitable for use and
likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes.) For purposes of this definition of cigarette, nine one-hundredths
(0.09) of an ounce of “roll-your-own" tobacco shall constitute one individual
"cigarette."
NICOTINE PRODUCT: Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated from
plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified organic matter,
or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human consumption; provided,
however, this term shall not include products approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost to
promote the product.   
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains or is derived from tobacco and is
intended for human consumption excluding drugs or devices approved for
cessation by The U.S. Food arid Drug Administration. This includes cigarettes,
cigars, chewing tobacco, e-cigarettes, and vapor product with or without
nicotine.
TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, using a transaction
scan device, the validity of a driver's license or other government-issued
photo identification.
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices used
at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver's license or other government issued photo identification.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Non-combustible products that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit, or
another mechanism regardless of shape or size that can be used to produce vapor
in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any vapor cartridge
or other container with or without nicotine or another form that is intended to
be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, or similar product or device. "Vapor products" do not include
any products regulated by the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 02, 8-14-
2023)
5-7C-2: FURNISHING OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR VAPOR PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product or vapor product to another person under twenty-one (21)
years of age or purchase a tobacco product or nicotine product, or vapor
product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee
under twenty- one (21) years of age to handle tobacco products, nicotine
products, or vapor products when required in the performance of the employee's
duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products, or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude based
on appearance that the prospective purchaser may be under twenty-one (21) years
of age. If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products, nicotine products, or vapor products has demanded and was shown proof
of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one
(21) years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not
constitute a violation of subsection B of this section.
   C.   Defenses: Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to prosecution under subsections A
or B of this section. A person cited for violation of this section shall be
deemed to have reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not
be found guilty of such violation if such person proves that:
      1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product or
vapor product presented a driver's license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was twenty-one (21)
years of age or older; and
      2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver's license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan using a transaction scan
device.
      3.   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver's license or other government-issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   D.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the total of
any fines, fees or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense within two (2)
years following the first offense; and
      3.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense
within two (2) years following the first offense. In addition to any other
penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products, nicotine products, or
the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly engaged in the
sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is merely incidental
may be suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days; or
      4.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or subsequent offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In addition to any
other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or nicotine
products or the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly
engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
(Ord. 02, 8-14-2023)
5-7C-3: RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, NICOTINE PRODUCTS, OR VAPOR PRODUCTS BY
MINORS:
Receipt of tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products by minors.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age
to purchase, receive, or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, a
nicotine product, or vapor product, or to present to offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent for purchasing or receiving
any tobacco product, nicotine product, or vapor product. It shall not be
unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to handle tobacco
products, nicotine products, or vapor products when required in the performance
of the employee's duties.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection A of this section, the person shall:
      1.   Complete an education or tobacco use cessation program approved by
the State Department of Health as required by 10A OK Stat 2-8-224 (2022).
      2.   The Court Clerk shall notify a parent or guardian of any minor cited
for violation of this section. (Ord. 02, 8-14-2023)
5-7C-4: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT OR VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products, nicotine products, vapor products, or product samples to anyone under
twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, or
vapor product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is
within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or another facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense; and
      3.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 02, 8-14-2023)
5-7C-5: SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR VAPOR PRODUCTS EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL, SEALED
PACKAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell tobacco products, nicotine
products, or vapor products except in the original, sealed package in which
they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense, (Ord.
02, 8-14-2023)
5-7C-6: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO PRODUCTS, NICOTINE PRODUCTS, OR
VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco product, nicotine products, or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
the nicotine products or vapor products by an employee or the owner of the
store. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores that
do not admit persons under twenty- one (21) years of age into the store.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord.
02, 8-14-2023)
5-7C-7: REPORT OF VIOLATIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this article and any compliance
checks conducted by the police department under subsection B of this section
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within thirty (30) days of the conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be complied in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Convictions shall be reported by the court clerk or his designee and compliance
checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his designee.
   B.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
police department to assist in the enforcement of this article under the rules
of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 02, 8-14-2023)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definition
6-1-2: Police Department
6-1-3: Unclaimed Property
6-1-4: Medical Care Of Prisoners
6-1-1: DEFINITION:
The term "emergency", when used in this chapter, means a sudden and
unforeseeable occurrence or condition either as to its onset or its extent of
such severity or magnitude that immediate response or action is necessary to
assist law enforcement agencies having jurisdiction at the scene of the
emergency to carry out their functions. (2018 Code)
6-1-2: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Created: There is a Police Department, the head of which is
the Chief of Police. All police officers are officers of the Town.
   B.   Duties Of Department: The Police Department shall apprehend, arrest,
and turn over to proper authorities or otherwise bring to justice, as provided
by law, all violators of the ordinances of the Town or of Federal or State law;
shall suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to
its knowledge, and generally keep the peace; shall serve all warrants, writs
executions, and other process properly directed and delivered to the
department; and in all respects shall perform all duties pertaining to the
offices of police officers.
   C.   Police Officers:
      1.   Appointment: Unless the Board of Trustees delegates any such
appointive authority to the Chief of Police, employees or officers deemed
necessary shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees after consultation with
the Chief of Police.
      2.   Duties: Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be
required of them by the Chief of Police, Town ordinances, Federal, State and
County regulations, and any other actions required in the maintenance of good
order and public peace.
   D.   Requests For Search Of Controlled Dangerous Substances: The Police
Department may, upon written request from business establishments, schools, or
other public facilities, use its personnel and canine service to search for
controlled dangerous substances for a fee as set by the Town.
   E.   Emergency Duties In Other Jurisdictions:
      1.   Approval is hereby given for service of members of the Police
Department of the Town as police officers of any other jurisdiction in an
emergency situation in the State not more than forty five (45) miles distant
from the Town when such service is requested by the Mayor or his designee or by
the Chief of Police or his designee of the jurisdiction.
      2.   Requests for service under this subsection shall be made in writing
or by telephone, or other means of communications, to the Mayor and, in his
absence, the Vice Mayor, who, if he/she determines that the request can be
granted consistently with the continuance of the proper police protection to
the inhabitants of the Town, and after consultation with the Chief of Police,
shall direct the Chief of Police to furnish the number of officers requested
and to arrange their transportation to the requesting jurisdiction. (2018 Code)
6-1-3: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Unclaimed Property In Police Possession; Disposition And Records:
      1.   All personal property which has been found, stolen, or taken from
the possession of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with a crime
which comes into the possession of any police officer and is not known to
belong to some person laying claim thereto shall be delivered to the Chief of
Police by the police officer who came into the possession of the personal
property. The Chief of Police shall make a record in a record book to identify
the property with the date and the circumstances and the receipt thereof, the
name of the person from whom it was taken, and the place where it was found.
      2.   The personal property record provided in subsection A1 of this
section shall disclose the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of
sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold;
or the date of delivery to a Town department, the name of the department and
the name of the Supervisor of the department; or the date, place and method of
its destruction and the name of officers witnessing the destruction; or the
date of the delivery to the next of kin or legally appointed representative of
a deceased person, and the name and address of the next of kin or legal
representation.
   B.   Property In Possession Longer Than Thirty Days: Any unclaimed personal
property, or property whose ownership is not satisfactorily established, other
than animals, which has remained in the possession of the Chief of Police for a
period of thirty (30) days, shall be sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall
be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, except such personal property which, at
the option of the Mayor, can be more advantageously used by any Town
department. The Town Clerk- Treasurer shall issue his/her receipt therefor and
deposit the proceeds into the credit of the General Fund of the Town ten (10)
days before sales of unclaimed property. The Chief of Police or his designee
shall sign and have posted in at least four (4) public places in the Town (1 of
which shall be the front door of the police station) notices of the time, place
and manner of the sale and examples of types of property. If the Mayor delivers
any of the personal property to the Chief of Police for use in any Town
department, he shall so instruct the Chief of Police in writing and the Chief
shall thereupon deliver the personal property designated to that Town
department and shall keep a record of its disposition.
   C.   Property Found By Other Than Public Official: Any personal property
found by a person other than a public official or a public employee of the Town
which is delivered to any police officer for identification and which is not
claimed or identified within thirty (30) days shall, within ten (10) additional
days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to the finder and a
record of such disposal shall be made. If any such property shall be sold as
provided in this section and the owner thereof shall take and recover
possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall be
returned to the purchaser upon verified claim being submitted approved, and
allowed by the proper officers.
   D.   Certain Property In Possession More Than Ninety Days: Any unclaimed
personal property, other than animals, which has remained in the possession of
the Chief of Police for a period of ninety (90) days and:
      1.   Is in the nature of contraband;
      2.   Is property which would constitute a health hazard if stored for a
long period;
      3.   Is an unsafe or illegal weapon;
      4.   Is a partially filled container of liquor or beer;
      5.   Cannot be sold;
      6.   Cannot be used by any department of the Town; or
      7.   Is of trivial value in the opinion of the Chief of Police;
shall be destroyed on order of the Chief of Police. The destruction of any
personal property under the provisions of this section shall be witnessed by at
least three (3) members of the Police Department, and these witnesses must sign
a certificate of destruction which shall list all property destroyed, a general
description of same, and the date, time, place and manner of destruction.
   E.   Property Of Deceased Person: The personal property of a deceased person
shall be delivered only to the next of kin of such person or to the legally
appointed representative of his estate. If the personal property is claimed by
the legally appointed representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified
copy of the order of the District Court appointing such person shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim. If the personal property is claimed
by the next of kin, the claimant shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that
he/she is the person entitled to possession of the property, and the affidavit
shall be deemed sufficient authority to support the claim. If personal property
of a deceased person remains unclaimed for a period of ninety (90) days, it
shall be disposed of in the appropriate manner provided in this section.
   F.   Retention Of Records: Unless otherwise specified, all records of
property under this section shall remain on file for a period of five (5)
years. (2018 Code)
6-1-4: MEDICAL CARE OF PRISONERS:
   A.   When a defendant is incarcerated in the Town Jail under any other
ordinance of the Town, the Town shall not be responsible for preexisting
medical conditions and shall only be responsible for those conditions that
arise subsequent to arrest which come about due to the actions or omissions of
the Town police officers or other Town employees.
   B.   An inmate receiving medical care for a preexisting condition or a
condition not caused by the acts or omissions of the Town shall be liable for
payment of the cost of care, including, but not limited to, medication, medical
treatment and transportation costs for or relating to the condition requiring
treatment.
   C.   As used in this section, the term "preexisting medical conditions"
means those illnesses beginning or injuries sustained before a person is in the
peaceable custody of the Town's officers. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established
6-2-2: Duties Of Department
6-2-3: Fire Chief
6-2-4: Other Department Personnel
6-2-5: Membership; New Members
6-2-6: Bylaws
6-2-7: Equipment
6-2-8: Rules And Regulations
6-2-9: Authority At Emergency Scenes
6-2-10: Entry Powers
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is a Fire Department of the Town, the head of which is the Chief
of the Fire Department. (2014 Code § 13-201)
   B.   The Fire Department of the Town is a volunteer department which has in
its service not less than eight (8) nor more than twenty five (25) volunteer
firefighters. (2014 Code § 13-202; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter is considered
as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who serves in the
capacity without receiving a regular salary. (2014 Code § 13-202)
6-2-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons
from fire in public and private buildings. (2014 Code § 13-201)
6-2-3: FIRE CHIEF:
The Chief shall be the Administrative Head of the department, subject to the
laws of the State, ordinances of the Town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The Chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
   A.   Shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient operation
of the department, the training of members, and the performance of all other
duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and control of the Fire
Department, subject to the supervision and control of the Town Board; (2014
Code § 13-203)
   B.   Shall inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the department the
fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice each
year;
   C.   Shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention and
fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all members;
(2014 Code § 13-203; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers and
members in the performance of their duties;
   E.   Shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the department;
   F.   Shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiaries or arson, shall notify
proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible evidence for
future use in the case; (2014 Code § 13-203)
   G.   Is authorized to enter any building or premises in the Town at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on owners or occupants to correct any hazard or for any violations that
may be found; and
   H.   Shall ensure that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the department and
shall make reports to the Town Board as the Board may require. The Chief shall
keep the Town informed regarding the Fire Department and its needs. (2014 Code
§ 13-203; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-4: OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Assistant Chief:
      1.   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall
command the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with
the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
      2.   The Assistant Chief shall be elected from among the members of the
department and shall be appointed by the Chief, with approval of the Town
Board. (2014 Code § 13-204)
   B.   Company Officers: Company officers shall be selected by the Chief based
on the following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2014 Code § 13-205)
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the Fire
Department, subject to approval of the Chief, shall be a Secretary-Treasurer.
His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (2014 Code §
13-206)
   D.   Social Officers: The department may elect a President, Vice President,
Secretary or Treasurer to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term the members may decide upon, and their
duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored
by the members. The functions and duties of the social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the department. (2014 Code §
13-210)
6-2-5: MEMBERSHIP; NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   Appointment: Membership of the department shall consist of such persons
as may be appointed by the Chief and approved by the Board. Determination of
whether candidates for appointment are capable of performing their duties shall
be made by the Chief after a medical and physical examination has been made in
a manner prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Town Board.
   B.   Probation: New members of the department shall be appointed by the
Chief and shall be on probation for one year after their appointment. Upon
completion of their probation period, new members must be approved by the
majority of the other members of the Fire Department, the Chief and the Town
Board. (2014 Code § 13-207)
6-2-6: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer Fire Department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   C.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held each
month; (2014 Code § 13-208)
   D.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be expelled from the
Fire Department rolls;
   E.   Any member leaving the Town for an extended period of time is required
to notify the Chief;
   F.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be expelled;
   G.   Any member of the Fire Department may be expelled from the rolls by a
majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the Chief for the
following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      5.   Conviction of a felony. (2014 Code § 13-208; amd. 2018 Code)
   H.   Members with less than ten (10) years' service are required to attend
school and achieve certification as soon as practically possible. Members with
ten (10) or more years' service have three (3) years in which to be certified
by training. (2014 Code § 13-208)
6-2-7: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Authorized Equipment: The department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire. (2014 Code §
13-211)
   B.   Purchase Of Equipment: Recommendations of apparatus and equipment
needed shall be made by the Chief or his designee, purchased after approval as
other Town purchases. (2014 Code § 13-211; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Storage: All equipment of the department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the Town Board.
   D.   Fire Alarms: Suitable arrangements and equipment shall be provided for
people to turn in alarms and to notify members of the department so that they
may promptly respond. (2014 Code § 13-211)
   E.   Inventory Of Department Property: The Fire Chief shall prepare and keep
a complete inventory of all property belonging to the Town Fire Department and
shall, at the expiration of his term, turn over such inventory and all such
equipment and all such property to his successor, together with all books,
records, reports and data of the department. (2018 Code)
   F.   Use Of Equipment:
      1.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
      2.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the department. (2014 Code § 13-211)
6-2-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and
compensation. (2014 Code § 13-209)
6-2-9: AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCY SCENES:
   A.   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chiefs or other Fire Department officers
in charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires. Fire orders
shall be obeyed.
   B.   The Chief or his officers may prescribe limits in the vicinity of a
fire which no persons except those residing or owning property therein shall be
permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in command.
   C.   Police officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. (2014 Code § 13-212)
6-2-10: ENTRY POWERS:
The Chief of the Fire Department and his designee may at all reasonable hours
enter any building or premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
making any inspection or investigation which, under the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this Code, he may deem necessary to make. (2014
Code § 13-213)
ARTICLE A. SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Town And Department Authority
6-2A-2: Payment For Services
6-2A-3: Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
6-2A-4: Agent Of State
6-2A-5: Locust Grove Fire Protection District
6-2A-1: TOWN AND DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   Town Authority To Contract: The Town is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or military installations or commands, or
political subdivisions of the State for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the Town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and Municipal subdivisions of the State. (2014 Code § 13-
221)
   B.   Department Authority To Respond: The Fire Department may respond to all
requests from outside the Town limits for services within the scope of its
duties within the Town limits, unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is
inexpedient because of another fire in the Town, broken apparatus, impassable
or dangerous highways, or other physical conditions. (2018 Code)
6-2A-2: PAYMENT FOR SERVICES:
Any contract entered into by the Town with an individual owner, a firm, private
corporation, association or political subdivision for outside aid or mutual aid
for fire protection shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation, association or political subdivision for such service, equipment
or personnel in an amount reached through negotiation by the parties. (2014
Code § 13-222)
6-2A-3: SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
All firefighters attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work
outside the corporate limits of the Town, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the Town. The firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any fire pension and relief fund in the same
manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation,
first aid, inspection, or any other official work was being done within the
corporate limits of the Town. (2014 Code § 13-225; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2A-4: AGENT OF STATE:
   A.   The Fire Department, when answering any fire alarm or call or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
Town, shall be considered as an agent of the State, and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity; and
   B.   The Town shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission,
omission or negligence while answering or returning from any fire, or reported
fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this article.
(2014 Code § 13-226; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2A-5: LOCUST GROVE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT:
There is created hereby the Locust Grove Volunteer Fire Department Nonresident
Membership Association. Persons residing in the Locust Grove area, but outside
the corporate limits of the Town, may apply for membership in the association
by signing an application form and presenting it to the Fire Chief, together
with an annual membership fee. If the application is accepted, the applicant
will become and remain a member of the association, provided payment of the
annual membership fee is made. Members of the association shall receive the
services described in section
6-2A-1 of this article at a base rate, together with other charges set forth
therein. (2014 Code § 13-227)
ARTICLE B. SERVICE RATES
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Schedule Created
6-2B-2: Services Subject To Compensation
6-2B-3: Definitions Of Services Provided
6-2B-4: Billable And Nonbillable Events
6-2B-5: Billing Procedures And Terms
6-2B-6: Administration And Enforcement
6-2B-7: Effect On Town Legislation
6-2B-1: SCHEDULE CREATED:
There is hereby created a schedule of rates to be rendered within and outside
of the Town. The Town Board of Trustees may, by resolution, establish the rate
schedule and amend the same as it may deem appropriate and in the best interest
of the Town. (2018 Code)
6-2B-2: SERVICES SUBJECT TO COMPENSATION:
The Town will seek payment for the cost of services provided by the Town Fire
Department. Services for which the Town shall seek payment include:
   A.   Command and control of scene safety and scene operations at traffic
accidents and any other emergency scene.
   B.   Disentanglement operations and assistance with rescue including
extrication from vehicles.
   C.   Fluid mitigation at traffic accidents.
   D.   Fire suppression including, but not limited to, vehicle, structure and
wild land fire.
   E.   Hazard mitigation operations.
   F.   Expenses incurred during scene operations.
   G.   Expenses incurred by receiving or giving mutual aid assistance.
   H.   Any other response requiring manpower and equipment of the department.
(2018 Code)
6-2B-3: DEFINITIONS OF SERVICES PROVIDED:
The following definitions shall apply to services for which fees may be charged
as follows:
COMMAND AND CONTROL SCENE SAFETY AND SCENE OPERATIONS: Positioning of fire
apparatus and personnel so as to protect the scene from traffic and deny entry
into the scene of unauthorized personnel. This may also include using traffic
cones, signs, flares, emergency lighting and other warning devices. This may
also include having fire apparatus standing by or a pulled hose line for
protection on scene from possible fires from fumes, flammable materials and
other hazards. The most important function is establishing incident command at
the scene and to coordinate with other responding agencies for their needs at
the scene.
DISENTANGLEMENT/EXTRICATION: Anytime a person has to be lifted or taken out of
an emergency situation or forcible entry which is necessary to gain proper
access to victims. This could include, but is not limited to, car accidents,
industrial accidents, confined spaces, below grade rescues, or even high angle
rescues. Ropes, ladder devices, air monitoring equipment, self-contained
breathing apparatus, hydraulic equipment, shoring, saws, cribbing and air bags
are a few of the types of equipment used in extrication issues.
FIRE SUPPRESSION: Anytime Fire Department personnel have to contain or
extinguish a fire. It can also be laying of hose lines and positioning a hand
line for the protection of individuals and property at the scene because of
fire, smoke, leaking fluids or gases.
HAZARD MITIGATION: Hazardous or nonhazardous substances will be contained when
possible via containment, absorption, damming or diversion, or any other means
necessary to safely contain material. This could be a car accident, trucking
accident or fixed facility. The Fire Department action will be to contain the
substance as soon as possible. The Fire Department will not be responsible for
cleanup of any substances.
MUTUAL AID: Any service rendered while in the service at the request of another
department or agency authorized pursuant to Federal, State, or local law and/or
mutual aid contractual agreement. (2018 Code)
6-2B-4: BILLABLE AND NONBILLABLE EVENTS:
   A.   Residents Of The Town: Any resident of the Town shall not be billed for
the services of the Town Fire Department if the service is provided within the
corporate limits of the Town.
   B.   Members Of The Locust Grove Fire Protection District: Any paid member
of the Locust Grove Fire Protection District shall be billed for only the
following: If the member has insurance coverage, then only that portion covered
by insurance for fire calls. If the member has no insurance coverage, then
there will be no charge for the services of the Town Fire Department.
   C.   All Others: All other persons or entities shall be charged for the
following services:
      1.   First Response: Medical first response services. The Fire Department
does not bill for basic medical first response services.
      2.   Basic Response: A minor call that may include alarm or a service
call. The scene commander will determine when a scene surpasses a basic
response.
      3.   Major Incidents: Incidents including, but not limited to, calls
which involve hazardous materials, mutual aid response, government agency
response, private entity response, technical rescue, and/or major fire
response. The Town shall bill for all major incidents.
   D.   Fire Chief Review: All responses and services rendered by the Fire
Department shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall determine
if a response/service shall be billed and the amount of the bill, including pro
rata billing if applicable. These charges will be reviewed by the Fire Chief,
on scene commander or a department officer and forwarded to the Town office for
billing. (2018 Code)
6-2B-5: BILLING PROCEDURES AND TERMS:
   A.   The first billing for services shall be on or about the fifteenth day
of the month for services rendered in the prior thirty (30) day period. Terms
of payment shall be thirty (30) days, with same billing to all parties involved
in the same accident.
   B.   A second notice, with interest accrued at the rate of six percent (6%)
since the date of service, shall be sent if the invoice has not been settled in
sixty (60) days.
   C.   A third notice, with interest accrued at the rate of eight percent (8%)
since the date of service, shall be sent by certified mail if the invoice has
not been settled in ninety (90) days.
   D.   After one hundred twenty (120) days, the matter will be referred for
collection or other legal process. (2018 Code)
6-2B-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designee to
effectively pursue the requirements of this article for payment of services
rendered by the Fire Department as specifically outlined in this article. (2018
Code)
   B.   The funds received for the activities described in this article shall
be deposited into the appropriate Volunteer Fire Department account of the Town
and utilized for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the department.
(2014 Code § 13-228)
6-2B-7: EFFECT ON TOWN LEGISLATION:
This article shall not in any way impair or remove the necessity of compliance
with any other applicable rule, ordinance, regulation, bylaw, permit, or other
provision of law. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purposes
6-3-2: Duties Of Department
6-3-3: Director
6-3-4: Emergency Powers
6-3-5: Compensation
6-3-6: Nonliability Of Town
6-3-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to create an Emergency Management
Department for the Town to be prepared for and to function in the event of
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the Town. (2014
Code § 13-401; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The purpose of the Emergency Management Department (hereinafter
"department") is to prepare for and function in the event of emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the citizens of the Town. (2014 Code §
13-402; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The duty of the Emergency Management Department shall be the protection of the
lives and health of the citizens of the Town and the property and property
rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and
incidental thereto, as may be required by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 683.1 et
seq. (2014 Code § 13-401; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-3: DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment And Compensation: The department is headed by a Director,
appointed by the Town Board of Trustees for such compensation and under such
terms as the Town Board of Trustees may establish. The Director serves at the
pleasure of the Town Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 13-402)
   B.   Duties: The Director of the department shall be the administrative head
of the department and shall be responsible for carrying out the Emergency
Management Program of the Town in coordination with the Emergency Management
Advisory Committee. He shall have such further duties and responsibilities to
cooperate with all emergency services and emergency management agencies of
other governmental units including the State and the Federal governments.
   C.   Deputy Or Assistant Director: The Town Board of Trustees or the
Director, when empowered by the Town Board of Trustees, may designate some
person as Deputy Director or Assistant Director and shall prescribe the duties
of the Deputy or Assistant from time to time as necessary for the carrying out
of the Emergency Management Program of the Town. The Deputy Director shall
perform all duties of the Director upon the death, disability or illness, or
separation from service of the Director. In addition to the foregoing duties,
the Deputy or Assistant shall render such aid and assistance and perform such
duties under the Emergency Management Program of the Town as may be required by
the Director. (2014 Code § 13-403; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Fire Chief and/or Police Chief shall have the power and
authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to emergency management
and, if necessary, to take control of transportation, communications, stocks of
fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities for the purpose of
protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in every way with other
governmental agencies, emergency management services and emergency management
organizations.
   B.   The Director, other members of the department and members of any
emergency services and the Emergency Management Organization established herein
shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the State and
ordinances of the Town during the period of emergency, and shall at such time
have the further power to make arrests for violations of such laws or
ordinances. (2014 Code § 13-404; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-5: COMPENSATION:
All emergency management personnel shall serve without compensation. (2014 Code
§ 13-405; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3-6: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
The Town shall not be liable for any personal bodily injury suffered by any
such individual while serving in said voluntary capacity. (2014 Code § 13-405)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Animals At Large; Exceptions
6-4-3: Nuisance Animals
6-4-4: Pasturing Animals
6-4-5: Buildings For Animals
6-4-6: Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
6-4-7: Wild, Exotic Or Dangerous Animals
6-4-8: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4-9: Rabies Control
6-4-10: Cruelty To Animals
6-4-11: Enforcement Official
6-4-12: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section except in those cases where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ABANDONMENT OF ANIMAL: The act of forsaking the animal entirely or neglecting
or refusing to provide or perform the legal obligations for care and support of
the animal.
ANIMAL: Any warm blooded mammal, bird, fish, reptile, amphibian or
invertebrate, including wild and domesticated species, other than a human
being, and shall include exotic wildlife, domesticated fowl, and fowl, even
though separately defined herein.
ANIMAL BITE: Any penetration of the skin by the teeth or claws of an animal,
but shall exclude scratches by the claws of dogs.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons designated by the Town Board of
Trustees as an enforcement officer. See also definition of health officer.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any nonprofit, private or publicly owned and/or operated
facility where stray or unwanted animals are held.
AT LARGE: The status of any dog, livestock or domesticated fowl other than
homing pigeons that is/are not confined to the property of the owner of the
animal, or when the dog or livestock is not confined to the property of the
owner and is not under direct control of the owner or a person able to safely
and humanely restrain the animal.
DOMESTICATED FOWL: Domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, peacocks,
homing pigeons and any other domesticated birds including emus.
EUTHANIZE: The humane killing of an animal generally performed by a
veterinarian or personnel at an animal control facility under the indirect
supervision of a veterinarian.
EXPOSURE TO RABIES: A bite or physical contact with the saliva or other
potentially infectious tissues from an animal confirmed or suspected of being
infected with rabies.
FOWL: A bird of any kind, excluding domesticated fowl.
HARBORING: Any person who allows any animal to habitually remain or lodge or to
be fed within his/her home, store, yard, enclosure, or place of business or any
other premises in which such person resides or controls.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Mayes County Health Department.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Director of the Mayes County Health Department or his
authorized agent and shall also include the Town animal control officer.
HYBRID: An offspring of wild animals crossbred or domestic dogs or cats,
considered to be wild animals.
IMPOUNDMENT: Taking up and confining of an animal by the animal control officer
designed in a manner consistent with professionally recognized standards of
humane treatment.
KENNEL: Any place other than a Federal, State or Municipal facility, veterinary
hospital or medical research institute, where more than four (4) dogs and/or
more than four (4) cats beyond the age of six (6) months are kept, harbored,
boarded, sheltered or bred.
KITTEN: A cat under the age of six (6) months.
LIVESTOCK: Any burro, cattle, horses, sheep, goats, llamas, donkeys, mules and
swine.
OWNER: Any person, firm, business, organization, or corporation keeping,
possessing, harboring, or having the care or custody of an animal, except the
proprietor of a "kennel" as defined herein, or a veterinary establishment, or
in the case of a person under eighteen (18) years of age, that person's parent
or legal guardian.
PERMIT: Includes, but is not limited to, the failure to take adequate
precautions to prevent an animal from being at large.
PUP: A dog under the age of six (6) months.
QUARANTINE: Physical confinement of an animal during a specified time period
when the animal is monitored for the development of disease. During this time
period, the animal is prevented from having contact with other animals, and
human contact is limited to as few caretakers as possible.
RABIES: An acute disease of humans and warm blooded mammals caused by the
rabies virus (genus Lyssavirus) that affect the central nervous system and is
almost always fatal.
RESTRAINT AND UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal which is:
   A.   Controlled by a leash not more than eight feet (8') in length, which
leash prevents the animal from access to the property of another;
   B.   At "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's
commands; or
   C.   Confined on the premises of the owner.
STRAY: Any animal which does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its
owner, has attacked, menaced, chased, displayed threatening or aggressive
behavior or otherwise threatened or endangered the safety of any domestic
animal or person;
   B.   An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner, has
bitten a human being or a domestic animal without provocation;
   C.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
   D.   An animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals. (2014 Code § 4-101; amd. 2018 Code)
6-4-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or other person
in control of any animal, livestock or domesticated fowl to permit the same to
be at large, or to trespass upon the property of any other person. Provided,
however, this subsection shall not apply to:
      1.   Any person who takes a dog upon private property with the consent of
the owner or person in control of the property, or upon a street or other
public place where the dog is under direct control.
      2.   Any person riding or leading a horse along a street or right-of-way,
provided the horse is under the control of the person riding or leading the
same and in compliance with any other provisions of this Code. (2018 Code)
   B.   Turning Animals At Large Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to
open any enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so
as to turn the animal at large, or in any manner to turn the animal at large.
(2014 Code § 4-104)
6-4-3: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisances Declared: The following conditions are hereby declared to be
nuisances:
      1.   Any dog or other animal which, by loud, frequent, habitual barking,
howling, yelping, or otherwise, disturbs the peace and quiet of any person
within the Town limits; (2014 Code § 4-106; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Any dog or other animal which goes into any garbage can or other
waste vessel, or turns the same over, or scatters the contents of the same on
the ground; and
      3.   Any dog or other animal which chases cars, motorcycles, bicycles or
any other motor vehicle or intimidates joggers, pedestrians or children. (2014
Code § 4-106)
   B.   Nuisance Prohibited: It is unlawful to harbor an animal which is
determined to be a nuisance.
   C.   Court Procedures: Any dog or other animal alleged to be a nuisance, as
defined in this section, the owner of which may be proceeded against in the
Municipal Court after a complaint has been duly filed therein by any person
having knowledge thereof, and if the court shall find that such dog or other
animal is a nuisance, then the court may order the owner or person in
possession to prevent and abate such nuisance, or the court may order such dog
or animal impounded, and the owner or person in possession may have the dog or
other animal returned upon paying all costs of impounding and giving good and
sufficient bond, in the sum as set by the Town, conditioned that he will
prevent and abate such nuisance. Thirty (30) days thereafter, such owner or
person in possession may present to the court evidence that the nuisance has
been abated and prevented and the court may, upon such hearing, order the bond
returned. (2014 Code § 4-106; amd. 2018 Code)
6-4-4: PASTURING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, Federal, State, Town or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any private property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (2014 Code § 4-105)
6-4-5: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   Location: No stable, kennel or building wherein any animal or fowl is
kept shall be maintained closer than one hundred feet (100') to any apartment
house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is
kept. (2014 Code § 4-108; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Sanitary Premises:
      1.   Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept within the Town,
including the Town animal shelter, shall be constructed of such material and in
such manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times. (2014 Code §
4-107; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Every structure, stable, pen, coop or place wherein an animal is
kept or permitted to be kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors or dangerous to the public health. (2014 Code § 4-109; amd.
2018 Code)
   C.   Manure Receptacle Required: Every building housing any animal or fowl,
if located within two hundred feet (200') of any apartment house, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious, or hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be
provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as
to hold all accumulations of manure. The receptacle shall be emptied
sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a
nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times except when open during the
deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to
accumulate on such premises except in the receptacle. (2014 Code § 4-107; amd.
2018 Code)
   D.   Inspections And Enforcement: The Health Officer, upon complaint of any
person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may
do so on his own initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may
deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(2014 Code § 4-110)
6-4-6: VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Any dog or other animal alleged to be vicious or dangerous may be proceeded
against in the Municipal Court, after a complaint has been duly filed therein
by any person having knowledge thereof. If the court shall find that, at such
time:
   A.   The person so attacked was not at the time trespassing upon the
property of the owner or person having control of such dog or other animal; or
   B.   It cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the person so
attacked was provoking or teasing such dog or other animal; or
   C.   The dog or other animal is of such vicious and fierce disposition as to
attack human beings without provocation,
then the court shall have the authority to order such dog or other animal kept
muzzled or that such dog or other animal be kept within a sufficient enclosure.
If such dog or other animal has bitten or attacked a human being on other
occasions, the court may order that it be delivered to the animal control
officer and destroyed thereby. (2014 Code § 4-123)
6-4-7: WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, a "wild, exotic animal"
means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a domestic animal
and which can normally be found in the wild state, with or without mean or
vicious propensities, including, but not limited to lions, tigers, leopards,
panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants,
rhinoceroses, and all forms of poisonous or large snakes, including those
considered dangerous such as boas and pythons, lynxes, raccoons, skunks,
monkeys, and other like animals.
   B.   Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild,
exotic or dangerous animal in the Town limits as a pet or for display or for
exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in
this section. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks
or zoos, performing animal exhibitions, or circuses licensed by the Town.
   C.   Permit To Retain:
      1.   If the owner of a wild, exotic or dangerous animal can establish to
the Police Department's satisfaction that an animal ordinarily considered as
wild, dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other animals and that
the animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the Town Clerk- Treasurer
may issue a permit to the owner to keep such animal in the Town limits. The
permit shall be renewed annually. The fee shall be set by the Town Board of
Trustees. For any animal so permitted as provided in this subsection C1, the
owner agrees to accept full responsibility for the action and behavior of such
animal. The establishment of whether such animal is healthy, safe and tame as a
pet shall be the responsibility of the owner of the animal by submitting
written evidence to the Police Department. No permit shall be granted by the
Clerk-Treasurer unless written approval to the evidence submitted by the owner
is submitted to the Clerk- Treasurer in advance.
      2.   The Town may issue temporary permits for keeping, care and
protection of an infant animal native to this area which has been deemed to be
homeless. The Town shall have the power to release or order the release of any
infant wild animal kept under temporary permit which is deemed capable of
survival. (2014 Code § 4-150)
6-4-8: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Animal Shelter: A Town animal control shelter is hereby established
under the jurisdiction of the animal control officer or such other person as
may be officially designated. The person in charge of the animal control
shelter shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall
treat them in a humane manner. (2014 Code § 4-130)
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals:
      1.   The animal control officer, a police officer, or such other officer
or employee of the Town as may be authorized by the Town:
         a.   Shall take into custody and impound any animal running at large
in violation of any provision of the ordinances of the Town; and (2014 Code §§
4-103, 4-131)
         b.   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private
premises to take such animal into custody.
      2.   Any person may take such animal into custody and present it to the
authority in charge of the animal control shelter for impounding. (2014 Code §
4-131)
      3.   When an animal is so impounded, it shall be humanely kept and
treated, and may be redeemed and disposed of as other impounded animals are
kept, treated, and redeemed or disposed of. A description of the animal shall
be kept, and if the owner is known, the Town shall attempt to notify the owner
of the impoundment orally or in writing.
      4.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any part of this
subsection B, proof that the animal described in the complaint was "at large",
as defined in section
6-4-1 of this chapter, and that the defendant named in the complaint was the
owner of the animal shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that
the owner permitted his animal to be at large in violation of this chapter.
(2014 Code § 4-103)
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animal: An owner of an impounded animal or his
agent may redeem the animal, prior to its sale or destruction as provided for
herein, by paying the required fees against the animal and meeting any other
requirements which may be prescribed in this chapter. However, when, in the
judgment of the animal control officer, an animal should be destroyed for
humane reasons, such animal may not be redeemed. (2014 Code § 4-134)
   D.   Sale Or Destruction Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   As soon as practicable after any animal has been impounded, the
animal control officer or other employee or officer impounding the animal shall
post a notice thereof at the police office or animal control shelter of the
Town. The notice shall described the animal and notify the owner to pay the
charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The notice
shall also state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold
or destroyed as provided in this chapter.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an impounded animal
shall be held for seventy two (72) hours, during which time it may be redeemed
pursuant to this chapter. No animal may be sold or destroyed until after this
period. (2014 Code § 4-135)
      3.   Sales herein as otherwise provided for shall be for cash and shall
be conducted by, or under the direction of, the animal control officer. In no
case shall the price of an animal be less than the fees which have accrued
against the animal. If an impounded animal cannot be sold, the animal shall be
destroyed, in a humane manner, or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner.
      4.   The person purchasing an animal at a sale held as provided herein
shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased. (2014 Code § 4-135; amd.
2018 Code)
      5.   The animal control officer shall pay to the Town all monies received
from the sale of impounded animals on the day the monies are received. (2014
Code § 4-135)
      6.   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may claim
the excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the same, and a fee as provided by the Town Board to reimburse the Town
for any expense it has had in making the sale, at any time within three (3)
months after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved by the Board of
Trustees, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall pay him such excess. If a claim is not
made, the excess shall belong to the Town. (2014 Code § 4-136; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Fees; Unregistered Dogs:
      1.   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, shall determine
the fees to be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the
fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a
full day.
      2.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and present his receipt therefor to the person in
charge of the control shelter before the latter releases the animal. (2014 Code
§ 4-133)
      3.   Any person redeeming a dog not registered as required by section
6-4A-2 of this chapter shall pay the required registration fee to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag
to the person in charge of the control shelter before the latter releases the
dog. If a dog has been registered but is not wearing the tag, the person in
charge of the control shelter shall require adequate evidence of the proper
registration of the dog before releasing it. (2014 Code § 4-133; amd. 2018
Code)
   F.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for an unauthorized person to:
(2014 Code § 4-132; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Break or attempt to break open the animal control shelter or take or
let out any animal therefrom;
      2.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the Town any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
      3.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to taking into custody and impounding animals
as provided in this chapter. (2014 Code § 4-132)
6-4-9: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Management Of Animals That Bite Persons:
      1.   Dogs, Cats Or Ferrets:
         a.   Any person or entity owning, harboring, or keeping a dog, cat, or
ferret which in the preceding ten (10) days has bitten any person shall, upon
receipt of written notice by the local animal control officer or department
designee, place such animal in quarantine under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian for a period of ten (10) days from the date the person was bitten.
The impoundment and observation of the dog, cat, or ferret shall be conducted
at the veterinarian's facility or a recognized animal control facility.
Unvaccinated animals shall be vaccinated against rabies on the final day of the
ten (10) day observation period prior to discharge from the veterinarian's
supervision.
         b.   Exception to this rule include the following circumstances:
            (1)   Dogs, cats, or ferrets involved in a first party ownership
may be allowed to be placed in a home quarantine for a ten (10) day period
immediately following the bite.
            (2)   Dogs, cats, and ferrets meeting the criteria of currently
being vaccinated against rabies, and not inflicting a severe injury, shall be
placed in a home quarantine until the end of a ten (10) day period from the
bite. In some instances, a certification of animal health obtained after
examination by a licensed veterinarian on the tenth day may be required by the
department.
            (3)   Animals in service to the blind or hearing impaired and
search and rescue dogs or other animals used for police enforcement duties
shall be exempt from the quarantine when a bite exposure occurs and proper
record of immunization against rabies is presented. A certification of animal
health obtained after examination by a licensed veterinarian at the end of ten
(10) days may be required by the department.
            (4)   Stray or unwanted dogs, cats, or ferrets that have bitten any
person may either be quarantined for ten (10) days at a veterinary facility or
a recognized animal control facility or immediately euthanized and the brain
tissue submitted to the State Department of Health Laboratory for Rabies
Testing. Upon successful completion of the ten (10) day period, a stray animal
may be placed for adoption at the discretion of the animal control officer.
            (5)   In rare instances, other good and valid health reasons of the
owner or animal may be considered for justification to home quarantine (e.g., a
bitch with a litter of very young puppies, an animal with a contagious disease,
etc.). Approval for home quarantine will be determined by the department or its
designee.
      2.   Other Animals:
         a.   The final decision for animal destruction, quarantine, or other
disposition of any animal other than a dog, cat, or ferret that bites a person
or otherwise potentially exposes a person to rabies shall be determined through
the department. The department will consider, but not be limited to:
            (1)   The epidemiology and risk of rabies in the species of animal
in question;
            (2)   Possible prior exposure to a rabies vector;
            (3)   Behavior of the animal at the time of the bite;
            (4)   Prior rabies vaccinations; and
            (5)   Other circumstances that may exist.
         b.   In some situations, the department will consider the initiative
and willingness of the individual so exposed to submit to postexposure
antirabies immunization after being adequately informed of all potential risks.
         c.   Any biting animal determined to be at significant risk for the
transmission of rabies shall, upon written order by the Town Health Officer or
a specifically designated representative, be humanely killed and the brain
tissue submitted to the State Department of Health Laboratory for Rabies
Testing.
         d.   The department may order the quarantine of an animal determined
to be at very low risk for the transmission of rabies for a thirty (30) day
observation period as an alternate method to euthanasia and testing.
   B.   Severe Bite Wounds: In special circumstances involving a bite to any
person, the Town Health Officer or a specially designated representative may
require the immediate euthanasia of a specified animal for the performance of
rabies diagnostics. The term "special circumstances" refers to multiple and
severe bite wounds or deep punctures or lacerations to the face, head, or neck.
Such requirement for euthanasia will be made following investigation of the
bite report by the department designee.
   C.   Responsibility For Costs: Payment of fees incurred for daily boarding,
euthanasia, preparation, and transport of specimens for laboratory testing or
any other costs incurred to comply with Oklahoma Administrative Code 310:599
shall be the responsibility of the person or entity owning, keeping, or
harboring the animal. If the animal is a stray or wild animal without a
custodian, the bite victim or the victim's legal guardian shall be responsible
for payment.
   D.   Enforcement: It is the duty of the animal control officer to enforce
this section, and in instances where responsibility for the suspect animal
cannot be determined or established, he shall make arrangements for the
isolation and observation of the animal.
   E.   Destruction Or Quarantine: Any domestic dog or cat which is not
effectively immunized against rabies virus encephalitis and is exposed to
rabies through a rabid animal shall be destroyed immediately either by the
veterinarian in charge or by the local animal control officer or his agent, or
such nonimmunized, rabies exposed dog or cat shall be strictly quarantined and
observed for a period of six (6) months by either a veterinarian or by the
local animal control officer or his agent. Such animal shall be immunized
against rabies at least thirty (30) days prior to release. Expenses of
quarantine and immunization shall be borne by the owner or other person
responsible for the animal.
   F.   Animals Exposed To Rabid Animals:
      1.   Unvaccinated Domestic Animals:
         a.   Any dog, cat, or ferret which is not currently vaccinated against
rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be:
            (1)   Euthanized immediately either by a veterinarian of the
owner's choice or the local animal control officer or his agent; or
            (2)   Placed in strict quarantine and observed for a period of six
(6) months under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian either at a
veterinary facility or a recognized animal control facility. The exposed animal
shall be immediately vaccinated against rabies upon entry into quarantine and
then given booster vaccinations at the third and eighth week of the quarantine
period. Animals less than sixteen (16) weeks of age at the time of entry into
quarantine may be required to receive a booster vaccine in addition to the
above protocol.
         b.   Any livestock or equine animal which is not currently vaccinated
and is exposed to a rabid animal will be managed according to the most current
compendium of animal rabies control published by the National Association of
State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., and any State Department of
Agriculture guidelines that may apply.
      2.   Vaccinated Domestic Animals: Any domestic animal which is currently
vaccinated against rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be
revaccinated within three (3) days of notification and isolated by leashing or
confinement under the owner's supervision for a period of at least forty five
(45) days.
   G.   Disposal Of Remains Of Rabies Suspects: When a veterinarian provides
the service of head removal and preparation of any animal specimen for testing
of a zoonotic disease regulated under this section, it shall be the
responsibility of the veterinarian to properly dispose of the bodily remains of
the disease suspect animal in a manner that will prevent any potential future
exposure by any person or other animal to that animal's tissues. The
veterinarian is entitled to charge and collect the usual and customary fees for
the disposal services. (2018 Code)
6-4-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty Generally:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to pour on,
or apply to an animal, any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the
animal; or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or in a cruel or inhumane
manner. (2014 Code § 4-140)
      2.   The premises on or in which any animals are kept shall be subject to
inspection at any reasonable hour of the day for the purpose of enforcing this
section. (2014 Code § 4-140; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Any police officer or animal control officer may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine such animal and take possession of such animal when, in his opinion, it
requires humane treatment. (2014 Code § 4-140)
   B.   Poisoning: It is unlawful for a person to wilfully poison any dog or
other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal or to knowingly expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal. (2014 Code § 4-141)
   C.   Encouraging Fights: It is unlawful for any person to instigate or
encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue
or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a
house, pit, or other place used for fights between animals. (2014 Code § 4-142)
   D.   Animal Protection; Other Acts Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit within the limits of the
Town any live animal with the intention of abandoning such animal;
      2.   It is unlawful to carry out inhumane treatment against any animal.
Inhumane treatment is hereby defined to include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Any physical punishment inconsistent with the health of such
animal;
         b.   Lack of food or water for more than a twenty four (24) hour
period;
         c.   Knowingly permitting obvious nutritional deficiencies or other
evident health problems involving any animal;
         d.   Improper use of any collar or harness or fixed leash for the
purpose of confining any animal which results in flesh laceration, obvious
pain, or to cause choking to such animal;
         e.   Depriving an animal of adequate shelter; and
         f.   Inhumane killing or attempting to kill any animal. (2018 Code)
6-4-11: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The animal control officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter and is hereby authorized to file complaints in the Municipal Court for
violations of this chapter. The Town Water Department, or any other person or
organization, may be appointed as the animal control officer. (2014 Code § 4-
111)
6-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter or
who violates, or refuses, or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by
the Health Officer pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The penalty provided herein shall be in addition to other
remedies of the Town and shall not be construed as exclusive. (2014 Code § 4-
170; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Rabies Vaccination Requirements
6-4A-2: Dog Registration Requirements
6-4A-3: Request For Dogs To Be Leashed
6-4A-4: Kennels
6-4A-1: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: The owner or custodian of a domestic dog or cat
shall cause the animal to be vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian by the
time the animal is four (4) months of age or within fifteen (15) days of
arrival in the Town and at regular intervals thereafter according to the label
directions of an approved rabies vaccine for use in that species or as
prescribed by ordinances or rules adopted by the Town.
   B.   Certificate Of Vaccination: A veterinarian who administers or
supervises the rabies vaccination of a dog or cat shall issue to the animal's
owner/custodian, a vaccination certificate that meets the minimum standards set
forth in Oklahoma Administrative Code 310:599-3-7. Animal identification
including, but not limited to, species, gender, age, and predominant breed and
coloring must be indicated on the vaccination certificate.
   C.   Record Of Recognized Vaccination:
      1.   Record of vaccination by a veterinarian must be provided to
determine the animal to be currently vaccinated against rabies. Veterinarians
shall be required to keep a record of a rabies vaccination for a minimum period
of three (3) years. This record must include name, address and telephone number
of the owner of the animal; date of vaccination; animal identification; brand
name of vaccine used, vaccine expiration date, and producer of vaccine.
      2.   Three (3) year immunity conferred by the second or subsequent
boosters with a three (3) year rabies vaccine will be recognized in the
enforcement of Oklahoma Administrative Code 310:599. (2018 Code)
6-4A-2: DOG REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Fee:
      1.   Required: A fee in such sum as set by the Board of Trustees by
motion or resolution for every dog more than six (6) months of age is hereby
levied upon the owner of any such dog harbored within the Town. (2014 Code § 4-
121)
      2.   The tax levied in this section shall not apply to a dog or cat only
temporarily brought and kept within the town for a period of less than fifteen
(15) days, nor to a dog or cat brought within the town to participate in a dog
or cat show, nor to a service dog when such dog is actually being used by
persons with disabilities, nor to dogs or cats being kept in kennels or pet
shops for sale. (2014 Code § 4-121; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Payment: The owner shall pay the fee levied to the Town for every
calendar year and within thirty (30) days after acquiring or bringing the dog
into the Town. The license shall expire one year from the date the license was
last issued and shall not be issued for less than one year.
      4.   Penalty: If an at large dog or cat is confiscated within the town
limits, the penalty for the first violation shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00); the second violation shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00), and
each violation thereafter shall constitute a separate offense and the penalty
shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per violation and the potential that the
dog or cat will be euthanized.
   B.   Display Of Rabies Vaccination Certificate Required: The person offering
the fee shall present to the Town a certificate of a veterinarian or other
person legally authorized to immunize dogs showing that the dog has been
immunized against rabies during the six (6) months prior to issuance of the
license.
   C.   Required Information: The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying
the fee, register the dog by giving the name and address of the owner, the
name, breed, color and sex of the dog, and such other reasonable information as
the Town may request.
   D.   Receipt And Tag:
      1.   The Town shall deliver an original receipt to the owner and also an
appropriate tag for the dog. The tag shall constitute a license for the dog.
(2014 Code § 4-121)
      2.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Town to be affixed
to the collar of the dog so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the
Town. The owner shall see that the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
      3.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the Town
presenting the original receipt, and paying a fee as set by the Town Board of
Trustees. (2014 Code § 4-122; amd. Ord. 2021-02, 10-11-2021)
6-4A-3: REQUEST FOR DOGS TO BE LEASHED:
When requested by any proper official, meter reader, police officer, sanitation
worker, or other person whose duty is to enter onto private property, an owner
shall leash or otherwise confine any and all dogs to prevent harm to the person
making a lawful entry on owner's private property. (2014 Code § 4-112)
6-4A-4: KENNELS:
   A.   Private Kennels:
      1.   Determination Of Private Kennel: Any person owning, possessing,
keeping, harboring, or allowing to be kept or harbored, more than four (4) dogs
or four (4) cats, six (6) months or older shall be deemed to be operating a
private kennel for such animals.
      2.   License Required: No person shall operate a private kennel without
first obtaining an annual license from the Town to operate the kennel.
      3.   Inspections: Licenses under this section shall permit the animal
control officer to inspect the premises used as a private kennel. Private
kennels shall be maintained in accordance with the written standards of the
American Humane Society and applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.
   B.   Commercial Kennels Prohibited: No person may operate a kennel within
the Town limits for pecuniary gain or as a commercial business. The private
kennel license provided in this section does not authorize the conducting of
any commercial kennel operation but only authorizes the holder to keep more
than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats as pets for the personal use of the
family residing on the premises where the animals are kept. (2014 Code § 4-113;
amd. Ord. 2022-01, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-5-2: Conspiracy To Commit An Offense
6-5-3: Capacity To Commit An Offense
6-5-4: Lawful Use Of Force
6-5-5: Intoxication No Defense
6-5-6: Witness, Self-Incrimination
6-5-7: Time Limits On Actions
6-5-8: Violation; Penalty
6-5-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
Town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted, in the perpetration thereof, is
guilty of an offense, and shall be punishable in the manner prescribed for the
attempted offense itself. (2014 Code § 10-101)
6-5-2: CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
If two (2) or more persons conspire, either:
   A.   To commit any crime; or
   B.   Falsely and maliciously to indict another for any crime, or to procure
another to be charged or arrested for any crime; or
   C.   Falsely to move or maintain any suit, action or proceeding; or
   D.   To cheat and defraud any person of any property by any means which are
in themselves criminal, or by any means which, if executed, would amount to a
cheat or to obtain money or property by false pretenses; or
   E.   To commit any act injurious to the public health, to public morals, or
to trade or commerce, or for the perversion or obstruction of justice or the
due administration of the laws,
they are guilty of a conspiracy. (2018 Code)
6-5-3: CAPACITY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
All persons are capable of committing crimes, except those belonging to the
following classes:
   A.   Children under the age of seven (7) years;
   B.   Children over the age of seven (7) years, but under the age of fourteen
(14) years, in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the act or
neglect charged against them, they knew its wrongfulness;
   C.   Persons who are impaired by reason of mental retardation upon proof
that, at the time of committing the act charged against them, they were
incapable of knowing its wrongfulness;
   D.   Mentally ill persons, and all persons of unsound mind, including
persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, upon proof that, at the
time of committing the act charged against them, they were incapable of knowing
its wrongfulness;
   E.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under an
ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent, but ignorance
of the law does not excuse from punishment for its violation;
   F.   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious thereof;
and
   G.   Persons who committed the act, or make the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors. (2018 Code)
6-5-4: LAWFUL USE OF FORCE:
   A.   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person of
another is not unlawful in the following cases:
      1.   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance of
any legal duty, or by any other person assisting such officer or acting by such
officer's direction;
      2.   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering such person to a public officer competent
to receive such person in custody;
      3.   When committed either by the person about to be injured, or by any
other person in such person's aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to
prevent an offense against such person, or any trespass or other unlawful
interference with real or personal property in such person's lawful possession;
provided, the force or violence used is not more than sufficient to prevent
such offense;
      4.   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct such person's child, ward, apprentice or scholar, provided
restraint or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such
child, ward, apprentice or scholar, or by the child's refusal to obey the
lawful command of such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or
teacher, and the force used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      5.   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting them at their request,
in expelling from any carriage, railroad car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
and violence used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending
passenger, with a reasonable regard to his personal safety; and
      6.   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired
by reason of mental retardation or developmental disability as defined by 10
Oklahoma Statutes section 1430.2, a mentally ill person, insane person or other
person of unsound mind, including persons temporarily or partially deprived of
reason from committing an act dangerous to such person's self or to another, or
enforcing such restraint as is necessary for the protection of the person or
for restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to
obtain legal authority for the restraint or custody of the person. (2018 Code)
   B.   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that degree
of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be used. (2014 Code § 10-112)
6-5-5: INTOXICATION NO DEFENSE:
No act committed by a person while in a state of voluntary intoxication shall
be deemed less criminal by reason of his being in such condition. (2018 Code)
6-5-6: WITNESS, SELF-INCRIMINATION:
No person otherwise competent as a witness shall be incapacitated, excused or
disqualified from testifying concerning the offense mentioned in this Code, or
any ordinances hereafter enacted, on the ground that his testimony might
incriminate him, but the testimony which may be given by such witness shall in
no case be used against him. (2014 Code § 10-108)
6-5-7: TIME LIMIT ON ACTIONS:
The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be according to the provisions contained in 22 Oklahoma Statutes
section 152. (2018 Code)
6-5-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any person, firm or
corporation, shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code unless otherwise specifically shown. (2014 Code § 10-113;
amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Theft And Related Offenses
6-5A-2: Harmful Deception
6-5A-3: Damage To Property
6-5A-4: Taking Or Tampering With Vehicle
6-5A-5: Tampering With Or Damaging Utilities
6-5A-6: Trespassing And Related Offenses
6-5A-7: Discharging Firearms; Throwing Objects
6-5A-8: Littering From Vehicle; Throwing Lighted Materials
6-5A-9: Littering; Unlawful Deposits
6-5A-10: Posting Advertisements
6-5A-11: Interference With Wireless Reception
6-5A-12: Electric Fences
6-5A-13: Nuisance Conditions
6-5A-1: THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Petit Larceny; Embezzlement: No person shall steal, take and carry away
by fraud or stealth, with intent to deprive another thereof, any personal
property under the value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or embezzle any
money, personal property or effects of another. This subsection does not apply
to taking property from the "person" of another. (2014 Code § 10-301; amd. 2018
Code)
   B.   Larceny By False Pretense: No person shall induce, or attempt to
induce, any person to give up or pay over any money or other thing of value,
which money or value does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), by any
false representation or pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or
check, draft or other false evidence of value, or in consideration of
refraining from a lawful or unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining
from reporting any unlawful act to any public official. (2014 Code § 10-302;
amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Altering Keys: No person shall make or alter, or attempt to make or
alter, any key or other instrument that will open the lock of a building unless
requested to do so by some person having the right and authority to make such
request. (2014 Code § 10-303)
   D.   Possession Of Stolen Property: No person shall keep in his possession,
or dispose of, or conceal any stolen property, or fail promptly to inform some
proper official of the possession thereof, under circumstances indicating that
such property has been stolen or the possession thereof obtained unlawfully.
(2014 Code § 10-304)
   E.   Defrauding Public Accommodations:
      1.   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation in any
hotel; motel; inn; boarding, eating or rooming house or place; or any other
lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper.
      2.   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused or that
the person left the hotel; motel; inn; boarding, eating or rooming house or
place; or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the food,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
      3.   This subsection E shall not apply where there has been an agreement
in writing for delay in payment. (2014 Code § 10-305; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Shoplifting:
      1.   As used in this section, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    EMANCIPATED MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) who is married and/or not
under direct supervision and care of the parent or legal guardian of the minor.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and includes
the merchant's employees, servants, security agents or other agents.
   MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed, held or
offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale.
   UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: Any unmarried person under eighteen (18) years of age
under direct supervision and care of the parent or legal guardian of the minor.
      2.   An adult or emancipated minor who takes possession of any goods,
wares, or merchandise displayed or offered for sale by any wholesale or retail
store or other mercantile establishment without the consent of the owner,
seller, or merchant and with the intention of converting such goods, wares, or
merchandise to his own use without having paid the purchase price thereof,
shall be liable in a civil action for the retail price of the merchandise if it
is unsalable or the percentage of the diminished value of the merchandise due
to the conversion, together with attorney fees and court costs.
      3.   The parent or legal guardian having custody of an unemancipated
minor who takes possession of any goods, wares, or merchandise displayed or
offered for sale by any wholesale or retail store or other mercantile
establishment without the consent of the owner, seller, or merchant, and with
the intention of converting such goods, wares, or merchandise to his own use
without having paid the purchase price thereof shall be liable in a civil
action for the retail price of the merchandise if it is unsalable or the
percentage of the diminished value of the merchandise due to the conversion
together, with attorney fees and court costs.
      4.   An adult, emancipated minor or unemancipated minor against whom
judgment is rendered for taking possession of any goods, wares or merchandise
displayed or offered for sale by any wholesale or retail store or other
mercantile establishment without the consent of the owner, seller or merchant
and with the intention of converting such goods, wares or merchandise to his or
her own use without having paid the purchase price thereof, may also be
required to pay exemplary damages.
      5.   In lieu of the exemplary damages prescribed by subsection F4 of this
section, any adult, emancipated minor or unemancipated minor against whom a
judgment for exemplary damages has been rendered hereunder may be required to
perform public services designated by the court; provided, that in no event
shall any such person be required to perform less than the number of hours of
such public service necessary to satisfy the damages assessed by the court at
the Federal minimum wage prevailing in the State at the time of judgment, but
in no case less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      6.   For the purpose of this section, liability shall not be imposed upon
any governmental entity, private agency, or foster parent assigned
responsibility for the minor child pursuant to court order or action of the
Department of Human Services.
      7.   An action for recovery of damages, pursuant to this section, may be
brought in the Small Claims Division of the District Court where the damages
sought are within the jurisdictional limits of the court, or in any other
appropriate court. (2018 Code)
   G.   Failure To Pay Conveyance Fare: No person shall use or accept the use
and services of any streetcar, taxicab, omnibus, automobile or any other means
of public conveyance or passengers, operating under this Code or any ordinance,
franchise, permit or license of the Town or State, and refuse or fail to pay to
the operator of the conveyance the usual, customary, regulation or legal charge
or price as fare immediately upon the performance of the service. (2014 Code §
10-307)
   H.   False Or Bogus Checks:
      1.   The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include checks or
orders, including those converted to electronic fund transfer, which are not
honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to pay same or because
the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent account
when such checks or orders are given:
         a.   In exchange for money or property;
         b.   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value;
         c.   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof; or
         d.   As payment made to a landlord under a lease or rental agreement.
      2.   The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest
fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for payment; and
provided, further, that the check or order is presented for payment within
thirty (30) days after same is delivered and accepted.
      3.   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is
refused by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the
seller of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
      4.   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account
of the maker with the merchant shall mean "a check or order given in exchange
for a benefit or thing of value", notwithstanding that the merchant may debit
the account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in
the event the check or order is not honored.
   I.   False Weights: If any person with intent to defraud, uses a false
balance, weight or measure, in the weighing or measuring of anything whatever
that is purchased, sold, bartered, shipped or delivered, for sale or barter, or
that is pledged, or given in payment, he shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00). (2018 Code)
6-5A-2: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2014 Code § 10-309)
6-5A-3: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: Every person who maliciously injures, defaces or
destroys any real or personal property not his or her own, in cases other than
such as are specified in 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1761 et seq., is guilty
of a misdemeanor, if the damage, defacement or destruction causes a loss which
has an aggregate value of less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (2018
Code)
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall wilfully, unlawfully or maliciously take and carry
away, or cause to be taken and carried away, any part of a house, barn, fence,
gate or other structure, or maliciously break, tear down or destroy any part of
a house, barn or other structure not his own. (2014 Code § 10-311)
      2.   No person shall wilfully and wantonly damage or destroy the personal
property of another. (2014 Code § 10-312)
   C.   Destroying Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   Private Property: No person shall wilfully, maliciously and without
lawful authority cut down, root up, sever, injure or destroy any fruit tree,
shade or ornamental tree, cultivated root or plant, grape or strawberry vine,
shrub or plant whatsoever standing on or attached to the land of another, or
pick, destroy, carry away therefrom, or in any way interfere with any of the
fruit thereof.
      2.   Public Property: No person shall wilfully or without lawful
authority cut down, destroy, root up or in any manner injure any fruit, shade
or ornamental tree, shrub or vine planted or growing on any street, land,
avenue, alley or other public ground of the Town. (2014 Code § 10-316)
6-5A-4: TAKING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to loiter in or upon any
automobile or motor vehicle, or to deface or injure such automobile or motor
vehicle, or to molest, drive, or attempt to drive any automobile, for joyriding
or any other purpose, or to manipulate or meddle with any machinery or
appliances thereof without the consent of the owner of such automobile or motor
vehicle. (2018 Code)
6-5A-5: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING UTILITIES:
   A.   Wires, Pipes And Poles: No person shall wilfully break, dig up or
obstruct any pipes or mains for conducting gas or water, or any works erected
for supplying buildings with gas or water, or any appurtenances or appendages
therewith connected, or injure, cut, break down or destroy any electric light
wires, poles or appurtenances, or any telephone or telegraph wires, cable or
appurtenances. (2018 Code)
   B.   Manholes: It is unlawful to open up any manhole or opening to a sewer
unless authorized by the Town, or to leave a manhole or other opening so opened
without replacing the fixture or appliances thereto in their proper place and
position.
   C.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   No person, except a member of the Fire Department or a person acting
on lawful order or permit issued by the Town, shall open or use water from any
fire hydrant or take off the caps or damage the same.
      2.   No person may block the approach or access to a fire hydrant or
attach, fasten, stand or brace anything against or on the hydrant. (2014 Code §
10-315)
   D.   Larceny Of Cable, Information Or Telecommunication Services:
      1.   No person:
         a.   Shall knowingly obtain or attempt to obtain cable, information,
or telecommunications service of any type or kind including, but not limited
to, cable television, telephony, internet, and data transmission service from
another by means, artifice, trick, deception, or device without the payment to
the operator of said service of all lawful compensation for each type of
service obtained; or
         b.   Shall knowingly assist or instruct any other person in obtaining
or attempting to obtain cable, information, or telecommunications service of
any type or kind including, but not limited to, cable television, telephony,
internet, and data transmission service without the payment to the operator of
all lawful compensations; or
         c.   Shall knowingly tamper or otherwise interfere with or connect to
by any means, whether mechanical, electrical, acoustical, or other means, any
cables, wires, or other devices used for the distribution of cable,
information, or telecommunications service of any type or kind including, but
not limited to, cable television, telephony, internet, and data transmission
service without authority from the operator of said service; or
         d.   Shall knowingly manufacture, import into this State, distribute,
sell, offer for sale, rental, or use, possess for sale, rental, or use, or
advertise for sale, rental, or use any device of any description, or any plan,
or kit for a device, designed in whole or in part to facilitate the doing of
any of the acts specified in subsections D1a, D1b and D1c of this section.
      2.   In any prosecution as set forth in subsection D1 of this section,
the existence on the property and in the actual possession of the accused, of:
a) any connection, wire, conductor, or any device whatsoever, which is
connected in such a manner as would appear to permit the use of cable,
information, or telecommunications service of any type or kind including, but
not limited to, cable television, telephony, internet, and data transmission
service without the same being reported for payment to and specifically
authorized by the operator of the cable, information, or telecommunications
service of any type or kind including, but not limited to, cable television,
telephony, internet, and data transmission service; or b) the existence on the
property and in the actual possession of the accused, in quantities or volumes
suggesting possession for resale, of any device designed in whole or in part to
facilitate the performance of any of the illegal acts mentioned in subsection
D1 of this section shall be prima facie evidence of intent to violate and of
the violation of the provisions of subsection D1 of this section by the
accused.
      3.   Any franchised or otherwise duly licensed cable television system,
information service provider, or other telecommunications service or equipment
provider may bring an action to enjoin and restrain any violation of the
provisions of this subsection D or an action of conversion, or both, and may in
the same action seek damages.
      4.   It is not a necessary prerequisite to an action pursuant to this
subsection D that the plaintiff has suffered, or be threatened with, actual
damages.
      5.   The provisions of this subsection D shall not be construed or
otherwise interpreted to prohibit an individual from owning or operating a
device commonly known as a "satellite receiving dish" for the purpose of
receiving and utilizing satellite relayed television signals for his own use.
(2018 Code)
6-5A-6: TRESPASSING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Trespassing:
      1.   Definition: "Trespass" shall include each and every actual entry
upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful possession of the
premises without the express consent of the owner or other person in lawful
possession. "Trespass" shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, or the agent or employee of the owner, or other person
in lawful possession of the premises. "Trespass" shall also mean the act of
entering upon or remaining on private property when such is plainly forbidden
by signs, markings, or otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his agent, or
employee, or after having been directed to do so by a police officer, although
this sentence shall not apply to persons including employees whose presence
upon the premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful
possession of such premises. "Trespass" shall also include the act of returning
to private property after having been directed to vacate the premises by the
owner, his agent or employee or police officer under the terms of this
subsection.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit
a trespass within the Town upon either public or private property.
      3.   Violations:
         a.   Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed a
violation of this subsection:
            (1)   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of
another;
            (2)   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of
another when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
            (3)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another
owner or person in possession of real property, whether the property is public
or private, without the owner's or occupant's consent, express or implied;
            (4)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified
times;
            (5)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
any owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
            (6)   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at
specified times;
            (7)   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a Town official;
            (8)   If on the property of another, or upon public property
lawfully, a failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so
depart orally or in writing by any owner, lawful occupant, or a Town official;
            (9)   An entry upon any portion of a public park where the entry
involves the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is
specifically prohibited;
            (10)   An entry of any public building except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent is obtained from
the Town Board of Trustees or other public official who is lawfully authorized
to give consent; or
            (11)   Remaining on public or private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this subsection A3a
(11) shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such
premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such
premises; nor shall the provisions of this subsection A3a(11) apply unless
hours of business operation are posted upon such premises. "Trespass" also
includes the act of returning to private property before the posted time of
opening for business operation on the next business day after having been
directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this subsection A3a(11).
         b.   For purposes of constituting a violation of this subsection, the
exhibited notice required under subsections A3a(4), A3a(5), A3a(6), A3a(7) and
A3a(8) of this section shall meet the following criteria:
            (1)   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places
conspicuous to those who would enter the property;
            (2)   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable
warning prior to the commission of a trespass; and
            (3)   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some
part of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day
entry is prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under this Code. (2014 Code § 10-317)
   B.   Intrusion On Land Or Structures:
      1.   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land or
in any building within the Town without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatever without such license
or authority.
      2.   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the Town any structure whatever unless such person
is granted a license by the Town to do so. (2014 Code § 10-319)
   C.   Congregating, Parking On Premises:
      1.   Definitions: When used in this subsection C, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
    AFTER BUSINESS HOURS: The doors of the business which are open to the
public during business hours are closed and locked, and the business is no
longer admitting customers. The term applies to places of business which are
vacant or permanently or temporarily closed or otherwise unoccupied.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any private property upon which a building, house or
other structure is used for commercial or public purposes, e.g., without
limitation, restaurants, gas stations, shopping malls or centers, theaters,
convenience stores, grocery stores, drugstores or pharmacies, recreational
facilities, wholesale or retail sales activities, offices, banks or other
financial institutions, manufacturing and professional services (medical,
legal, accounting, insurance, consulting).
      2.   Prohibitions:
         a.   No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie, congregate or otherwise
occupy or remain upon the premises of any place or business within the Town
after business hours without the consent of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee
or employee thereof.
         b.   No person shall stop, stand, park, leave, or place any motor
vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property without
the consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except where
such property is provided for public parking and the use for such parking is
not restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for a
violation of this subsection C2b, the vehicle so parked, left or placed shall
be subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful
occupant. The person violating this subsection C2b shall be wholly responsible
for payment of towage and storage charges.
      3.   Sign Posted: No person may be charged under this subsection C unless
the premises in question is posted with a conspicuous sign which states,
substantially, that the premises is posted, and that any person congregating,
occupying or remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a motor vehicle
thereon is subject to prosecution pursuant to this Code.
      4.   Presumption: There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or
motor vehicle upon the premises of a place of business that is properly posted
pursuant to this subsection C after such time as the front door or other such
door that admits members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises
of such business unlawfully under this subsection C; however, this presumption
shall not be applied within thirty (30) minutes of any opening or closing times
posted by such place of business. This presumption may only be rebutted by
proof beyond a reasonable doubt that any person held by the Municipal Judge to
be subject to this rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with
permission of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
      5.   Prima Facie Proof: If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully
parked or left under this subsection C, it shall be rebuttably presumed that
the person in whose name the motor vehicle was last registered was the person
who parked or left the motor vehicle.
      6.   Violation; Penalty:
         a.   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth herein
shall constitute the offense of unlawful parking or leaving a motor vehicle
after business hours, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
         b.   If a person violates subsection C2a of this section, it shall
constitute the offense of unlawful presence on property after business hours or
congregating after business hours and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      7.   Provisions Cumulative: The provisions of this subsection C are
cumulative of other applicable offenses enacted in this Code or State law.
(2014 Code § 10-318)
   D.   Sleeping In Public: It is unlawful for any person, without lawful
reason, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property
of another without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place. (2014 Code § 10-515; amd. 2018 Code)
6-5A-7: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; THROWING OBJECTS:
Every person who wilfully discharges any pistol, rifle, shotgun, airgun or
other weapon, or throws any other missile in any public place, or in any place
where there is any person to be endangered thereby, although no injury to any
person shall ensue, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a
violation of the provisions of this section after having been issued a handgun
license pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act shall have
the license suspended for a period of six (6) months and shall be subject to an
administrative fine of fifty dollars ($50.00), upon a hearing and determination
by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation that the person is in violation
of the provisions of this section. (2018 Code)
6-5A-8: LITTERING FROM VEHICLE; THROWING LIGHTED MATERIALS:
   A.   The operator of a vehicle, unless any other person in the vehicle
admits to or is identified as having committed the act, shall be liable for any
act of throwing, dropping, depositing, or otherwise placing any litter from a
vehicle upon highways, roads, or public property.
   B.   As used in this section, "litter" means any flaming or glowing
substances except those which by law may be placed upon highway rights-of-way,
any substance which may cause a fire, any bottles, cans, trash, garbage, or
debris of any kind. As used in this section, "litter" shall not include trash,
garbage, or debris placed beside a public road for collection by a garbage or
collection agency, or deposited upon or within public property designated by
the State or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions as an appropriate
place for such deposits if the person making the deposit is authorized to use
the property for such purpose. (2018 Code)
6-5A-9: LITTERING; UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
Any person who deliberately places, throws, drops, dumps, deposits, or discards
any garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, refuse, debris, or other deleterious
substance on any public property or on any private property of another without
consent of the property owner shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (2018
Code)
6-5A-10: POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of any
kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
   B.   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any sign,
poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other marking
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post, automobile
or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof. (2014 Code § 10-323)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of any
kind on any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or
sidewalks of the Town, or to place any advertising on any signs or banners
stretched over the streets or sidewalks of the Town. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent any permanently located commercial or business
establishment in the Town from erecting and maintaining business or commercial
signs in accordance with the ordinances of the Town, nor to prohibit the
granting of permission by the Town to religious, charitable, patriotic or civic
bodies to use banners across the streets of the Town in such places as may be
designated by the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the observance of holidays,
charitable drives and the commemoration and celebration of other public or
civic occasions. (2014 Code § 10-324)
6-5A-11: INTERFERENCE WITH WIRELESS RECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any electrical apparatus, device or machine which materially and
unduly interferes with wireless reception of others. (2014 Code § 10-325; amd.
2018 Code)
6-5A-12: ELECTRIC FENCES:
It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the Town; except, that the Code Enforcement Officer may
issue a permit for an electrically charged fence to retain animals upon proof
that the fence will not be hazardous to life and upon proof that the electric
charge is regulated by a controlling device. (2014 Code § 10-327; amd. 2018
Code)
6-5A-13: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet, or
sanction a nuisance on or about any premises owned by him or under his control
at any place within the corporate limits of the Town. (2014 Code § 10-109)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, PERSONS AND THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault And Battery
6-5B-2: Disturbing The Peace; Unlawful Assembly
6-5B-3: Disturbing Funerals
6-5B-4: Disorderly Conduct
6-5B-5: Reckless Conduct
6-5B-6: Noisy Conditions
6-5B-7: Fireworks
6-5B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
    ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another. (2014 Code §§ 10-202, 10-203)
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both,
upon the person of another. (2014 Code § 10-201)
6-5B-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
   A.   If any person shall wilfully or maliciously disturb, either by day or
night, the peace and quiet of the Town, neighborhood, family or person by loud
or unusual noise, or by abusive, violent, obscene or profane language, whether
addressed to the party so disturbed or some other person, or by threatening to
kill, do bodily harm or injury, destroy property, fight, or by quarreling or
challenging to fight, or fighting, or shooting off any firearms, or brandishing
the same, or by running any horse at unusual speed along any street, alley,
highway or public road, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00), or by imprisonment in the Town Jail not to exceed thirty (30) days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court.
   B.   If any person shall make use of any profane, violent, abusive or
insulting language toward or about another person, in the presence or hearing,
which language, in its common acceptation, is calculated to arouse to anger the
person about or to whom it is spoken or addressed, or to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault, every such person shall be deemed guilty of a breach of
the peace and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine in any
sum not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), or by imprisonment in the Town
Jail not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at
the discretion of the court.
   C.   Wherever three (3) or more persons assemble with intent or with means
and preparations to do an unlawful act which would be riot if actually
committed, but do not act toward the commission there, or whenever such persons
assemble without authority of law, and in such a manner as is adapted to
disturb the public peace, or excite public alarm, such assembly is an unlawful
assembly. (2018 Code)
6-5B-3: DISTURBING FUNERALS:
Every person who wilfully disturbs, interrupts or disquiets any assemblage of
people met for the purpose of any funeral, or who, without authority of law,
obstructs or detains any persons engaged in carrying or accompanying any dead
body of a human being to a place of burial, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (2018
Code)
6-5B-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof,
he:
   A.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
   B.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   C.   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
   D.   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
   E.   Uses "fighting words" directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
   F.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
   G.   By acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation. (2014 Code § 10-403)
6-5B-5: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A.   Definition: "Reckless conduct", as used in this section, consists of an
act which creates a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or
great bodily harm to another and which demonstrates a conscious disregard for
the safety of another.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to endanger another's safety
by reckless conduct in the operation or handling of any weapon or instrument,
including a pistol, revolver or other firearm. (2014 Code § 10-204)
6-5B-6: NOISY CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the Town.
   B.   Permits may be granted by the Town for certain activities and events
which are exempt from the provisions of this section. (2014 Code § 10-404)
6-5B-7: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the
meaning prescribed by law, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622.
   B.   Possession; Discharges:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to possess, discharge or ignite any
fireworks, including any small display ground pieces, cones, cap pistols,
cannons or other appliances using caps containing chlorate or pot ash mixture,
or any other piece defined by Oklahoma law as a firework at any time except
July 3 through July 6.
      2.   State laws and the Town Fire Code governing the discharge of
fireworks shall be fully applicable in the Town and enforceable as offenses
against the Town.
   C.   Sales: It is unlawful for any person to sell fireworks in the Town at
any time other than June 15 through July 6. (2018 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES INVOLVING DECENCY AND MORALITY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: False Representation Of Physical Disabilities
6-5C-2: False Representation Of Age
6-5C-3: Loitering To Watch Occupants
6-5C-4: Obscene, Threatening, Harassing Communications
6-5C-5: Disorderly House
6-5C-6: Lewd Conduct
6-5C-7: Gambling
6-5C-8: Pandering; House Of Prostitution
6-5C-9: Conduct Near Schools
6-5C-1: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF PHYSICAL DISABILITIES:
No person shall falsely represent himself as blind, deaf, crippled or
physically disabled for the purpose of obtaining money or other things of
value, or to secure aid or assistance on account of such false representation.
(2014 Code § 10-506; amd. 2018 Code)
6-5C-2: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person, for the purpose of
violating any Statutes of Oklahoma, to wilfully and knowingly misrepresent his
age by presenting a false document purporting to state his true age.
   B.   Violation; Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of subsection
A of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00), or shall be confined to the County Jail for a period of not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and confinement.
   C.   Provisions Cumulative: The provisions of this section shall be
cumulative to existing laws. (2018 Code)
6-5C-3: LOITERING TO WATCH OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Every person who hides, waits or otherwise loiters in the vicinity of
any private dwelling house, apartment building, any other place of residence,
or in the vicinity of any locker room, dressing room, restroom or any other
place where a person has a right to reasonable expectation of privacy, with the
unlawful and wilful intent to watch, gaze, or look upon any person in a
clandestine manner shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Every person who uses photographic, electronic or video equipment in a
clandestine manner for any illegal, illegitimate, prurient, lewd or lascivious
purpose with the unlawful and wilful intent to view, watch, gaze or look upon
any person without the knowledge and consent of such person when the person
viewed is in a place where there is a right to a reasonable expectation of
privacy, publishes or distributes any image obtained from such act shall, upon
conviction, be punishable accordingly.
   C.   Every person who uses photographic, electronic or video equipment in a
clandestine manner for any illegal, illegitimate, prurient, lewd or lascivious
purpose with the unlawful and wilful intent to view, watch, gaze or look upon
any person and capture an image of a private area of a person without the
knowledge and consent of such person and knowingly does so under circumstances
in which a reasonable person would believe that the private area of the person
would not be visible to the public, regardless of whether the person is in a
public or private place shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2018 Code)
6-5C-4: OBSCENE, THREATENING, HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person who, by means of a telecommunication
or other electronic communication device, wilfully either:
      1.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
      2.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication with
intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
      3.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, with intent to put the party called in fear of
physical harm or death;
      4.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the person
making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or
harass any person at the called number;
      5.   Knowingly permits any telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this section; and
      6.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes repeated
calls or electronic communications or simultaneous calls or electronic
communications solely to harass any person at the called number(s).
   B.   As used in this section, "telecommunication" and "electronic
communication" mean any type of telephonic, electronic or radio communications,
or transmission of signs, signals, data, writings, images and sounds or
intelligence of any nature by telephone, including cellular telephones, wire,
cable, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo- optical system or the
creation, display, management, storage, processing, transmission or
distribution of images, text, voice, video or data by wire, cable or wireless
means, including the internet. The term includes:
      1.   A communication initiated by electronic mail, instant message,
network call, or facsimile machine; and
      2.   A communication made to a pager.
   C.   Use of a telephone or other electronic communications facility under
this section shall include all use made of such a facility between the points
of origin and reception. Any offense under this section is a continuing offense
and shall be deemed to have been committed at either the place of origin or the
place of reception. (2018 Code)
6-5C-5: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
Every person who keeps any disorderly house, or any house of public resort by
which the peace, comfort or decency of the immediate neighborhood is habitually
disturbed, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (2018 Code)
6-5C-6: LEWD CONDUCT:
   A.   No person shall wilfully and knowingly either:
      1.   Lewdly expose his or her person or genitals in any public place, or
in any place where there are present other persons to be offended or annoyed
thereby; provided, however, for purposes of this section, a person alleged to
have committed an act of public urination shall be prosecuted accordingly
unless such act was accompanied with another act that violates subsections A2,
A3 and A4 of this section and shall not be subject to registration under the
Sex Offenders Registration Act;
      2.   Procure, counsel, or assist any person to expose such person, or to
make any other exhibition of such person to public view or to the view of any
number of persons, for the purpose of sexual stimulation of the viewer;
      3.   Write, compose, stereotype, print, photograph, design, copy, draw,
engrave, paint, mold, cut, or otherwise prepare, publish, sell, distribute,
keep for sale, knowingly download on a computer, or exhibit any obscene
material or child pornography; or
      4.   Make, prepare, cut, sell, give, loan, distribute, keep for sale, or
exhibit any disc record, metal, plastic, or wax, wire or tape recording, or any
type of obscene material or child pornography.
   B.   Every person who:
      1.   Wilfully solicits or aids a minor child to perform; or
      2.   Shows, exhibits, loans, or distributes to a minor child any obscene
material or child pornography for the purpose of inducing said minor to
participate in any act specified in subsection A of this section shall, upon
conviction, be punishable accordingly.
   C.   Persons convicted under this section shall not be eligible for a
deferred sentence.
   D.   For purposes of this section, "downloading on a computer" means
electronically transferring an electronic file from one computer or electronic
media to another computer or electronic media. (2018 Code)
6-5C-7: GAMBLING:
Except as provided in the Oklahoma Charity Games Act, no person shall open, or
cause to be opened, or conduct, whether for hire or not, or carry on either
poker, roulette, craps or any banking or percentage, or any gambling game
played with dice, cards or any device, for money, checks, credits, or any
representatives of value, or either as owner or employee, whether for hire or
not, deal for those engaged in any such game. (2018 Code)
6-5C-8: PANDERING; HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ANAL INTERCOURSE: Contact between human beings of the genital organs of one
and the anus of another.
   CHILD PROSTITUTION: Prostitution or lewdness as defined in this subsection
with a person under sixteen (16) years of age in exchange for money or any
other thing of value.
   LEWDNESS: 1. Any lascivious, lustful or licentious conduct;
      2.   The giving or receiving of the body for indiscriminate sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse, or
lascivious, lustful or licentious conduct with any person not his or her
spouse; or
      3.   Any act in furtherance of such conduct or any appointment or
engagement for prostitution.
   MASTURBATION: Stimulation of the genital organs by manual or other bodily
contact exclusive of sexual intercourse.
   PROSTITUTION:
      1.   The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value.
   B.   Pandering: No person shall procure any other person for prostitution,
or by promise, threats, violence or by any device or scheme shall cause,
induce, persuade or encourage another person to become a prostitute; or shall
procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for another person; or
shall, by promise, threats, violence, or by any device or scheme cause, induce,
persuade or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain therein as
such inmate; or shall, by fraud, or artifice, or by duress of person or goods,
or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority procure any other person
to become a prostitute, or to enter any place in which prostitution is
encouraged or allowed within this State, or to come into this State or leave
this State for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure any other person,
who has not previously practiced prostitution to become a prostitute within
this State, or to come into this State or leave this State for the purpose of
prostitution; or shall receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or
thing of value for procuring or attempting to procure any other person to
become an inmate of a house of prostitution within this State, or to come into
this State or leave this State for the purpose of prostitution.
   C.   House Of Prostitution: Every person who keeps any bawdy house, house of
ill fame, of assignation, or of prostitution, or any other house or place for
persons to visit for unlawful sexual intercourse, or for any other lewd,
obscene or indecent purpose is, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable accordingly. (2018 Code)
6-5C-9: CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOLS:
No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set forth
around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent
to any school:
   A.   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
   B.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   C.   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any of the schools or school
grounds or streets and alleys adjacent to the schools;
   D.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
   E.   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest any
student or employee of such school. (2014 Code § 10-514)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Consuming Or Inhaling Intoxicants In Public; Public Intoxication
6-5D-2: Controlled Substances And Paraphernalia
6-5D-1: CONSUMING OR INHALING INTOXICANTS IN PUBLIC; PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
Any person who shall, in any public place, or in or upon any vehicle commonly
used for the transportation of passengers, drink or otherwise consume any
intoxicating liquor unless authorized by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, intoxicating substance, or intoxicating compound of any kind, or
inhale glue, paint or other intoxicating substance, or if any person shall be
drunk or intoxicated in any public or private road, or in any vehicle, or any
public place or building, or any public gathering, from drinking or consuming
such intoxicating liquor, intoxicating substance or intoxicating compound or
from inhalation of glue, paint or other intoxicating substance, or if any
person shall be drunk or intoxicated from any cause and shall disturb the peace
of any person, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or by imprisonment for not less
than five (5) days nor more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (2018 Code)
6-5D-2: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ADMINISTER: Shall be as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101.
   CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE: Shall be as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-101.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY: Shall be as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-
101.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   1.   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation
of State law. The term includes, but is not limited to:
      a. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance can be
derived.
      b. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
dangerous substances.
      c. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous
substance.
      d. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
dangerous substances.
      e. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled dangerous substances.
      f. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled dangerous substances.
      g. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana.
      h. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used, intended
for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances.
      i. Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended for
use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous
substances.
      j. Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled dangerous substances.
      k. Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for use,
or designed for use in injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human
body.
      l. Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (1) Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes,
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls.
         (2) Water pipes.
         (3) Carburetion tubes and devices.
         (4) Smoking and carburetion masks.
         (5) Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand.
         (6) Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials.
         (7) Chamber pipes.
         (8) Carburetor pipes.
         (9) Electric pipes.
         (10) Air driven pipes.
         (11) Chillums.
         (12) Bongs.
         (13) Ice pipes or chillers.
   2.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      a. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
         b. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled dangerous
substance.
      c. The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of this section or of the State Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act.
      d. The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances.
      e. The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances on the
object.
      f. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section or the State Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act. The
innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct
violation of this section shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use, as drug paraphernalia.
      g. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use.
      h. Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use.
      i. National and local advertising concerning its use.
      j. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
      k. Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
      l. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      m. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      n. Expert testimony concerning its use.
   MARIJUANA: Shall be as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101.
   SALE: Includes barter, exchange or gift, or offer therefor, and each such
transaction made by any person, principal, proprietor, agent, servant or
employee.
   B.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to
possess any of the following controlled dangerous substances unless such
substance was obtained directly or pursuant to a valid prescription or order
from a practitioner while acting in the course of his professional practice, or
except as authorized by State law:
      1.   Any substance listed in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-208, 2-209 or
2-210; or
      2.   Any marijuana; or
      3.   Any substance included in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-206,
subsection D.
   C.   Implements For Controlled Dangerous Substances: It is unlawful for any
person to:
      1.   Use, or possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
dangerous substance in violation of this section or State law.
      2.   Deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with intent
to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in
violation of this section or State law.
      3.   Place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any
advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote
the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. (2018
Code)
   D.   Children And Drugs:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to
possess controlled dangerous substance unless such substance was obtained
directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order from a practitioner,
while acting in the course of his or her professional practice, or except as
otherwise authorized by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-402, as amended by
section 3, State question no. 780, petition no. 404.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase any preparation
excepted from the provisions of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act
pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-313 in an amount or within a time
interval other than that permitted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-313.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to sell, market,
advertise or label any product containing ephedrine, its salts, optical
isomers, or salts of optical isomers, for the indication of stimulation, mental
alertness, weight loss, appetite control, muscle development, energy or other
indication which is not approved by the pertinent Federal OTC Final Monograph,
Tentative Final Monograph, or FDA approved new drug application or its legal
equivalent. In determining compliance with this requirement, the following
factors shall be considered:
            (1)   The packaging of the product;
            (2)   The name of the product; and
            (3)   The distribution and promotion of the product, including
verbal representations made at the point of sale.
   E.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by confinement for not more than one (1) year and by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). All other fines, amounts, code
sections, references and descriptions shall remain unchanged.
      2. Any person convicted of any offense described in this section shall,
in addition to any fine imposed, pay a special assessment trauma care fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) to be deposited into the Trauma Care Assistance
Revolving Fund created in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-2530.9. (Ord. 2017-01,
7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 2020-05, 9-14-2020)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Escape; Attempt To Escape
6-5E-2: Aid In Escape
6-5E-3: Delivering Articles To Prisoners
6-5E-4: Resisting, Assaulting Public Officials
6-5E-5: Obedience To Police And Fire Personnel
6-5E-6: Eluding Police
6-5E-7: Duty To Assist Police
6-5E-8: Use Of Siren Or Whistle
6-5E-9: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-5E-10: False Statements, Reports Or Complaints
6-5E-11: False Alarms
6-5E-12: Duties Of Public At Fires And Emergencies
6-5E-13: Signs And Equipment
6-5E-1: ESCAPE; ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE:
No person lawfully in custody or confined in the Town Jail, before or after
conviction for any violation of the ordinances of the Town, or held in custody
going to the Town Jail, or working upon the streets or other public grounds of
the Town or in custody of any officer of the Town, shall break or attempt to
break such Town Jail or custody, and escape or attempt to escape therefrom.
(2014 Code § 10-601)
6-5E-2: AID IN ESCAPE:
   A.   No person shall convey into the Town Jail any disguised instrument or
anything proper or useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner lawfully
committed to or detained in the Town Jail for any violation of the Town
ordinances, for any criminal offense, or lawfully detained or imprisoned
therein, whether such escape is effected or attempted or not. (2014 Code § 10-
602)
   B.   No person shall in any way aid, remove or assist any person to resist
or escape from custody of any police officer or from any lawful confinement in
the Town. (2014 Code § 10-603)
6-5E-3: DELIVERING ARTICLES TO PRISONERS:
No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest without
the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner. (2014
Code § 10-604)
6-5E-4: RESISTING, ASSAULTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    OBSTRUCTION OF: Shall, in addition to its common meaning, include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is restrained; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity. (2014 Code § 10-606; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
         a.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the Town in
the discharge of his official duties;
         b.   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to
intimidate any officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties;
or
         c.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use
abusive or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while
such officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (2014 Code
§ 10-615)
      2.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, prevent, fail to
cooperate with or in any way interfere with a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of the Town.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer. (2014 Code § 10-606)
      4.   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and
battery on any Town official or police officer or firefighter while in the
performance of his duties. (2014 Code § 10-605)
6-5E-5: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL:
No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare. (2014 Code § 10-608)
6-5E-6: ELUDING POLICE:
No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible signal, a
red light or a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle, showing the
same to be an official police, Sheriff or highway patrol or State game ranger
car directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, shall wilfully
increase his speed or extinguish his lights to elude or attempt to elude such
police officer, or attempt in any other manner to elude the police officer.
(2014 Code § 10-609; amd. 2018 Code)
6-5E-7: DUTY TO ASSIST POLICE:
It is duty of all persons in the Town when called upon by any police officer to
promptly aid and assist him in the execution of his duties. (2014 Code § 10-
607)
6-5E-8: USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE:
   A.   No person shall use any police whistle or any other instrument used by
a police officer to give signals to each other, or imitate any signal given by
one police officer to another or any special signal used by police officers,
for the purpose of improperly or causelessly attracting the attention of the
police. (2014 Code § 10-610)
   B.   No person, except members of Police Department, Fire Department or
other emergency services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong, siren,
whistle or any other device for making similar noise. (2014 Code § 10-610; amd.
2018 Code)
6-5E-9: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
   A.   No person, other than police officers of the Town, shall wear or carry
the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to or a colorable imitation of that adopted and worn or
carried by the police officers of the Town.
   B.   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
   C.   It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any officer or employee of the
Town, or falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the Town, by
any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing or conduct, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the Town without being authorized to do so. (2014 Code §
10-611)
6-5E-10: FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   No person shall knowingly make or file, or cause to be made or filed, a
false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
the Police Department or any officer or employee of the Town, or on any
official application or commit perjury before any tribunal of the Town.
   B.   No person shall wilfully and without probable cause make a false report
to any person of any crime, violation of the Town's ordinances, or
circumstances indicating the possibility of crime or violation having been
committed including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal
property, which report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other
official action or investigation. (2014 Code § 10-612)
6-5E-11: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   No person shall knowingly or maliciously turn in or cause to be turned
in a false alarm. Any person, business entity or corporation, or any agents or
employees thereof, which shall make a false alarm in bad faith, meaning they
knew or should have known that the alarm was false, shall incur a call charge
of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Any person or any business entity or corporation, or any agents or
employees thereof, shall be allowed two (2) alarm responses per calendar year,
without charge, if said alarms are given in the reasonable and good faith
belief that an emergency does exist. A third alarm in a calendar year from the
same person, including the same business entity or corporation, or any agents
or employees thereof, shall incur a charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the call, regardless of whether the said third false alarm is made in good
faith. (2018 Code)
6-5E-12: DUTIES OF PUBLIC AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES:
   A.   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and assist in maintaining law and
order.
   B.   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself in a
disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order of the Fire
Chief or his assistants relative to such fire; and no person shall resist,
obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the Fire Department or any firefighter
in the proper discharge of his duty. (2014 Code § 10-616)
   C.   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep all persons who are
in the way or impeding the work of the Fire Department away from the location
and, so far as possible, protect all property from loss or injury, and
cooperate with and assist the Fire Department in every way possible while at
the fire. The Fire Chief or any Assistant Fire Chief or any police officer
shall have the power to designate persons to guard any goods. (2014 Code § 10-
616; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency. (2014 Code § 10-616)
6-5E-13: SIGNS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Tampering With Signs And Equipment: It is unlawful for any person to
tamper with any signs, signal equipment or other device placed, operated and
maintained by the Town in connection with the administration of its Code
provisions, ordinances, regulations, services, functions or performance of
duties thereto. (2014 Code § 10-617)
   B.   Removal Of Barricades: It is unlawful for any person, except by proper
authority, to remove any barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the
Town to keep traffic off any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(2014 Code § 10-614)
   C.   Public Works Construction:
      1.   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs, or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the Town to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or benchmarks on any
public work in the Town prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
      2.   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the
Town shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for
any person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the Town. (2014 Code § 10-313)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew Regulations
6-6-2: Truancy
6-6-3: Contributing To Delinquency Of Minor
6-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the CURFEW
ORDINANCE or REGULATION OF THE PRESENCE AND CONDUCT OF MINORS ON STREETS AND
PUBLIC PLACES.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
    CURFEW HOURS: Ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday, and one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M.
Saturday and Sunday, until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the same day.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18), except as set out in this
Code in regards to low point beer and/or intoxicating beverages.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor as:
      1.   A natural or adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
      2.   A legal guardian;
      3.   A person under court order who is the guardian of the person or
minor placed by a court;
      4.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court; or
      5.   A person who stands in loco parentis.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
common areas of schools, apartment buildings and shops, or place to which the
general public has access and a right to resort for business, entertainment, or
other lawful purpose. The term shall also include the front or immediate area
of the above.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay unnecessarily in a public place; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises of an establishment or a public place when
asked by a law enforcement officer or other person in control of the
establishment or public place.
   STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or, in the case of a
sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term "street" includes the legal
right- of-way including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right- of-way of a street.
   YEAR OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to, but
not including, the day of the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent
to the phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age".
   C.   Exceptions To Curfew: In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a
Town street during the nocturnal hours for which the definition of "curfew
hours" in subsection A of this section is intended to provide the maximum
limits of regulation shall not, however, be considered in violation of this
section:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take the parent's place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
      3.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly;
      4.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in the
minor's possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor, evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including points of origin and
destination;
      5.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      6.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 30 minutes
of the termination of) a school activity, or activity of a religious or
voluntary association, provided the minor has a written communication in the
minor's possession, countersigned by a parent, indicating the home address and
telephone number, the purpose for the event, and when, where and in what manner
the minor will be on the streets at night;
      7.   When authorized by regulation issued by the Town Board in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled but adopted to
necessary nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on
an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the Town Board
permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than thirty
(30) minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity, and the reason
for finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with
the public interest and the purposes of this section;
      8.   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment
and his hours of employment, or carries a valid proof of employment which may
include the latest payroll receipt not over thirty (30) days old; or
      9.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. This clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the Town, particularly on normal routes. (2014 Code § 10-505; amd. 2018
Code)
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for a parent
having legal custody of a minor knowingly to permit or by inefficient control
to allow such minor to be or remain upon any Town street under circumstances
not constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this
section. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
parent's legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonably community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, a fortiori, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of such minor.
   E.   Responsibility Of Business Owner: It shall be unlawful for any person
operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly allow, permit or
suffer the presence of minors in violation of the curfew established by this
section. (2014 Code § 10-505)
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   Upon finding or having attention called to any minor on the streets
in prima facie violation of this section, a police officer of the Town shall
normally take the minor to the Town Jail or County Sheriff's Office, or other
place designated by the Chief of Police, where a parent shall immediately be
notified to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be interviewed. This is
intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant
facts, and to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for
accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording,
thus making available experienced supervisory personnel, the best facilities
and access to information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence
such as a birth certificate, a police officer on the street shall, in the first
instance, use his best judgment in determining age. Police procedures shall
constantly be refined in light of experience and may provide, inter alia, that
the police officer may deliver to a parent thereof a minor under appropriate
circumstances. For example, a minor of tender age near home whose identity may
readily be ascertained or is known. In any event, such police officer shall,
within twenty four (24) hours, file a written report with the Chief of Police.
The report shall be treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with
State Statutes; (2014 Code § 10-505; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that, in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent; or
      3.   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Chief of Police
shall cause to be personally delivered or by certified mail, send to a parent
written notice of violation with a warning that any subsequent violation shall
result in full enforcement of this section, including enforcement of parental
responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   G.   Penalty: If, after the warning notice pursuant to subsection F3 of this
section of a first violation by a minor, a parent violates subsection D of this
section (in connection with a second violation by the minor), this shall be
treated as an offense by the parent. The penalty upon a plea of guilty, nolo
contendere, or finding of guilt shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 10-505)
6-6-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   Truancy Prohibited: It is unlawful for:
      1.   Any parent, guardian, or other person who has custody of a minor
child over the age of five (5) years and under the age of eighteen (18) years,
to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child, who is subject to
compulsory education of public, private or other school:
         a.   For said minor child to be absent from school during times as
school is in session in excess of ten (10) unexcused absences each semester;
and/or
         b.   To be absent from school during such times as school is in
session four (4) or more days or parts of days within a four (4) week period
without a valid excuse.
      2.   Any minor child over the age of twelve (12) years and under the age
of eighteen (18) years to neglect or refuse to attend and be absent from
school, when said child is subject to compulsory education of public, private
or other school, during such times as school is in session:
         a.   In excess of ten (10) unexcused absences each semester; and/or
         b.   To be absent four (4) or more days or parts of days within a four
(4) week period without a valid excuse.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply when:
      1.   The minor has in his or her possession a written excuse from the
minor's parent(s), legal guardian(s), or other adult person(s) having the legal
care or custody of said minor or otherwise being in loco parentis, which excuse
provides a reasonable expectation, as determined by the court, for the minor's
absence from school.
      2.   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent(s), legal guardian(s),
or other adult person(s) having the legal care or custody of said minor or
otherwise being in loco parentis.
      3.   The minor is on an emergency errand directed by his or her parent
(s), legal guardian(s), or other adult person(s) having the legal care or
custody of said minor or otherwise being in loco parentis.
      4.   The minor is going directly to, or returning directly from a medical
appointment, a school sponsored extracurricular activity, a school sponsored
educational activity, authorized employment, or other authorized event for
which proper documentation may be shown.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Violation of subsection A of this section shall be punishable by a
fine as follows:
         a.   For the first offense, a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisonment for not
more than five (5) days, or both such fine and imprisonment;
         b.   For the second offense, a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or imprisonment for not
more than ten (10) days, or both such fine and imprisonment; and
         c.   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or
imprisonment for not more than fifteen (15) days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
      2.   Each day the child remains out of school after the oral and
documented or written warning has been given to the parent, guardian,
custodian, child or other person, or the child has been ordered to school by
the court, shall constitute a separate offense.
   D.   Court Proceedings; Appeals:
      1.   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
court by any authorized employee of the school district.
      2.   The court may order the parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child to perform community service in lieu of the fine set forth
in this section. The court may require that all or part of the community
service be performed for a public school district.
      3.   The court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child any conditions as the court considers necessary to
obtain compliance with school attendance requirements. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
         b.   Attending meetings with school officials;
         c.   Taking the child to school;
         d.   Taking the child to the bus stop;
         e.   Attending school with the child;
         f.   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol, or other substance
abuse and following the recommendations of the evaluator;
         g.   Taking the child for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
evaluation and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused
by the court; and
         h.   Individual or family counseling, including the child and all
members of the immediate family or other persons as the court may order,
and court costs; provided, however, the court may suspend the fine, or any
portion thereof, at the court's discretion.
      4.   Furthermore, the sentencing powers of the court shall include
discretion in the sentencing of the minor for up to thirty (30) hours'
community service by the minor under the same conditions as provided in
subsection D2 of this section, or such other and further conditions as the
court may proscribe.
      5.   Any appeal of the court's decision shall be made to the District
Court as in other proceedings before the Municipal Court.
   E.   Parental Obligation To Attend Hearing: A minor cited for an infraction
under this section shall be required to attend a court hearing on the
infraction and shall be accompanied at the hearing by his or her parent(s),
legal guardian(s), or other adult person(s) having the legal care or custody of
said minor or otherwise being in loco parentis. If any such person fails to
appear with the minor, the court shall continue the hearing and shall issue
process to said person directing that person to appear at the continued hearing
with the minor.
   F.   Liability For Costs: Upon conviction for the violation of truancy laws
by a minor, the parent(s), legal guardian(s), or other adult person(s) having
the legal care or custody of said minor or otherwise being in loco parentis
shall be jointly and severally liable for the cost of providing the costs of
detention, transportation, processing, medical treatment, and supervision of
the minor incurred by the Town. The Municipal Court shall hold a hearing after
notice to the necessary parties and make orders for the same as may be provided
by law. The appeal of any order concerning costs under this subsection shall be
made to the District Court of Mayes County as in other proceedings before the
Municipal Court. (2018 Code)
6-6-3: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINOR:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ANY PERSON: Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Prohibition: Any person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid,
abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent child, as
defined by State law, shall be guilty of an offense. (2014 Code § 10-516)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: A violation of the provisions of this section by
any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 10-113)
ARTICLE A. LOUD, UNRULY GATHERINGS; SOCIAL HOSTING
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Definitions
6-6A-2: Responsibility For Proper Property Management; Violation; Penalties
6-6A-3: Response Costs
6-6A-4: Reservation Of Legal Options
6-6A-5: Appeals
6-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl alcohol, or spirits of wine,
from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Ethyl alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (1/2%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. The term includes intoxicating beverages and low point beer
as defined herein.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
LOUD OR UNRULY GATHERING: A party or gathering of two (2) or more persons at or
on a residence or other private property upon which loud or unruly conduct
occurs. Such loud or unruly conduct includes, but is not limited to, excessive
noise, excessive traffic, obstruction of public streets or crowds that have
spilled into public streets; public drunkenness or unlawful public consumption
of alcohol or alcoholic beverages; service to or consumption of alcohol or
alcoholic beverages by any minor, except as permitted by State law; assaults,
batteries, fights, domestic violence or other disturbances of the peace;
vandalism; litter; and any other conduct which constitutes a threat to public
health, safety, quiet enjoyment of residential property or general welfare.
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight including, but not limited to beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar product.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
RESIDENCE OR OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTY: A home, yard, apartment, condominium,
hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling,
party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented or used with
or without compensation.
RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement, fire
and other emergency response providers to loud or unruly gatherings including,
but not limited to:
   A.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, fire or other emergency
response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to, remaining at, or
otherwise dealing with loud or unruly gatherings, and the administrative costs
attributable to such response(s);
   B.   The cost of any medical treatment to or for any law enforcement, fire
or other emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering; or to or for a tenant or
lessee of the residence or other private property;
   C.   The cost of repairing any Town equipment or property damaged, and the
cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a loud or unruly gathering.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON:
   A.   A person or persons with a right of possession in the residence or
other private property on which a loud or unruly gathering is conducted,
including, but not limited to:
      1. An owner of the residence or other private property;
      2. The landlord of another person responsible for the gathering;
      3. The person(s) in charge of the residence or other private property;
and
      4. The person(s) who organizes, supervises, officiates, conducts or
controls the gathering or any other person(s) accepting responsibility for such
a gathering.
   B.   If a responsible person of the gathering is a juvenile, then the
parents or guardians of that juvenile and the juvenile will be jointly and
severally liable for the response costs incurred pursuant to this article. To
incur liability for response costs imposed by this article, the responsible
person for the loud or unruly gathering need not be present at such gathering
resulting in the response giving rise to the imposition of response costs. This
article, therefore, imposes vicarious as well as direct liability upon a
responsible person. (2018 Code)
6-6A-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPER PROPERTY MANAGEMENT; VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Every owner, occupant, lessee or holder of any possessory interest of a
residence or other private property within the Town is required to maintain,
manage and supervise the property and all persons thereon in a manner so as not
to violate the provisions of this article. The owner of the property remains
liable for such violations regardless of any contract or agreement with any
third party regarding the property.
   B.   It shall be an infraction of 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 8.2, Cody's
Law, for alcohol or low point beer to be provided to a minor. Cody's Law reads:
"No person shall knowingly and willfully permit any individual under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is an invitee to the person's residence, any building,
structure, or room owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person
or on any land owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person, to
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage as defined by Section 506 of this
title, any low-point beer as defined by Section 163.2 of this title, any
controlled dangerous substance as defined in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous
Substances Act, or any combination thereof, in such place".
   C.   1. Any person who is convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for the first offense and shall
be punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   The penalty and fine prescribed in this subsection is in addition to
any response costs that may be assessed pursuant to this article. (2018 Code)
6-6A-3: RESPONSE COSTS:
   A.   Recovery:
      1.   When a law enforcement, fire or other emergency response provider
responds to a loud or unruly gathering at a residence or other private property
within the Town and a ticket is provided to a responsible person for a loud or
unruly gathering or social host violation, all responsible persons shall be
jointly and severally liable for the Town's costs of providing response for
that response and subsequent responses.
      2.   When a law enforcement, fire or other emergency response provider
official makes an initial response to a loud or unruly gathering at a residence
or other private property within the Town, the official shall inform any
responsible person(s) for the gathering at the scene that:
         a.   The official has determined that a loud or unruly gathering or
social host violation exists; and
         b.   Responsible person(s) will be charged for any response costs
required at the scene for a loud or unruly gathering or social host violation.
   B.   Liability For Costs; Notice:
      1.   The amount of response cost shall be deemed a debt owed to the Town
by the responsible person held liable for the loud or unruly gathering and/or
social host violation and if a juvenile, by the juvenile's parents or
guardians. Any person owing such cost shall be liable in a civil action brought
in the name of the Town for recovery for such fees, including reasonable
attorney fees.
      2.   Notice of the cost for which the responsible person is liable shall
be mailed via first class and/or certified mail within fourteen (14) days of
the response giving rise to such cost. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The name of the person(s) being held liable for the payment of
such cost;
         b.   The address of the residence or other private property where the
loud or unruly gathering occurred;
         c.   The date and time of the response;
         d.   The law enforcement, fire or emergency service provider who
responded;
         e.   The date and time of any previous responses to loud and unruly
gatherings and/or social host violations at the residence or other private
property in question within the previous twenty four (24) months; and
         f.   An itemized list of response cost for which the person is being
held liable.
   C.   Payment Of Costs: The responsible person must remit payment of the
noticed response cost to the Town Court Clerk within thirty (30) days of the
date of the notice. Response cost collected will be added to the Town Police
Department and Town Fire Department budgets. (2018 Code)
6-6A-4: RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as a waiver by the Town of
any right to seek reimbursement for actual cost of response services through
other legal remedies or procedures. The procedure provided in this article is
in addition to any other statute, ordinance or law, civil or criminal.
   B.   This article in no way limits the authority of peace officers or
private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of
conduct regulated by this article. (2018 Code)
6-6A-5: APPEALS:
Any person upon who is imposed a penalty and/or response cost recovery fees
shall have the right to appeal the imposition of such penalty or fees to the
Town pursuant to the procedures established by the Town for appealing the
abatement of public nuisances. (2018 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Scope
7-1-3: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-4: Definitions
7-1-5: Application Of Provisions
7-1-6: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
7-1-7: Driver And Vehicle License Requirements
7-1-8: Insurance Requirements; Exemptions
7-1-9: Accidents
7-1-10: Improvements On Public Ways; Street Closures
7-1-11: Transporting Loaded Firearm
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title, and all amendments hereto, may be cited or referred to as the
TRAFFIC CODE, TOWN OF LOCUST GROVE, and may so appear upon all official
documents and records. (2014 Code § 15-101)
7-1-2: SCOPE:
Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, this title
shall be controlling and apply to the use of Town streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways, public parking lots, school driveways, streets,
parking lots, or any other public rights-of-way or Municipally owned land,
including streets and other ways that form the boundary line of the Town, by
pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind, whether self-propelled or otherwise
and whether moving or at rest. (2014 Code § 15-102)
7-1-3: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 101 et seq., and the Rules of the Road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and
are enforceable by the Town within the Town limits as fully as if set out at
length herein.
   B.   The provisions and definitions contained in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 1-101 through 1-186 are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference, applicable to control traffic and to this title. (2014 Code § 15-
104)
7-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of platted
blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear of
stores, dwellings, or buildings.
AMBULANCE: Any ground, air or water vehicle which is or should be approved by
the Commissioner of Health, designed and equipped to transport a patient or
patients and to provide appropriate on scene and en route patient stabilization
and care as required. Vehicles used as ambulances shall meet such standards as
may be required by the State Board of Health for approval, and shall display
evidence of such approval at all times.
BICYCLE: A. A device upon which any person or persons may ride, propelled
solely by human power through a belt, chain, or gears, and having two (2) or
more wheels, excluding mopeds. A "bicycle" shall include tricycles, quadcycles,
or similar human powered devices, electric assisted bicycles and motorized
bicycles unless otherwise specifically indicated.
   B.   An electric assisted bicycle is any bicycle with:
      1. Two (2) or three (3) wheels; and
      2. Fully operative pedals for human propulsion and equipped with an
electric motor:
         a. With a power output not to exceed one thousand (1,000) watts;
         b. Incapable of propelling the device at a speed of more than thirty
(30) miles per hour on level ground; and
         c. Incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when human
power alone is used to propel the device at a speed of thirty (30) miles per
hour or more.
An electric assisted bicycle shall meet the requirements of the Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards as set forth in Federal regulations and shall operate
in such a manner that the electric motor disengages or ceases to function when
the brakes are applied.
   C.   A motorized bicycle is any bicycle having:
      1. Fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power;
       2. A power drive system that functions directly or automatically without
clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged; and
      3. A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of eighty (80)
cubic centimeters or less, regardless of the number of chambers in the engine,
which is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of not
more than thirty five (35) miles per hour on level ground.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway if there
are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for business
or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least three
hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet (300')
collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not marked
and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or traveled portion of the roadway. If vehicles be
parked on each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced
from the edges of the parked vehicles. Violations applicable to this definition
are defined and incorporated herein under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-301,
subsections A and B.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Class A Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any combination of vehicles, except a Class D
motor vehicle, with a gross combined weight rating of twenty six thousand one
(26,001) or more pounds, provided the gross vehicle weight rating of the
vehicle or vehicles being towed is in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
Class B Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any single vehicle, except a Class D motor
vehicle, with a gross vehicle weight rating of twenty six thousand one (26,001)
or more pounds, or any such vehicle towing a vehicle not in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight rating. This class shall apply to
a bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of twenty six thousand one (26,001) or
more pounds and designed to transport sixteen (16) or more persons, including
the driver.
Class C Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any single vehicle or combination of
vehicles, other than a Class A or Class B vehicle as defined herein, which is:
   A.   Required to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172,
subpart F; or
   B.   Designed by the manufacturer to transport sixteen (16) or more persons,
including the driver.
Class D Motor Vehicle: A. Any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles which:
      1. Regardless of weight:
         a. Is marked and used as an authorized emergency vehicle, as defined
in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103; or
         b. Is designed and used solely as a recreational vehicle;
      2. Is a single or combination vehicle with a gross combined weight rating
of less than twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds;
      3. Is a single or combination farm vehicle with a gross combined weight
rating of more than twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds if:
         a. It is entitled to be registered with a farm tag and has a farm tag
attached thereto;
         b. It is controlled and operated by a farmer, his or her family or
employees;
         c. It is used to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, farm supplies or any combination of those materials to or from a
farm;
         d. It is not used in the operations of a common or contract motor
carrier; and
         e. It is used within one hundred fifty (150) air miles of the person's
farm or as otherwise provided by Federal law; or
      4. Is operated by a licensed driver employed by a unit of local
government that operates a commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of
that unit of local government for the purpose of removing snow or ice from a
roadway by plowing, sanding or salting, if:
         a. The properly licensed employee who ordinarily operates a commercial
vehicle for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle; or
         b. The employing governmental entity determines that a snow or ice
emergency requires additional assistance.
   B.   A Class D motor vehicle shall not include any vehicle which is:
      1. Designed to carry sixteen (16) or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      2. Required to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49 CFR, part
172, subpart F; provided, a farm vehicle, as defined in subsection A3 of this
definition, which is required to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49
CFR, part 172, subpart F, shall be considered to be a Class D motor vehicle.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of the roadway at
an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
DOUBLE PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge of the curbing of the roadway.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
   A.   When equipped as prescribed in subsection B of this definition:
      1. Vehicles of Fire Departments;
       2. Ambulances or vehicles specified pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-2512, subsection B, of licensed ambulance service providers;
      3. State vehicles of law enforcement agencies;
      4. County vehicles of Sheriffs and full time commissioned deputies and
vehicles designated by the Sheriff for support of the Sheriff's Office
including privately owned vehicles driven by the Sheriff and full time, part
time and reserve commissioned deputies; provided, the audible sirens and
flashing red lights equipped on such privately owned vehicles are used only in
a law enforcement capacity and in the course of duty;
      5. Municipal vehicles of Police Departments;
      6. Vehicles owned and operated by the United States Marshals Service or
the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
      7. Vehicles of the Oklahoma National Guard units designated by the
Adjutant General for support to civil authorities; or
      8. Vehicles owned and operated by any local organization for emergency
management as defined by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 683.3,
are authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   All vehicles prescribed in subsection A of this definition shall be
equipped with sirens capable of giving audible signals as required by the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218.
HIGHWAY: See definition of street or highway.
INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway of two
(2) streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets joining at any
other angle, may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of controlled access highway.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material.
Freight Curb Loading Zone: A loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles
during the loading or unloading of freight.
Passenger Curb Loading Zone: A loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles
during the loading or unloading of passengers.
MOPED: Any motor driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed two (2)
brake horsepower and which is not capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed
in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground. If an internal
combustion engine is used, the displacement shall not exceed fifty (50) cubic
centimeters, and the moped shall have a power drive system that functions
directly or automatically without clutching or shifting by the operator after
the drive system is engaged.
MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Any motor vehicle having:
   A.   A power source that:
      1. If the power source is a combustion engine, has a piston or rotor
displacement of greater than thirty five (35) cubic centimeters but less than
one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers
in the power source;
      2. If the power source is electric, has a power output of greater than
one thousand (1,000) watts; and
   B.   A seat or saddle for the use of each rider; and
   C.   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE: Any motor vehicle having:
   A.   A seat or saddle for the use of each rider;
   B.   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor; and
   C.   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of one hundred
fifty (150) cubic centimeters or greater.
MOTORIZED SCOOTER:
   A.   Any vehicle having:
      1. Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;
      2. Handlebars and a foot support or seat for the use of the operator;
      3. A power source that is capable of propelling the vehicle at a maximum
design speed of not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour on level ground;
and
         a. If the power source is a combustion engine, has a piston or rotor
displacement of thirty five (35) cubic centimeters or less regardless of the
number of chambers in the power source.
         b. If the power source is electric, has a power output of not more
than one thousand (1,000) watts.
   B.   For purposes of this section, an electric personal assistive mobility
device, as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-114A, a bicycle, an
electric assisted bicycle, or a motorized bicycle, as defined in this section,
shall not be considered a motorized scooter.
   C.   A motorized scooter shall not be required to be registered under the
laws of this State. The operator of a motorized scooter shall not be required
to possess a driver license or to comply with the vehicle insurance or
financial responsibility laws of this State.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean Central
Standard Time, or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the Town.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, barricades, signals, markings and
devices, not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers, provided such loading and unloading is in
an authorized place.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the Municipal Police Department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
PUBLIC PARKING LOT: A parking lot or right-of-way dedicated to public use or
owned by the State or a political subdivision thereof.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon stationary
rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, diesel, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: Territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when property on such highway for a distance of
three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and building in use for business.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school or school ground where same is adjacent and for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') in each direction.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or at lateral lines
of the roadway, and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STOP: When required, means the complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or a
traffic control sign or signal. When prohibited, the term means any halting,
even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or a traffic control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or a
traffic control sign or signal.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular
traffic is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singularly or together, while using any highway or street for purpose of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS: Any device legally authorized and used for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) of a mile or more.
VEHICLE: A. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   The term shall not include:
      1. Implements of husbandry, as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
125.
      2. Electric personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 1-114A; or
      3. Motorized wheelchairs, as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
136.3. (2014 Code § 15-103; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pushcarts, Riding Animals, Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person riding
an animal or driving any animal driven vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this title, except those provisions of this title which,
by their very nature, can have no application.
   B.   Public Officers And Employees: The military forces of the United States
and organizations of the National Guard, performing any military duty, shall
not be restricted by the Town traffic regulations, and shall have the right-of-
way on any street or highway through which they may pass against all, except
carriers of the United States mail, fire engines, ambulances and police
vehicles in the necessary discharge of their respective duties. Said mounted
military moving in convoy shall have lights burning, with lead and trail
vehicles prominently marked, and shall travel, while inside the corporate
limits of the Town, in compliance with such speeds as are legally posted within
said corporate limits and shall maintain a closed interval of not more than
seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Public Works Vehicles: Unless specifically made applicable, the
provisions of this title, except those contained in sections
7-3-17 and
7-3-18 of this title, shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen, but
the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
   D.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection D, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as speeding does not
endanger life or property;
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; and
         e.   Disregard regulations governing turning in specified directions.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver is properly and lawfully
making use of an audible signal or of flashing red or blue lights or a
combination of flashing red and blue lights meeting the requirements of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218; except, that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue
light visible from in front of the vehicle. This subsection D3 shall not be
construed as requiring a peace officer operating a police vehicle properly and
lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use audible signals.
      4.   The exemptions in subsections D2c and D2e of this section shall be
granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized emergency vehicle
for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual signals required
by this subsection D as long as the action does not endanger life or property
if the officer is following a suspected violator of the law with probable cause
to believe that:
         a.   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            (1)   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony; or
            (2)   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            (3)   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect; or
         b.   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to the
audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
The exceptions granted in this subsection shall not apply to an officer who is
in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to elude the officer
in violation of section
6-5E-6 of this Code.
      5.   The provisions of this subsection D shall not relieve the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2018 Code)
7-1-6: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
The Mayor, subject to any direction which the Board of Trustees may give by
motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the Town and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days. (2014 Code § 15-205)
7-1-7: DRIVER AND VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 6-101, 6-
105 or 6-114 to any person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be of
special design, easily recognizable as the license of such a person and shall
include the language "UNDER 21" on the face of the license.
   B.   When a person who has been issued a license designated to be the
license of a person under twenty one (21) years of age attains the age of
twenty one (21) years, said person may obtain a replacement license without
said designation upon payment of the fee required for a duplicate license and
by furnishing proof satisfactory to the Department of Public Safety or the
motor license agent that said person has attained the age of twenty one (21)
years.
   C.   1. A nonresident who is sixteen (16) years of age or older may operate
a motor vehicle in the Town as authorized by the class, restrictions, and
endorsements specified on the license, if the nonresident is:
         a.   Properly licensed in the home state or country to operate a
commercial or noncommercial motor vehicle and who has immediate possession of a
valid driver license issued by the home state or country; or
         b.   A member of the Armed Forces of the United States or the spouse
or dependent of such member who has been issued and is in possession of a valid
driver license issued by an overseas component of the Armed Forces of the
United States.
      2.   A resident who is at least fifteen (15) years of age may operate a
vehicle in the Town without a driver license, if the resident is:
         a.   Operating a vehicle pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 6-
105, subsection B; or
         b.   Taking the driving skills examination as required by 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 6-110, when accompanied by a driver license examiner of the
Department of Public Safety or by a designated examiner approved and certified
by the department.
      3.   Any person, while in the performance of official duties, may operate
any class of motor vehicle if the person possesses any class of valid Oklahoma
driver license or a valid driver license issued by another state, if the person
is:
         a.   A member of the Armed Forces of the United States who is on
active duty;
         b.   A member of the military reserves, not including United States
reserve technician;
         c.   A member of the National Guard who is on active duty, including
National Guard military technicians;
         d.   A member of the National Guard who is on part time National Guard
training, including National Guard military technicians; or
         e.   A member of the United States Coast Guard who is on active duty.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the acts specified
in subsection D1 of this section in relation to an Oklahoma driver license or
identification card authorized to be issued by the Department of Public Safety
pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 6-101 through 6-309
or any driver license or other evidence of driving privilege or identification
card authorized to be issued by the state of origin.
      1.   It is a misdemeanor for a licensee:
         a.   To display or cause or permit to be displayed one's own license
after such license has been suspended, revoked or canceled or to possess one's
own license after having received notice of its suspension, revocation, or
cancellation;
         b.   To lend one's own license or identification card to any other
person or knowingly permit the use thereof by another;
         c.   To display or cause or permit to be displayed or to possess a
license or identification card issued to oneself which bears altered
information concerning the date of birth, expiration date, sex, height, eye
color, weight or license or card number;
         d.   To fail or refuse to surrender to the department upon its lawful
demand any license or identification card which has been suspended, revoked or
canceled;
         e.   To permit any unlawful use of a license or identification card
issued to oneself;
         f.   To do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by
this title;
         g.   To display or represent as one's own, any license or
identification card not issued to such person; or
         h.   To add to, delete from, alter, or deface the required information
on a driver license or identification card.
      2.   The violation of any of the provisions of subsection D1 of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   E.   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by
him or under his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not
authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the provisions of this title.
(2018 Code)
7-1-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    COMMERCIAL AUTO COVERAGE: Coverage provided to an insured, regardless of
the number of vehicles or entity covered, under a commercial auto, garage or
trucker's coverage form or rated from either a commercial manual or rating rule
as filed and approved by the Insurance Department. Vehicle type and ownership
are not necessarily the primary factors in either underwriting the coverage or
rating the coverage.
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance, which
provides the minimum vehicle liability limits, in conjunction with the
operation of a motor vehicle in this State as found in this section.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon the named
person by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by the named
person of any motor vehicle not owned by the named person, subject to the same
limits of liability required in an owner's policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: A policy of motor vehicle liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate, by explicit description or by appropriate
reference, all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be
granted.
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided by subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of the vehicle.
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized insurer providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 or in the case of a
commercial automobile insurance policy, may be issued by an unauthorized
insurer as allowed pursuant to 36 Oklahoma Statutes section 1106.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy meeting the minimum vehicle liability limits;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-330 having the equivalency of the minimum vehicle liability limits;
      3.   Self-insurance pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes 7-
503, having the equivalency of the minimum vehicle liability limits; or
      4.   For vehicles registered pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1127, a policy meeting or exceeding the minimum vehicle
liability limits; provided, the policy may be issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state of residence or domicile of the member
of the Armed Forces and the motor license agent or other registering agency
shall accept the security verification form issued by such insurance company.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the Insurance Commissioner,
verifying the existence of security required by the Compulsory Insurance Law.
(2018 Code)
   B.   Proof Of Insurance Required:
      1.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this State shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the Town's boundaries, carry
either an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued from a
carrier, provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
      2.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State and operating
the vehicle within the Town's boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been issued by the State Department of Public Safety,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form, or an equivalent form from the
department, during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the Federal or State government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety and which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued by
the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   D.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form, or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department, upon the request of any peace officer of the department shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Any person producing proof in court that a current verification
form, or equivalent form which has been issued by the department reflecting
this liability coverage, was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall
be entitled to dismissal of such charge. Court costs may be assessed by the
Town.
      3.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the Court Clerk shall forward an
abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within ten (10) days
reflecting the action taken by the court. (2014 Code § 15-229)
7-1-9: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Drivers Involved In Accidents:
      1.   Death Of Persons:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
the death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the
accident, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then forthwith return to
and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he has
fulfilled the requirements of subsection B of this section. Every such stop
shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
         b.   Any person wilfully, maliciously, or feloniously failing to stop
to avoid detection or prosecution, or to comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall, upon conviction, be punishable accordingly.
         c.   The Commissioner of Public Safety shall revoke the license or
permit to drive and any nonresident operating privilege of the person so
convicted.
      2.   Accidents Involving Nonfatal Injury:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in a
nonfatal injury to any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene
of such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall then forthwith
return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he
has fulfilled the requirements of subsection B of this section. Every such stop
shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
         b.   Any person wilfully, maliciously, or feloniously failing to stop
to avoid detection or prosecution or to comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall, upon conviction, be punishable accordingly.
         c.   The Commissioner of Public Safety shall revoke the license or
permit to drive and any nonresident operating privilege of the person so
convicted.
      3.   Damage To Other Vehicle:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only
in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto
as possible, and shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at
the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection
B of this section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic
more than is necessary.
         b.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the
requirements of this subsection A3 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition to the criminal penalties imposed by this
subsection, any person violating the provisions of this subsection A3 shall be
subject to liability for damages in an amount equal to three (3) times the
value of the damage caused by the accident. Said damages shall be recoverable
in a civil action. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent a Judge from
ordering restitution for any damage caused by a driver involved in an accident
provided in this subsection A3. (2014 Code § 15-219; amd. 2018 Code)
      4.   Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which collides with
any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there
locate and notify the operator or owner of the unattended vehicle, of the
correct name and address of the driver and the owner of the vehicle striking
the unattended vehicle, and provide said operator or owner with information
from his "security verification form", as defined by subsection
7-1-8A of this chapter, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in or on the
vehicle struck a written notice giving the correct name and address of the
driver and the owner of the vehicle doing the striking, and provide information
from his/her "security verification form", as defined by subsection
7-1-8A of this chapter, and shall provide the same information to an officer
having jurisdiction.
      5.   Fixtures: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in damage to fixtures legally upon or adjacent to a street shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of the fact and of his name and address and the registration number of
the vehicle he/she is driving and shall exhibit his/her driver license and
shall, upon request, exhibit a driver license and "security verification form",
as defined in subsection
7-1-8A of this chapter, and shall make report of such accident when and as
required in subsection C of this section. If the driver license is not in his
possession at that time, the driver shall make report of such accident and as
required by law. Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements
under such circumstances shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent a Judge from
ordering restitution for any damage caused by a driver involved in an accident
provided in this subsection. (2014 Code § 15-220; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Information And Aid:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident shall give his
correct name and address and the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving, and shall, upon request, exhibit his driver license and "security
verification form" as defined in subsection
7-1-8A of this chapter to the person struck, or the driver or occupant of or
person attending any vehicle collided with and shall render to any person
injured in the accident reasonable assistance including the carrying, or the
making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
If the driver does not have a driver license in his/her possession, he/she
shall exhibit other valid evidence of identification to the occupants of the
vehicle or to the person collided with.
      2.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this subsection B shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 15-219; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Reporting Accidents: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or
in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in
excess of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report
such accident to a police officer or to the Police Department unless settlement
of the collision has been made within six (6) months after the date of the
accident. If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the Office
of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident, which
report is to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with State law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this subsection. (2014 Code § 15-221)
   D.   Drugs, Alcohol Testing: Any driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident who could be cited for any traffic offense where said accident
resulted in the immediate death or great bodily injury, as defined in 21
Oklahoma Statutes section 646, subsection B, of any person shall submit to drug
and alcohol testing as soon as practicable after such accident occurs. The
traffic offense violation shall constitute probable cause for purposes of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 752, and the procedures found in said statute shall
be followed to determine the presence of alcohol or controlled dangerous
substances within the driver's blood system. (2018 Code)
7-1-10: IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET CLOSURES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets: Town personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving the streets of the Town, and Town personnel and utility
companies, when installing, improving, or repairing lines or other utility
facilities in the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to
control by the Mayor, to close any street or section thereof to traffic during
such repair, maintenance, or construction. In exercising this authority, the
appropriate personnel, contractor or utility company shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Obedience To Barricades And Traffic Control Devices During Street
Closures: When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive through, under, over, or
around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons
entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or property.
Persons having their places of residence or places of business within the
closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own
risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required During Construction: Whenever
construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility line or facility
is being performed under traffic, the Town personnel, contractor, or utility
company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control devices
to warn and guide the public. Every person using the street shall obey all
signs, signals, markings, flagpersons, or other traffic control devices which
are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or
maintenance area. (2014 Code § 15-210)
7-1-11: TRANSPORTING LOADED FIREARM:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by the provisions of the Oklahoma Self-
Defense Act or another provision of law, it shall be unlawful to transport a
loaded pistol, rifle or shotgun in a landborne motor vehicle over a public
highway or roadway. However, a rifle or shotgun may be transported clip or
magazine loaded and not chamber loaded when transported in an exterior locked
compartment of the vehicle or trunk of the vehicle or in the interior
compartment of the vehicle notwithstanding the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1289.7 when the person is in possession of a valid handgun
license pursuant to the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act.
   B.   Any person adjudged guilty of violating any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment in the
County Jail for not less than ten (10) days nor more than six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   C.   Any person who is the operator of a vehicle or is a passenger in any
vehicle wherein another person who is licensed pursuant to the Oklahoma Self-
Defense Act to carry a handgun, concealed or unconcealed, and is carrying a
handgun or has a handgun or rifle or shotgun in such vehicle shall not be
deemed in violation of the provisions of this section, provided the licensee is
in or near the vehicle. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
7-2-2: Specifications
7-2-3: Effect Of Traffic Signs For Enforcement
7-2-4: Obedience To Devices
7-2-5: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
7-2-6: Interference With, Damage To Devices
7-2-7: Designation Of Crosswalks, Safety Zones And Traffic Lanes
7-2-8: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-2-9: Flashing Signals
7-2-10: Pedestrian Control Signals
7-2-11: Testing Devices
7-2-12: Exemptions
7-2-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Town personnel, subject to any directions given by the Board of Trustees by
motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs,
signals, and devices when required under the traffic ordinances of the Town to
make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed and
maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals, and devices as may
be deemed necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the
Town or under State law or to guide or warn traffic. (2014 Code § 15-601)
7-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the "Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices", approved by the State Department of Public
Safety. All signs, signals, and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and relative
location throughout the Town. All traffic control devices erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of State law or this chapter shall be official
traffic control devices. (2014 Code § 15-602)
7-2-3: EFFECT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT:
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (2014 Code § 15-604)
7-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (2014 Code § 15-603)
7-2-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitation Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place, maintain, or
display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking,
or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal. (2014 Code § 15-609)
   B.   Advertising On Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic
sign, signal or device bearing thereon any commercial advertising; provided,
however, that the Town Board of Trustees may permit, under such conditions as
the said Board may deem proper, commercial or other advertising upon any
traffic sign located on streets or highways within the Town and not designated
as either State or Federal highways or extensions thereof. (2014 Code § 15-609;
amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
which are of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Summary Removal: Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may
be removed without notice. (2014 Code § 15-609)
7-2-6: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his possession any traffic control device, including any 911 emergency
telephone service route markers, or any railroad sign or signal or an
inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof. (2014 Code § 15-
610; amd. 2018 Code)
7-2-7: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES AND TRAFFIC LANES:
Authorized Town personnel, subject to any directions given by the Board of
Trustees, may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where the opinion is that
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as deemed necessary; and (2014 Code § 15-613)
   B.   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as
deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (2014 Code § 15-613; amd.
2018 Code)
   C.   Have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a
regular alignment of traffic is necessary. Where such traffic lanes have been
marked, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to
keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully
passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or
otherwise authorized by ordinance. (2014 Code § 15-614)
7-2-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   A.   Green Signals "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a green alone signal, except when
prohibited, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an
official sign at such place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any
pedestrian lawfully within the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time
the signal displays green shall have the right-of-way over such vehicular
traffic; and
      2.   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
      3.   Pedestrian traffic facing a green signal except when the sole green
signal is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked crosswalk unless a "walk" signal indicator is operating.
   B.   Steady Yellow Or Amber Alone, "Caution":
      1.   The showing of a yellow or amber alone signal color following green
shall constitute a warning that the "red" or "stop" signal will be exhibited
immediately thereafter; and
      2.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the "caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event, vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "red" signal flashes.
      3.   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is
shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
   C.   Steady Red Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown
except as provided in subsections C2 and C3 of this section.
      2.   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular traffic
facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to turn
right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by subsection C1 of this section. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      3.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red signal shall not enter the roadway until the
green or "go" is shown alone unless authorized by a pedestrian "walk" signal.
   D.   Signals At Other Than Intersections: In the event an official traffic
control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which, by their nature, can have no application. (2014 Code § 15-
605; amd. 2018 Code)
7-2-9: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is illuminated, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red light is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the requirements of law applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow light is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection, or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching grade crossings shall be governed as set forth
in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-701. (2014 Code § 15-607; amd. 2018 Code)
7-2-10: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
   A.   Generally: Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words
"walk", "wait" or "don't walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
      1.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles; and
      2.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "wait" signal is showing. (2014 Code § 15-606)
   B.   Pedestrian Activated School Crossing Signals: Whenever a pedestrian
activated school crossing signal is provided, it requires obedience by
vehicular traffic and pedestrians as provided in subsection A of this section
and section
7-2-8 of this chapter. (2014 Code § 15-608; amd. 2018 Code)
      1.   Flashing Yellow:
         a.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or pass such signal only with caution; and
         b.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
      2.   Steady Yellow Alone:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow alone signal is
thereby warned that the red or stop signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter, and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the
intersection or pass the signal when the red or stop signal is exhibited; and
         b.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which
the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
      3.   Steady Red:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection and shall remain
standing until flashing yellow is shown alone; and
         b.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal
and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      4.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red and steady yellow
combined signal is thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal will be
exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such vehicular traffic shall remain
standing until the flashing yellow is shown alone; and (2014 Code § 15-608)
         b.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety zone and shall be given the right-of-
way by the drivers of all vehicles. (2014 Code § 15-608; amd. 2018 Code)
7-2-11: TESTING DEVICES:
The Mayor may have traffic control devices tested under actual conditions of
traffic. (2014 Code § 15-205)
7-2-12: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any of the following persons when acting within
the scope and duty of their employment:
   A.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
   B.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (2014 Code § 15-
610)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-3-2: Right-Of-Way
7-3-3: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-3-4: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
7-3-5: Speed Regulations
7-3-6: Drive On Right; Exceptions
7-3-7: Driving On Roadways; Changing Lanes
7-3-8: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
7-3-9: Turning Movements
7-3-10: Restrictions On Driving
7-3-11: Truck Traffic
7-3-12: Processions
7-3-13: Railroad Crossings
7-3-14: Play Streets
7-3-15: Roller Skates, Coasters And Toy Vehicles
7-3-16: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-3-17: Reckless, Careless, Negligent Vehicle Operation
7-3-18: Driving Under The Influence
7-3-1: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this State, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal or red flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      2.   This subsection A shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals nor shall this subsection A operate to relieve
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (2014 Code § 15-212;
amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Following Emergency Vehicles Prohibited: The driver of any vehicle,
other than the one on official business, shall not follow any police vehicle,
ambulance, emergency management vehicle, fire apparatus, or other emergency
vehicle traveling in response to an emergency call or request closer than five
hundred feet (500'), or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
the emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call. (2014 Code §
15-213; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected
hose of a Fire Department used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command. (2014 Code § 15-214)
7-3-2: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   A.   Uncontrolled Intersections: When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an
uncontrolled intersection from different highways at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right as otherwise stated in this chapter; however, the driver
of a vehicle on a street which is not a State or Federal highway approaching an
intersection with a State or Federal highway shall stop and yield the right-of-
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or which is so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard. The right-of-way rule declared in
this subsection is modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this
chapter. (2014 Code § 15-538)
   B.   Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is so close thereto when initiating such turn as to constitute
an immediate hazard. (2018 Code)
   C.   Through Highway: Except when directed by a police officer or a traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this
chapter at the entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway,
or which are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (2014 Code § 15-541)
   D.   Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signal: If two (2) or more
vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signals at an intersection and are
approaching as to enter the intersection at the same time, the following rules
shall apply:
      1.   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      2.   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the
right shall have the right-of-way.
      3.   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right-of-way.
      4.   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other is to take caution,
the one required to take caution shall have the right-of-way.
      5.   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right-of-way over one which has not entered the intersection.
(2014 Code § 15-542)
   E.   Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway: The driver of a vehicle
about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a private road or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
highway. (2014 Code § 15-548)
   F.   Entering Traffic From Parked Position: Any vehicle attempting to
reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield the right-of-way to
oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear. The parked vehicle
shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver has given the
appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from the curb and
into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the line of
traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists. (2014 Code §
15-549)
   G.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk
or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision
and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway. (2018 Code)
7-3-3: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets:
      1.   Designated: Town personnel, subject to such direction as the Board
of Trustees may give, may designate any street or part of a street a through
street.
      2.   Signs Posted:
         a.   Whenever the Town designates and described a through street, the
stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic control signals.
         b.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the Town if deemed desirable. (2014 Code § 15-543)
   B.   Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required: The Mayor, subject to any
direction given by the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution, is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections upon other than through
streets where particular hazards exist and to determine whether:
      1.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event, he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
      2.   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this title, in which event, he shall cause to be erected
a yield sign at every place where yield is required. (2014 Code § 15-544)
   C.   Procedures At Stop Intersections:
      1.   Except when directed by a police officer or traffic control signal,
every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop
sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked line before entering the intersection. If there is no marked
stop line, then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting
road where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on an intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   A driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right-of- way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the
driver having so yielded may then proceed, and the driver of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding. (2014 Code § 15-546)
   D.   Procedures At Yield Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
observance to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions of traffic and visibility or shall stop if necessary and shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving and to any vehicle approaching on another road so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed,
and drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to
the vehicle so proceeding. (2014 Code §§ 15-540, 15-547)
      2.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection before entering the intersection. If there is no crosswalk,
the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is no stop
line, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      3.   A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and has or
causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection D shall not release the drivers of
other vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to
constitute immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a
collision. (2014 Code § 15-547)
7-3-4: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   One-Way Roadways:
      1.   Town personnel, subject to any direction given by the Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution, may designate any road, street, alley, or
highway, or any separate roadway under its jurisdiction, for one-way traffic
and shall cause appropriate signs to be erected giving notice thereof.
      2.   Whenever the Town designates any street or alley or part thereof as
a one-way street or alley, Town personnel shall have placed and maintained
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
      3.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and
parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic
shall move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction
of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in
the opposite direction is prohibited.
      4.   Upon roadways designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   B.   Rotary Traffic Islands: A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island shall be driven only to the right of such island. (2014 Code § 15-507)
7-3-5: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper:
      1.   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration, among other things, the condition of the vehicle; the traffic,
roadway surface or width; the amount of light or darkness; the presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadways; and the obstruction of views.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will
permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead. (2014
Code § 15-403)
   B.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Generally: No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty
five (25) miles per hour in the Town, except:
         a.   On designated and numbered State and Federal highways, the
maximum is as posted;
         b.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this
title;
         c.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted;
or
         d.   When a different speed limit is established in this section.
      2.   Authority To Alter Speed Limits: Town personnel, subject to the
direction as the Mayor and Board of Trustees may give by motion or resolution,
may reduce or increase the speed limits provided in this section, and when they
do so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets
indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (2014 Code § 15-401)
   C.   School Zones: No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than posted
between the hours posted on any street adjacent to any school in a designated
school zone on days when school is in session, unless a different speed limit
or time is otherwise designated and posted. (2014 Code § 15-402)
   D.   Minimum Speed: No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonable speed
in relation to the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or
to interfere with the normal movement of other traffic except when the slow
speed is unavoidable. (2014 Code § 15-404)
   E.   Compliance With Signs: Where official signs and markings give notice of
both maximum and minimum speed limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall
be driven at rates in excess of the maximum nor slower than the minimum except
as required by an authorized officer or in obedience to posted official signs.
(2014 Code § 15-405)
7-3-6: DRIVE ON RIGHT; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the laws governing such movement;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the laws applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      5.   Upon a roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway and may be
temporarily driven upon the right hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass. This subsection shall not apply when overtaking and
passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for
a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
   C.   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2 of this section. However,
this subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway. (2018 Code)
7-3-7: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS; CHANGING LANES:
   A.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other requirements consistent
herewith, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely in a single
lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made safely and has then given a signal
not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle, of his
intention to change lanes. (2014 Code § 15-501; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic lanes, vehicles
shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as nearly as
practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   C.   Upon a roadway which has been divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   D.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway. Drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (2014 Code § 15-501)
7-3-8: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right. Upon
roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic in each
direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (2014 Code § 15-506)
   B.   Overtaking On Left:
      1.   a. The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear
of the overtaken vehicle.
         b.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-504)
      2.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of
the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
      3.   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is
obstructed; or
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (2014 Code § 15-505)
   C.   When Overtaking On Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; and
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (2014 Code § 15-503)
   D.   No Passing Zones:
      1.   The State Department of Transportation, as regards State and Federal
highways, and the Mayor, as regards all other streets, are hereby authorized to
determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and passing to the
left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate signs or markings
on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. When such signs
or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant person,
every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
      2.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as
set forth in subsection D1 of this section, no driver shall at any time drive
to the left side of the roadway within the no passing zone on the left side of
any pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone throughout its
length. (2014 Code § 15-509)
   E.   Passing In School Zones:
      1.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in
motion and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the
hours posted on all days when schools are in session. (2014 Code § 15-513)
      2.   A driver may pass any other vehicle whenever a school zone is
located on a multiple lane street which is divided into three (3) or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, or where the right half of the roadway has
been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on one-way streets, vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (2014 Code § 15-513; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Passing Stopped School Bus:
      1.   Regulations:
         a.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that
is stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red
loading signals are in operation, shall stop his vehicle before it reaches the
school bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then
proceed past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due
caution for the safety of such school children and other occupants. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection F shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (2014 Code § 15-514; amd. 2018
Code)
         b.   The driver of any vehicle, when passing a school bus, shall use
due caution for the safety of school children and other occupants of the school
bus.
         c.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right-of-way when
crossing the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (2014 Code § 15-
514)
      2.   Equipment:
         a.   The provisions of subsection F1 of this section shall be
applicable only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears upon the front
and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in
letters not less than eight inches (8") in height which can be removed or
covered when the vehicle is not in use as a school bus.
         b.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately
flashing warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the
front and two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (2014
Code § 15-515)
7-3-9: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning Markers Or Indicators: The Mayor, subject to any directions
given by the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution, is authorized to place
markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to
be traveled, as so indicated, may conform or be other than as prescribed by
law. When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications. (2014 Code § 15-901)
   B.   Designation Of Restricted Turns:
      1.   The Mayor is hereby authorized to determine those street
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-
turns, and shall have proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of
the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours. Where turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this
subsection, the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be
removed when turns are permitted. (2014 Code § 15-902)
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the
directions of any such sign. (2014 Code § 15-903)
   C.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of
a right turn shall be made as close as practical to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway;
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the centerline
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection; or
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (2014 Code § 15-905)
   D.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   Safe Turns; Signals Required:
         a.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, a public or
private road, or a driveway unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the
roadway as required in subsection C of this section, or move right or left upon
a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal as
provided in subsection D1b of this section, in the event any other traffic may
be affected by such movement.
         b.   A signal of intention to turn right or left as required by law
shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet
(100') traveled by the vehicle before turning.
         c.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in subsection
D1b of this section to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when
there is opportunity to give such signal.
         d.   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting or
executing a left turn, as described in subsection D1a of this section, no other
person operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle
shall pass or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left. Such other
person shall come to a complete stop if necessary at a safe distance behind the
person preparing for, attempting or executing the turn or may proceed to the
right of the turning vehicle as provided by subsection
7-3-8C of this chapter. (2018 Code)
      2.   Method Of Signaling:
         a.   Signals By Hand, Arm Or Signal Device:
            (1)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given
either by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical
device of a type approved by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety, except
as provided in subsection D2a(2) of this section.
            (2)   A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required signal
given by, signal lamps or devices when:
               (A)   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the
steering wheel;
               (B)   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not
be visible both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
               (C)   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any
vehicle projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center of the top of
the steering post. (2014 Code § 15-907)
         b.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein
required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle
in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
            (1)   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
            (2)   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
            (3)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward with
palm to the rear. (2014 Code § 15-908)
   E.   U-Turns:
      1.   Prohibited: The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as
to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the Town at the
following locations:
         a.   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
         b.   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the
latter's direction; or
         c.   At any other location where an official "No U-Turn" has been
placed and is maintained.
      2.   Manner Of Making U-Turns: A U-turn may be made only when it can be
made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make
a U-turn except in the following manner:
         a.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the
right curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a
signal for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn
across the intersection;
         b.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the
vehicle;
         c.   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until
such turn is completed; and
         d.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-904)
7-3-10: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Stop When Traffic Obstructed: No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any
traffic control signal indication to proceed. (2014 Code § 15-551)
   B.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway. (2014 Code § 15-508)
   C.   Drawing Other Vehicles: The driver of any truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residential district and which is following another truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient
space so that an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy such space without
danger; except, that this shall not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle from overtaking and passing any like vehicle or another
vehicle.
   D.   Trucks Following Other Trucks: No vehicle which has more than six (6)
tires in contact with the road shall approach from the rear of another vehicle
which has more than six (6) tires in contact with the road closer than three
hundred feet (300') except when passing such vehicle.
   E.   Caravans Or Motorcades: Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway
outside of a business or residential district in a caravan or motorcade,
whether or not towing other vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow
sufficient space between each such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to
enable any other vehicle to enter and occupy such space without danger. The
distance between such vehicles shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200')
under all conditions. This subsection shall not apply to funeral processions.
   F.   Backing Vehicles: No vehicle shall be backed upon any street or highway
except for such distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle to enter the
proper driving lane from a parked position. Such backing shall be done only
after the driver of said vehicle has ascertained that such movement can be made
without endangering other traffic. (2018 Code)
   G.   Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Highways: No person shall drive
a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway except at entrances and
exits established by public authority. (2014 Code § 15-521)
   H.   Driving On Sidewalks: No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon
any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (2014 Code § 15-
516)
   I.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone. (2014 Code § 15-529; amd. 2018 Code)
   J.   Driving Through Service Drives: No vehicle or animal shall be driven
through any private service driveway or private service area except for the
purpose of obtaining service or merchandise. (2014 Code § 15-535)
   K.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (2014 Code § 15-530)
   L.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of
a motor vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than
necessary to load or unload passengers. (2014 Code § 15-531)
7-3-11: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   Authority To Regulate Truck Traffic: The Board of Trustees may
prescribe routes through the Town for the use of trucks in general, trucks of
particular kinds or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through Town.
   B.   Signs Posted: Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such
routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
   C.   Obedience To Signs Required: When such signs are so erected and in
place, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been
prescribed, as provided in this section, while passing through the Town, shall
keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency.
Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes, so far as practicable, when
driving within the Town and not merely through the Town. (2014 Code § 15-536)
7-3-12: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe. (2014 Code §
15-511)
   B.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This subsection shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (2014 Code § 15-510)
   C.   Funeral Processions To Be Identified: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified by headlights or as may be
determined and designated by the Police Department. (2014 Code § 15-512)
7-3-13: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Obedience To Signals Required:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection A, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until
he can do so safely. This subsection A1 shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagperson gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance, and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and in hazardous
proximity to such crossing. (2014 Code § 15-552)
         e.   The tracks at the crossing are not clear.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed or fail to obey the directions of a law
enforcement officer at the crossing. (2014 Code § 15-552; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   The operator of a Class A, B or C commercial vehicle not required to
stop at all railroad grade crossings, as prescribed in subsection B of this
section, shall slow down and check that all tracks are clear of an approaching
train. (2018 Code)
   B.   Certain Vehicles To Stop At All Crossings: The driver of any
"commercial motor vehicle", as defined in 49 CFR section 390.5, shall comply
with railroad crossing provisions as prescribed in 49 CFR section 392.10. (2018
Code)
7-3-14: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: Town personnel, subject to any directions given
by the Board of Trustees, shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. (2014 Code § 15-611)
   B.   Restriction On Use: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (2014 Code § 15-612)
7-3-15: ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS AND TOY VEHICLES:
No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon
any street which is set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of
the Town. (2014 Code § 15-207)
7-3-16: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any
moving vehicle upon a roadway. (2014 Code § 15-520)
   B.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (2014 Code § 15-533)
   C.   Unlawful Riding:
      1.   No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow a passenger to ride
outside the passenger compartment of the vehicle on the streets of the Town;
provided, this section shall not apply to persons so riding on private property
or for parades or special events nor shall this section apply to passengers
riding on the bed of a pickup truck.
      2.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of subsection C1 of
this section shall be punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) and shall
pay court costs of fifteen dollars ($15.00). (2018 Code)
7-3-17: RECKLESS, CARELESS, NEGLIGENT VEHICLE OPERATION:
   A.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner
without regard for the safety of persons or property or in violation of the
conditions outlined in section
7-3-5 of this chapter is guilty of reckless driving and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 15-522; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Careless Or Negligent Vehicle Operation: It is unlawful for any person
to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked, or stop any vehicle:
      1.   In a careless manner;
      2.   In a negligent manner;
      3.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
      4.   In such a manner or condition as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets. (2014 Code § 15-525)
   C.   Full Attention Required: The operator of every vehicle while driving
upon the streets and highways of the Town shall devote full time and attention
to such driving. No law enforcement officer shall issue a citation under this
subsection unless the law enforcement officer observes that the operator of the
vehicle is involved in an accident or observes the operator of the vehicle
driving in such a manner that poses an articulable danger to other persons on
the roadway that is not otherwise specified in statute. (2014 Code § 15-526;
amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Careful And Prudent Driving: Any person driving a vehicle on a public
road or way shall drive the same in a careful and prudent manner and at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of the public way
and any other conditions then existing. (2014 Code § 15-527)
   E.   Speed Contests; Excessive Acceleration:
      1.   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
      2.   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner, obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
      3.   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate in
an unlawful speed contest, such assembly is an unlawful assembly, and any
person who participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
      4.   No driver shall, either purposely or inadvertently, cause his
vehicle to accelerate at such an excessive or rapid rate of speed so as to spin
or squeal the tires of the vehicle or cause his ability to control the vehicle
to be impaired to any appreciable degree. (2014 Code § 15-528)
7-3-18: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
Regarding driving under the influence of alcoholic beverages or controlled
dangerous substances, or combination thereof, in the Town, the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 11-902, as amended, shall apply. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Method Of Parking
7-4-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-4-3: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-4: Right-Of-Way To Parallel Parking Space
7-4-5: Parking On Main Traveled Portion Of Roadway
7-4-6: Parking Creating Hazardous Conditions
7-4-7: Time Limit Parking
7-4-8: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-4-9: Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
7-4-10: Exemptions
7-4-11: Illegal Parking A Nuisance
7-4-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb.
      2.   Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the left hand side of a one-way
street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left
hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb.
(2014 Code § 15-723)
      3.   A person engaging in the collection and disposal of solid waste or
recycling material, or both, as a business, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma Solid Waste Management Act, shall be exempt from the provisions of
subsection A1 of this section while in the performance of such activities.
(2018 Code)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   The Mayor, subject to any directions given by the Board of Trustees
by motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked or signed.
(2014 Code § 15-706)
      2.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (2014 Code §
15-707)
   C.   Unattended Motor Vehicle: The person driving or in charge of a motor
vehicle shall not permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the
engine, and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway of a motor
vehicle and shall not permit it to stand unattended. (2018 Code)
   D.   Parking Within Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it
within a parking space as thus marked and not on or over a line delineating a
space. (2014 Code § 15-708)
7-4-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except in emergencies,
or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with
law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, or as
otherwise provided in subsection B of this section in any of the following
places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance of any fire
station and, on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire
station, within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly
signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (2014 Code §
15-711)
   B.   No person engaging in the collection and disposal of solid waste or
recycling material, or both, as a business, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma Solid Waste Management Act, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in
any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   Within an intersection;
      3.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      4.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway underpass; or
      5.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (2018 Code)
   C.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb. (2014 Code § 15-711)
7-4-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   At Intersections: The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets
intersect shall be prohibited fifteen feet (15') in advance of the crosswalk on
the near side of such intersection. (2014 Code § 15-716)
   B.   On One-Way Roadways:
      1.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
      2.   The Board of Trustees may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (2014 Code § 15-713)
   C.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property
owned or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent
except where such private property is provided as public parking and the
general use of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
      2.   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and there is a complaint by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given. (2014 Code § 15-718)
   D.   Blocking Intersection Or Crosswalk: No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
(2014 Code § 15-712)
   E.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave less than twenty feet (20') of
the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. (2014 Code
§ 15-717; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle
upon any roadway for the purpose of:
      1.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      2.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
      3.   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (2014 Code § 15-722)
   G.   Adjacent To Schools: Town personnel may have signs erected indicating
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in the opinion of said personnel, interfere
with traffic or create a hazardous situation. No person shall park a vehicle in
violation of any such signs. (2014 Code § 15-715)
   H.   Parking Generally; Double Parking:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection
7-4-2B of this chapter, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device. (2018 Code)
      2.   a. Delivery vehicles, either loading or unloading, may double park
in the right hand lane while in the process of loading or unloading and making
delivery to local business establishments; provided, that the driver of the
delivery vehicle shall keep a lookout for cars and vehicles needing or
attempting to move away from the curb and shall move his delivery vehicle as
soon as possible to permit the parked vehicles to be moved; and further
provided, that the double parking shall be permitted only so long as both
traffic lanes are not blocked. (2014 Code § 15-720)
         b.   Every vehicle in compliance with the provisions of this
subsection H2 shall, in addition to any other required equipment and
distinctive markings, be equipped with flashing hazard lights. The lights shall
be visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight and shall be flashing
during double parking. (2018 Code)
   I.   Negligent Parking: No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or
leave unattended any vehicle as follows:
      1.   In a careless or negligent manner;
      2.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property; or
      3.   In such a manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic
or use of the streets. (2014 Code § 15-724)
   J.   Parking Disabled Vehicles: No person shall park a disabled vehicle on
any street for a period longer than forty eight (48) hours. The parking of a
disabled vehicle for more than forty eight (48) hours shall constitute prima
facie evidence of abandonment of the vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-704)
7-4-4: RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   B.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space. (2014
Code § 15-725)
7-4-5: PARKING ON MAIN TRAVELED PORTION OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Upon any street, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part
of the street when it is practical to stop, park, or leave the vehicle off such
parts of the street; except, that delivery vehicles, either loading or
unloading, may park in the center of Main Street, headed east, while in the
process of loading or unloading and making a delivery or a pick up at any local
business establishment.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a street in such a
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position. (2014 Code § 15-719)
7-4-6: PARKING CREATING HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
Town personnel are hereby authorized to determine and regulate by proper signs
the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles when such stopping, standing or
parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual
delay to traffic. When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested
places, as authorized herein, no person shall violate such sign. (2014 Code §
15-710)
7-4-7: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
Town personnel, subject to any directions given by the Board of Trustees by
motion or resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking in
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless
a sign is erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation. (2014 Code
§ 15-703)
7-4-8: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or on public property that is designated and posted as a reserved
area for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in
said section 15-112 or regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 15-726)
   B.   It shall also be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor
vehicle, whether with or without a physically disabled placard or plate, in any
disabled parking space, access aisle, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair loading/
unloading area or any portion thereof.
   C.   In addition, vehicles lawfully parked in violation of this section
shall be subject to immediate tow by a licensed tow truck operator at the
request of the landowner or a duly appointed agent of the landowner, at the
request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to or move their vehicle,
at the request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to the area blocked
by the unlawfully parked vehicle, or at the request of appropriate law
enforcement personnel. The owner of any vehicle unlawfully parked in violation
of this section shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary costs associated
with towing and storage of the vehicle. (2018 Code)
7-4-9: TRUCKS TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
It is unlawful to park, store or otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle
which is used for the purpose of transporting or delivering flammable and
combustible liquids as defined by the Town Fire Prevention Code and trucks or
other vehicles which are used for the transportation and delivery of liquefied
petroleum gases in any area within the Town. However, the trucks and vehicles
restricted in this section may be temporarily parked at locations otherwise
zoned for the purpose of loading and unloading flammable and combustible
liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a period not to exceed one and one-
half (11/2) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period. (2014 Code § 15-721)
7-4-10: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device. (2014
Code § 15-702)
7-4-11: ILLEGAL PARKING A NUISANCE:
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter governing,
limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for such violation
shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-701)
CHAPTER 5
LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Authority To Designate Loading Zones
7-5-3: Use Of Loading Zones For Designated Purposes Only
7-5-4: Parking In Passenger Loading Zones
7-5-5: Parking In Commercial Loading Zones
7-5-6: Permit To Back To Curb
7-5-7: Public Carrier Stops
7-5-8: Signs
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE:
   A.   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner or
his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used during normal
business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight and
which bears a regular State commercial license tag.
   B.   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during normal
business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight, and
which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the Town at the rear of
the vehicle attached to the State license plate, together with an identically
numbered decal, issued to the vehicle.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: A curb loading zone authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of freight.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: A loading zone used exclusively for the loading and
unloading of passengers except bus stops, taxicab stands, and stands for other
passenger common carrier vehicles. (2014 Code § 15-801; amd. 2018 Code)
7-5-2: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES:
The Mayor, subject to any directions given by the Board of Trustees by motion
or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading
zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the
zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. (2014 Code § 15-802)
7-5-3: USE OF LOADING ZONES FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSES ONLY:
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(2014 Code § 15-803)
7-5-4: PARKING IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone
for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes. (2014 Code § 15-804)
7-5-5: PARKING IN COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. (2014
Code § 15-805; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone. (2014
Code § 15-805)
7-5-6: PERMIT TO BACK TO CURB:
   A.   The Mayor is authorized to issue special permits to permit the backing
of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or
materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
   B.   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
   C.   The Mayor may revoke such permit at any time.
   D.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of such permit. (2014 Code § 15-709)
7-5-7: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The Mayor must establish loading zones for
common carriers including, but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab
stands and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such
public streets in such places and in such number as he shall determine to be of
the greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such loading zone
shall be designated by appropriate signs. (2014 Code § 15-806)
   B.   Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter the zone. (2014 Code § 15-807)
   C.   Parking Buses:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided herein,
except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   D.   Parking Taxicabs: The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park
such vehicle upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated as provided herein. This subsection shall not prevent the operator
of a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (2014 Code § 15-808)
7-5-8: SIGNS:
   A.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the Town an amount of money
estimated by the Board of Trustees to be adequate to reimburse the Town for all
costs of establishing and signing the same. (2014 Code § 15-802)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-6-2: Driver Duties
7-6-3: Right-Of-Way
7-6-4: Pedestrians Crossing Roadways
7-6-5: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
7-6-6: Soliciting Prohibited
7-6-1: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided in
this title, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2014 Code § 15-
1001)
   B.   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (2014 Code § 15-1010)
7-6-2: DRIVER DUTIES:
   A.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person in the roadway. (2014 Code § 15-1008)
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-1002)
7-6-3: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of- way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
      1.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
      2.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge of
the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   The provisions of this section are not applicable under conditions
where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter. (2014 Code §
15-1002)
7-6-4: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Crossings: Between adjacent intersections at which traffic
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk. Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a
median in the center thereof, except in a crosswalk. (2014 Code § 15-1009)
   B.   Leaving Curb Suddenly: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety or walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. (2014 Code § 15-1002)
   C.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalk: Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a
crosswalk, shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of the
crosswalk. (2014 Code § 15-1003)
   D.   Crossing At Right Angles: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any
place other than by a route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest
route to the opposite curb, except in a crosswalk. (2014 Code § 15-1004)
   E.   Pedestrians To Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection E are not applicable where
pedestrian crossings are prohibited. (2014 Code § 15-1005)
7-6-5: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left
side of the roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from
the opposite direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (2014 Code §
15-1006)
7-6-6: SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street or roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop
and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
contributions or the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked on or
about to be parked on a street;
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in a vehicle;
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle a circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose. (2014 Code § 15-1007)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Compliance With State Law; Violations
7-7-2: Condition Of Vehicle Generally
7-7-3: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Control; Overloading School Bus
7-7-4: Vehicle Width, Height, Length And Load
7-7-5: Certain Vehicles Prohibited; Loads
7-7-6: Noise Control
7-7-7: Seat Belts
7-7-8: Child Restraints
7-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; VIOLATIONS:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the Town shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to do any of the following on the streets of
the Town:
   A.   Operate a vehicle which is not equipped as required by law.
   B.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   C.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law. (2014 Code §
15-303; amd. 2018 Code)
7-7-2: CONDITION OF VEHICLE GENERALLY:
   A.   No person shall drive or move on any road, street, or highway of the
Town any motor vehicle, including motorcycles, trailers, semitrailers, or pole
trailers, which are licensed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission and operated on the
streets or highways of the Town, or any combination thereof, unless the vehicle
is in good working order and adjustment and in such safe mechanical condition
as not to endanger the driver or other occupants. (2014 Code § 15-306; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any house trailer
which requires a permit to be moved upon the highways of this State.
   C.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 15-306)
7-7-3: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR CONTROL; OVERLOADING SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2014 Code § 15-532)
   C.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, other
nontransparent material, or debris, including, but not limited to, snow, ice,
or frost, upon the front windshield or the side wings, or side or rear windows,
or suspend any sign, poster, object, or other material from the interior of the
vehicle, which materially obstructs, obscures, or impairs the driver's clear
view of the roadway ahead or to either side or of any intersecting roadway.
   D.   No school bus shall be operated on the streets or highways in the Town
when loaded with passengers in excess of the number for which such bus is
designed to carry. The number of passengers determined by the local school
board which the bus is designed to carry shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the bus. (2018 Code)
7-7-4: VEHICLE WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, or load of which exceeds that authorized by State law, except
in accordance with a permit issued by State authority or by the Chief of
Police. (2014 Code § 15-305)
7-7-5: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface
of a street shall be driven or moved on any street. (2014 Code § 15-301)
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or
so loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (2014 Code §
15-302)
   C.   1. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom; except,
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway. (2014 Code § 15-537)
      2.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders, or loose
material susceptible to blowing or otherwise escaping shall have the road
covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the load from
the vehicle.
      3.   This subsection C shall not apply to trucks loaded with livestock,
poultry, hay or agricultural products; provided, that any such truck shall be
so constructed or loaded to prevent such livestock or poultry or hay from
escaping therefrom. (2014 Code § 15-537; amd. 2018 Code)
7-7-6: NOISE CONTROL:
   A.   Muffler; Cutout; Exhaust:
      1.   Every vehicle shall be equipped, maintained, and operated so as to
prevent excessive or unusual noise. Every motor vehicle shall at all times be
equipped with a muffler or other effective noise suppressing system in good
working order and in constant operation, and no person shall use a muffler
cutout, bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase the noise or sound
emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the
vehicle.
      2.   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke, or
both.
   B.   Vehicle Sound Amplification Systems:
      1.   Definitions: When used in this subsection B, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
    AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system, regardless of
whether the vehicle is operating or occupied, which can be heard at a distance
of fifty feet (50') or more. Measurement standards shall be auditory senses,
based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and
bass reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be in any public or
private location.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of sounds
including, without limitation, sounds created by human voice or musical
instrumentation.
      2.   Prohibition: No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system from the vehicle so that the sound
is audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the vehicle.
      3.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this subsection B that the operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from
operating the sound amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
         a.   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of hazardous road conditions.
         b.   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle.
         c.   The vehicle was owned and operated by the Town, the Public Works
Authority of the Town, or public or private utility company.
         d.   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, or other activities which have been approved
by the Town Board of Trustees.
      4.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this subsection B,
upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200.00), excluding costs and assessments. (2018 Code)
7-7-7: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Front Seat Passengers: Every operator and front seat passenger of a
Class A, Class B or Class C commercial motor vehicle or a passenger vehicle
operated in the Town shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat
belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to 49 CFR section 571.208.
   B.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "passenger vehicle" shall
mean a Class D motor vehicle, but shall not include trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles or motorized bicycles, or a vehicle used
primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134. (2018 Code)
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possess a
written verification from a physician licensed in this State that he is unable
to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety belt system.
      2.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator of a
motor vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service. (2014 Code §
15-230)
   D.   Enforcement Restricted: No law enforcement officer shall make routine
stops of motorists for the purpose of enforcing subsection A of this section.
(2014 Code § 15-230; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Fine And Court Costs: Fine and court costs for violating the provisions
of this section shall not exceed twenty dollars ($20.00). (2018 Code)
7-7-8: CHILD RESTRAINTS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "child passenger
restraint system" means an infant or child passenger restraint system that
meets the Federal standards for crash tested restraint system as set by the
United States Department of Transportation. (2014 Code § 15-230)
   B.   Restraint Required:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under six (6) years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of the Town,
shall provide for the protection of the child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system or a properly secured seat belt in the rear seat of
the motor vehicle. For purposes of this section and 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 11-1113, "child passenger restraint system" means an infant or child
passenger restraint system which meets the Federal standards as set by 49 CFR
section 571.
      2.   Children at least six (6) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by the use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt. (2014 Code § 15-230; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   A nonresident driver transporting a child in this State;
      2.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to State
or Federal laws;
      3.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      4.   A driver of a vehicle if all the seat belts in the vehicle are in
use; and
      5.   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices. (2014 Code § 15-230)
      6.   The transportation of a child who weights more than forty (40)
pounds and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing
only a lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
subsection C6, "back seat" shall include all seats located behind the front
seat of a vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided
further, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the
weight requirements of this subsection C6 if, at the request of any law
enforcement officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the
officer with a written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that
the child weighs more than forty (40) pounds. (2018 Code)
   D.   Enforcement:
      1.   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
section and to give an oral warning to the driver. The warning shall advise the
driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to install
or use child passenger restraint systems or seat belts in the motor vehicle.
(2014 Code § 15-230)
      2.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall be admissible as
evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the plaintiff in
such action or proceeding is a child under sixteen (16) years of age.
      3.   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
      4.   A person who is certified as a child passenger safety technician and
who, in good faith, provides inspection, adjustment, or educational services
regarding child passenger restraint systems shall not be liable for civil
damages resulting from any act or omission in providing such services, other
than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence or wilful or wanton
misconduct. (2018 Code)
   E.   Penalties: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall pay court costs
thereof, or the maximum amount allowed by State law, whichever is greater, and
court costs. This fine shall be suspended and costs limited to a maximum of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) in the case of the first offense upon proof of
purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system. (2014
Code § 15-230; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES, ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES, MOTORCYCLES,
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS AND MOPEDS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Application Of Provisions
7-8-2: State Traffic Laws Apply
7-8-3: Riding On Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters, Motor Driven Cycles And
Mopeds
7-8-4: Time Of Operation Restricted
7-8-5: Speed Restrictions
7-8-6: Operation By Persons Under Sixteen
7-8-7: Equipment Required
7-8-8: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-8-9: Riding On Bicycles
7-8-10: Operation Of Bicycles
7-8-11: Parking Bicycles
7-8-12: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-8-13: Violation; Penalty
7-8-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to "bicycles", "electric
assisted bicycles", "motor driven cycles", "motorcycles", "motorized scooters"
and "mopeds" as said terms are defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as the same may
be amended or superseded.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any
path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (2018 Code)
7-8-2: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
   A.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of any
vehicle regulated by this title except as to such regulations which, by their
nature, can have no application to bicycles.
   B.   No person operating any vehicle covered by this chapter shall pass
other vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction ("lane
splitting"). (2018 Code)
7-8-3: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES AND
MOPEDS:
Any person operating a motorcycle, motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or
moped shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and
such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride
on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in which
event, a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator. (2018 Code)
7-8-4: TIME OF OPERATION RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven cycle or a motorized
scooter on a street or highway in the Town during a time when State law
prohibits the operation of such vehicle. (2018 Code)
7-8-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motorized
scooter or moped at a speed greater than the speed limit provided by ordinance
of the Town for automobiles or other motor vehicles nor at a speed greater than
the speed limit regularly posted for automobiles or other motor vehicles within
the corporate limits of the Town.
   B.   No person shall operate any motor driven cycle at a speed greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   C.   No person shall operate any motorized scooter:
      1.   At a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour; or
      2.   On any roadway with a posted speed limit of greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour.
   D.   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing. (2018 Code)
7-8-6: OPERATION BY PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN:
   A.   The operation of motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motorized scooters
and mopeds within the corporate limits of the Town is prohibited for persons
under sixteen (16) years of age between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and four thirty o'clock (4:30) A.M.
   B.   In no event nor at any time shall an operator under the age of sixteen
(16) years drive a motorcycle on a street or highway which has a minimum speed
limit established and posted.
   C.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall operate any motorcycle,
motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or moped having an engine size greater
than one hundred twenty five (125) cc. (2018 Code)
7-8-7: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters And Mopeds: The following equipment
shall be required on all motorcycles, motorized scooters and mopeds being
operated and driven in the Town:
      1.   Rear View Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his or her vehicle.
      2.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects; except, that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator may wear goggles or a face shield of sufficient material and design to
protect his or her eyes from foreign objects.
      3.   Brakes And Brake Light:
         a.   All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One means shall be
effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel, and one means shall apply the
brakes to the rear wheel.
         b.   All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade or color
between red or amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of either brake system described in subsection A3a of this section.
      4.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
      5.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
      6.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the rear, and such
lights required by this subsection shall be illuminated whenever such vehicles
are in motion.
      7.   Muffler; Cutout: It shall be an offense to operate any motorized
vehicle covered under this section with the exhaust system modified so that
motor noise is increased greater than that of the original muffler provided by
the manufacturer of the vehicle.
      8.   Headgear: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate
or ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall
consist of lining, padding and chin straps and be of a design so as not to
distort the view of the driver.
   B.   Bicycles:
      1.   Lights And Reflector: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from distances of fifty
feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
      2.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake of sufficient
braking force that the operator is able to make the braked wheel skid on dry,
level, clean pavement. (2018 Code)
7-8-8: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to all
other vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (2018 Code)
7-8-9: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped by the manufacturer.
   C.   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars. (2018 Code)
7-8-10: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Roadways:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as near as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of
the roadway except under any of the following situations:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction.
         b.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
         c.   When reasonably necessary to avoid hazardous conditions and while
exercising due care, including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Fixed or moving objects;
            (2)   Parked or moving vehicles;
            (3)   Pedestrians or animals;
            (4)   Surface hazards; or
            (5)   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right hand curb
or edge of the roadway.
      2.   Any person riding a bicycle upon a one-way street or highway with
two (2) or more marked lanes of travel may ride as near as practicable to the
left hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
      3.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the normal and
reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single
lane.
   B.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   C.   Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Town limits in a manner that is unsafe or disrespectful to the
rights of pedestrians. The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, is
authorized to have signs erected on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when such signs are in place, no
person shall disobey the same.
   D.   Use Of Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not
use the roadway if required by local, Municipal or County ordinances. (2018
Code)
7-8-11: PARKING BICYCLES:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or highway other than upon the
roadway against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle, or against a building, or at the curb in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2018 Code)
7-8-12: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
The parent or legal guardian of any child, or the guardian of any ward, shall
not authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (2018 Code)
7-8-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who commits any act forbidden, or fails to perform any act required,
in this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The conviction for the violation of any offense in this
chapter shall not be recorded on the driving record of the person. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 9
UTILITY VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS AND SIMILAR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Operating Restrictions
7-9-3: Permit Requirements
7-9-4: Penalties
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV): A vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine
manufactured and used exclusively for off highway use traveling on four (4) or
more low pressure tires, and having a seat designed to be straddled by the
operator and handlebars for steering.
GOLF CART: Any four (4) wheeled internal combustible or electrical vehicle that
is powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable storage
batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed is greater
than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than twenty five (25) miles per
hour designed primarily for operation on a recreational golf course, which is
not registered with the State of Oklahoma.
LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLE: Any four (4) wheeled electrical vehicle that is
powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable storage
batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed is greater
than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than twenty five (25) miles per
hour and is manufactured in compliance with the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration standards for low speed vehicles in 49 CFT 571.500.
MAINTENANCE UTILITY VEHICLE: A vehicle powered by either an internal combustion
engine or electrical vehicle that is powered by an electric motor that draws
current from rechargeable storage batteries or other sources of electrical
current and whose top speed is greater than twenty (20) miles per hour but not
greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour utilized for transportation of
Town employees or equipment during routine maintenance of Town owned property
or facilities.
MINITRUCK: A foreign manufactured import or domestic manufactured vehicle
powered by an internal combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of
one thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters or less, which is sixty seven inches
(67") or less in width, with an unladen dry weight of three thousand four
hundred (3,400) pounds or less, traveling on four (4) or more tires, having a
top speed of approximately fifty five (55) miles per hour, equipped with a bed
or compartment for hauling, and having an enclosed passenger cab.
UTILITY VEHICLE: A vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine,
manufactured and used exclusively for off highway use, equipped with seating
for two (2) or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four (4) or more
wheels.
WHEELCHAIR: Any self-propelled vehicle, designed for and used by a person with
a disability, that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight (8) miles per
hour. (Ord. 2015-02, 11-9-2015)
7-9-2: OPERATING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the definitions of the terms "motor vehicle" and
"motorcycle" contained in 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1-134 and 1-135,
respectively, motor driven cycles, known and commonly referred to as all-
terrain vehicles (ATVs) and other similar trade names, shall not be permitted
to be operating on the streets, roadways or highways of the Town. This shall
not prohibit occasional necessary movement of these vehicles on streets. (Ord.
2015-02, 11-9-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The provisions of this section shall also apply to those motor driven
or operated vehicles known as "go-carts", power lawn mowers, wheelchairs and
other motor vehicles which are manufactured principally for use off the streets
and highways. However, this shall not prohibit occasional necessary movement of
such golf carts, go-carts, power lawn mowers and other vehicles on streets, and
shall not prohibit the use of minibikes and trail bikes used by participants in
parades approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting farm
vehicles from using the streets or highways.
   D.   Golf carts and utility vehicles (UV), side by side four- wheelers and
small vehicles commonly known as "minitrucks" are prohibited from operating on
Federal and State highways and Town streets within the limits of the Town
except as follows:
      1.   When the ATV, UV or golf cart is operated by a person sixteen (16)
years of age or older who possesses a valid operator license, during the
daylight hours only. Daylight hours are determined to be one-half (1/2) hour
after sunrise and one-half (1/2) hour before sunset as listed by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
      2.   ATVs, UVs and golf carts may operate on a Federal or State highway
only if making a perpendicular (90 degree) crossing of a Federal or State
highway located within the limits of the Town.
      3.   Every person operating an ATV, UV or golf cart upon a street shall
be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring rules of the road
applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the Town applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this section and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which, by their nature,
can have no application.
      4.   All ATVs, UVs and golf carts, while operating in the limits of the
Town, shall have a "slow moving vehicle" emblem which shall be affixed to the
rear portion of the vehicle. ATVs, UVs and golf carts shall be equipped with a
lap safety belt for each occupant of the ATV, UV or golf cart. Passengers under
the age of six (6) years are restricted from riding upon such ATV, UV or golf
cart unless the driver of the golf vehicle is twenty one (21) years of age or
older.
      5.   All such golf carts, ATVs and UVs, while operating in the limits of
the Town, shall be restricted from operating on a street or highway with a
posted speed limit greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour and shall not
be driven at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      6.   Any operator desiring to operate any ATV, UV or golf cart on any
street of the Town will be required to:
         a.   Register the ATV, golf cart or UV with the Town Police
Department.
         b.   Purchase a Town permit for such operation from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The permit will be valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the
date of purchase.
         c.   Carry liability insurance issued through a licensed insurance
company.
         d.   Riders seventeen (17) years of age and younger must wear an
approved helmet when riding on public lands.
         e.   No driver under sixteen (16) years of age shall transport any
passenger.
         f.   No driver shall transport any passenger unless the ATV, UV or
golf cart has been manufactured to transport more than one passenger.
   E.   Town owned maintenance vehicles may be operating anywhere within the
Town limits while performing authorized Town functions. Operating of the
maintenance utility vehicle on any street or highway with speed limits posted
greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour must be authorized by the Board of
Trustees or their designee.
   F.   When a person is operating a motorized wheelchair, that person has the
same rights and duties applicable to pedestrians and is subject to the same
rules as authorized by 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-501.1 and Federal law 28
CFR 35.137 (2011), except those provisions which, by their nature, can have no
application. Users of mobility devices should exercise caution and
consideration, and:
      1.   Where a sidewalk is provided, it is unlawful for the operator to
operate a wheelchair along the adjacent roadway. However, where sidewalks are
not provided and when practicable, the operator can operate a mobility device
only on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic and shall
yield to vehicles as authorized by 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-506.
      2.   Operators cannot use a road if a "No Pedestrian" sign is posted.
      3.   Operators can only cross streets at corner street crossings with
careful attention to cross traffic.
      4.   Drinking and driving is discouraged. Alcohol related offenses such
as public intoxication will apply.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a wheelchair to carry a
passenger on the wheelchair.
      6.   At night, lights and reflectors are required to be on the wheelchair
that is clearly visible on the front and rear thereof. (Ord. 2015-02, 11-9-
2015)
7-9-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: In order to obtain a permit to operate an all-
terrain or utility type vehicle within the limits of the Town, an applicant
must make an annual application therefor at the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer and provide the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain or utility type vehicle(s) to
be operated within the Town by the applicant;
      3.   Valid operator license issued by the State of Oklahoma; and
      4.   Year, make, model, color, engine size, and vehicle identification
number (VIN) of the utility type vehicle(s) to be operated within the Town by
the applicant.
   B.   Inspection: The all-terrain or utility type vehicle must pass
inspection by a person designated by the Town to ensure that the vehicle meets
the following requirements:
      1.   At least one working headlight and taillight.
      2.   A working brake light.
      3.   At least one rearview mirror.
      4.   A working seat belt on a utility type vehicle.
      5.   A brake system maintained in good operating condition.
      6.   A muffler system in good working condition properly attached to the
ATV or utility type vehicle which reduces the noise of operation of the motor
to the minimum necessary for operation.
      7.   Qualified spark arrester.
      8.   Permit sticker prominently displayed in the front and rear fender or
similar component of the operator's ATV or utility type vehicle.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit: Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by
the applicable fine and costs. In addition, any person receiving three (3) or
more citations within a twelve (12) month period shall, upon conviction of the
third or subsequent offense, have his/her permit to operate an all-terrain or
utility type vehicle within the Town limits revoked for a period of one year
from the date of conviction. Upon completion of the revocation period, the
person must reapply for a permit in order to operate an ATV or utility type
vehicle within the Town limits. (Ord. 2015-02, 11-9-2015)
7-9-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this chapter shall pay a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00), plus costs. (Ord. 2015-02, 11-9-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 10
TEXTING WHILE OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE
SECTION:
7-10-1: Purpose
7-10-2: Definitions
7-10-3: Prohibitions
7-10-4: Exemptions From Provisions
7-10-5: Enforcement
7-10-6: Violation; Penalty
7-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Improve roadway safety for all vehicle operators, passengers,
bicyclists, pedestrians, and other road users;
   B.   Prevent crashes related to distracted driving by use of portable
electronic devices while driving a motor vehicle;
   C.   Reduce injuries, death, property damage, healthcare costs, health
insurance and automobile insurance rates related to motor vehicle crashes; and
   D.   Authorize law enforcement officers to stop vehicles and issue citations
to persons using portable electronic devices for texting while driving as a
primary offense. (Ord. 2015-03, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-10-2015)
7-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by the
Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Any service lawfully provided for a charge or
compensation by any cable system or by any radio, fiber optic, photo-optical,
electromagnetic, photo-electronic, satellite, microwave, data transmission,
internet based or wireless distribution network, system or facility including,
but not limited to, any electronic data, video, audio, internet access,
microwave and radio communications, transmissions, signals and services and any
such communications, transmissions, signals and services directly or indirectly
by or through any of those networks, systems or facilities.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: Any electronic device, used or capable of
being used in a handheld manner, that is designed or intended to receive or
transmit text or character based messages, access or store data, or connect to
the internet or any communications service that allows test communications.
This term does not include a voice activated global positioning or navigation
system that is affixed to a motor vehicle.
PUBLIC TRANSIT DRIVER:
   A.   Any operator of a public transit vehicle owned and operated by the
State of Oklahoma, any Public Trust Authority, County, Municipality, Town or
City within this State;
   B.   Any operator of a school bus or multipassenger motor vehicle owned and
approved to operate by the State Department of Education or any school district
within this State; or
   C.   Any operator, conductor or driver of a locomotive engine, railway car
or train of cars.
WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT BASED COMMUNICATION (Also Known As TEXTING):
Manually entering alphanumeric text into, sending text, or reading text from an
electronic device, and includes, but is not limited to, short message service
(SMS), e-mailing, instant messaging (IM), a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page, or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication. (Ord. 2015-03, 11-9-2015, eff.
11-10-2015)
7-10-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle or a
commercial motor vehicle or for a public transit driver to operate a motor
vehicle on any street or highway within the Town while using a cellular
telephone or electronic communication device or while sending or reading data
on such a device for the purpose of nonvoice interpersonal communication
including, but not limited to, communication methods known as texting, e-
mailing and instant messaging, while the motor vehicle is in motion. For
purposes of this subsection, a motor vehicle that is stationary and is not
being operated is not subject to the prohibition as provided in this
subsection. (Ord. 2015-03, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-10-2015)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within the Town while using a hand-held electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion. (2018 Code)
7-10-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a motor vehicle
operator who is:
      1.   A law enforcement, fire service, or emergency medical services
professional performing official duties while operating an emergency vehicle;
      2.   Reporting an emergency, or criminal or suspicious activity to law
enforcement authorities;
      3.   Receiving messages that are:
         a.   Related to the operation or navigation of the motor vehicle;
         b.   Safety related information including emergency, traffic or
weather alerts;
         c.   Data used primarily by the motor vehicle; or
         d.   Radio broadcasts;
      4.   Using voice commands to select or enter a telephone number, an
extension number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic
device for the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call;
      5.   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global positioning
system or navigation system;
      6.   Conducting wireless interpersonal communication that does not
require manual entry of multiple letters, numbers or symbols, except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function;
      7.   Conducting wireless interpersonal communication that does not
require reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate or initiate a
feature or function;
      8.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions for a
purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in this section, including, but not
limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones,
citizens band radios, and music players; or
      9.   Using or operating a citizens band radio.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to railroads and railroad operating
employees regulated by the Federal Railroad Administration. (Ord. 2015-03, 11-
9-2015, eff. 11-10-2015)
7-10-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The billing records for a cellular device or electronic communications
device, when properly obtained by law enforcement authorities or the testimony
of or written statements from appropriate authorities receiving such messages,
may be admissible as evidence in any proceeding to determine whether a
violation of this chapter has been committed.
   B.   Except when the person is the holder of a commercial driver license and
is operating a commercial motor vehicle or the person is serving in the
capacity of a public transit driver and is operating a motor vehicle, the
enforcement of this chapter by State or local law enforcement agencies must be
accomplished only as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has
been detained for a suspected violation of another traffic law provided in this
title.
   C.   Violation of this section shall not serve as the basis for denying
otherwise applicable motor vehicle insurance coverage. (Ord. 2015-03, 11-9-
2015, eff. 11-10-2015)
7-10-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 2015-03, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-11-1: Enforcement Officials
7-11-2: Violations
7-11-3: Direction Of Traffic; Obedience Required
7-11-4: Citations; Requirements And Prohibitions
7-11-5: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
7-11-6: Records And Filings
7-11-7: Penalties
7-11-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It is the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any officers that
are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic laws of the
Town and all the State vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the Town.
Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of the Town. Officers may issue
written notice to appear to any driver of a vehicle involved in an accident
when, based on personal investigation, the officer has reasonable and probable
grounds to believe that the person has committed an offense under the
provisions of this title in connection with the accident. (2014 Code § 15-201)
7-11-2: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this title with
respect to particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do any
act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (2018 Code)
   B.   It is an offense against the Town for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   C.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this title. (2014 Code § 15-1401)
7-11-3: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Direction Of Traffic:
      1.   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      2.   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (2014 Code § 15-202)
   B.   Obedience To Police And Fire Officials: No person shall wilfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or
Fire Department official invested by law with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic. (2014 Code § 15-204; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Direction By Unauthorized Persons: No unauthorized person shall direct
or attempt to direct traffic, except in case of emergency where no officer is
present. (2014 Code § 15-203)
7-11-4: CITATIONS; REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation Tags; Arrests:
      1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall bear briefly
the charge and the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the
violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within the time as may be specified thereon.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection A shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      3.   The Chief of Police may require that the police use citation tags
furnished by the Town and that such tags are serially numbered, and may
regulate the use and handling of the citation tags. (2014 Code § 15-222)
   B.   Disposition And Records Of Citations And Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title, shall deposit the citation with an
immediate superior officer who shall cause the original to be delivered to the
Municipal Court of the Town and the central records section of the Police
Department.
      2.   Upon the filing of such original citation in the Municipal Court of
the Town, the citation may be disposed of by the Town Attorney, by trial in the
court or by other official action by a Judge of the court, including the
settlement of bail or the payment of a fine, or may be dismissed by the Judge
if, in his opinion, the actions complained of do not constitute a violation of
traffic ordinances.
      3.   The Chief of Police shall require the return to him of each traffic
citation and all copies thereof, except that copy required to be retained in
the book as provided herein, which has been spoiled or upon which an entry has
been made, and has not been issued to an alleged violator.
      4.   The Chief of Police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained in
connection with every traffic citation issued by a member of the Police
Department a record of the disposition of the charge by the Municipal Court of
the Town.
      5.   The Chief of Police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained a
record of all warrants issued by the Municipal Court of the Town, all the
traffic fines which are delivered to the Police Department for service and of
the final disposition of the warrant. (2014 Code § 15-223)
   C.   Citation As A Lawful Complaint: In the event the form of citation
provided herein includes information and is sworn to, then such citation, when
filed with the Municipal Court, shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for
the purpose of prosecution under this chapter. (2014 Code § 15-224)
   D.   Failure To Comply With Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle:
      1.   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of days as specified on
the citation, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the
motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him
of the violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded
for the specified period of days, a warrant of arrest may be issued.
      2.   On any occasion where two (2) or more such traffic citations have
been affixed on the same vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this subsection D. (2014 Code § 15-225)
   E.   Cancellation Of Citations Prohibited: It is unlawful and official
misconduct for any member of the Police Department or other officer or public
employee to dispose of, alter, or deface any traffic citation or any copy
thereof or the record of issuance of any traffic citation, complaint or warrant
in any manner other than is required in this section. (2018 Code)
7-11-5: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or regulation, together
with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the
parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person
who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, the violation occurred. The presumption in this subsection herein shall
apply only when the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(2014 Code § 15-226)
7-11-6: RECORDS AND FILINGS:
   A.   The Municipal Judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action taken by the court or its traffic violations bureau in
reference thereto including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture. (2014 Code § 15-228)
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the court shall prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of
Public Safety a certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An
abstract need not be made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or
standing of a vehicle. The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the
State Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the
party charged, the number of his operator license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (2014 Code § 15-228; amd. 2018 Code)
7-11-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever in this title, in any ordinance of the Town, or in any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to this title, any act or failure to do a
required act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided herein or therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this title or any ordinance or rule shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), excluding
court costs, except where another specific penalty is established in this
title. If a penalty is limited by State law, such violations shall be
punishable by not to exceed the maximum permitted by State law or the amount
declared by the Town, if not greater than State law. (2014 Code § 15-1402; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   The suspension or revocation of any license, certificate or other
privilege conferred by the Town shall not be regarded as a penalty for the
purpose of this title but shall be in addition thereto. (2014 Code § 15-1402)
ARTICLE A. IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-11A-1: Purpose And Effect
7-11A-2: Authority To Impound
7-11A-3: Place Of Impoundment
7-11A-4: Duration Of Impoundment; Release Of Vehicle
7-11A-5: Violation; Penalties
7-11A-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this article
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (2014 Code § 15-1301)
7-11A-2: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized, within the limits set
forth in this article, to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this article. (2014 Code § 15-1304)
   A.   Disabled Vehicles: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be
impounded under the following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal, and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(2014 Code § 15-1305)
   B.   Vehicles On Bridge: An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct
or causeway or in any tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hazard, may be impounded. (2014 Code § 15-1306)
   C.   Arrest And Detention Of Driver: Whenever the driver or person in charge
of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody and detained by
police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on
any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded, unless the driver or
person in charge can provide immediately for the vehicle's custody or removal.
(2014 Code § 15-1307)
   D.   Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded. (2014 Code § 15-1308)
   E.   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle:
      1.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this title may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this subsection.
      2.   If a violation of the provisions of this title occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing. (2014 Code § 15-
1309)
      3.   In addition to any procedure provided by local ordinance, whenever
the owner or legal possessor of real property or an authorized agent has
reasonable cause to believe that a vehicle has been abandoned thereon, said
vehicle having been on said property for a minimum of forty eight (48) hours,
or whenever a vehicle is left upon said real property without express or
implied permission, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage. (2018 Code)
   F.   Vehicle Parked Overtime: Any unattended vehicle which has been parked
for more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in any place
shall be impounded, and any vehicle parked in violation of this title,
regarding more than forty eight (48) hours, shall be impounded. (2014 Code §
15-1310)
   G.   Vehicle Blocking Fire Exit Or Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked in
such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded. (2014 Code § 15-1311)
   H.   Vehicle Parked In Intersection: Any unattended vehicle illegally parked
in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection with the person in charge of the vehicle being present shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing. (2014 Code § 15-1312)
   I.   Stolen Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to
impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
      2.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (2014 Code § 15-1313)
   J.   Vehicle With Outstanding Traffic Citations: Any vehicle for which two
(2) or more citations have been issued for violation of an ordinance and have
not been presented as required may be impounded if parked in violation of any
provision of this title. (2014 Code § 15-1314)
   K.   Expired Tags: On and after the last day of the month following the
expiration date for annual registration of a vehicle, any police officer may
seize and take into custody any vehicle owned within this State not bearing or
displaying a proper license plate required by the State Vehicle License and
Registration Act. The vehicle shall not be released to the owner until it is
duly registered and the license, registration, or title fee and penalties due
are paid in full, and the cost of seizure, including the reasonable cost of
taking the vehicle into custody and storing the vehicle, have been paid. In the
event the owner of any vehicle seized fails to pay such fees and penalties due,
together with costs of seizure and storage, the State Tax Commission or its
motor license agents shall proceed to sell the vehicle by posting not less than
five (5) notices of sale in five (5) different public places in the County
where the vehicle is located, one of such notices to be posted at the place
where the vehicle is stored; provided further, that a copy of the notice shall
also be sent by certified mail, restricted delivery, with return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the registered owner of such vehicle in
question. (2014 Code § 15-1315)
7-11A-3: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this article shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Town
and to no other place. (2014 Code § 15-1302)
7-11A-4: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority of this
article shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release is
received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer. The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be
conditioned upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
(2014 Code § 15-1303)
7-11A-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this article or any regulation promulgated
pursuant hereto shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person, upon conviction
therefor, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days in the County
Jail, or both such fine and imprisonment. (2018 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-2: Projections Into, Overhanging Public Ways
8-1-3: Injury To Trees And Shrubs
8-1-4: Street And Curb Cuts
8-1-5: Playing On Streets
8-1-6: Violation; Penalty
8-1-7: Closing Of Public Ways And Easements
8-1-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or to
obstruct in any manner any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way by
leaving or permitting to remain thereon or therein any vehicle, object,
material, structure, fence or other obstruction of any kind so as to interfere
with lawful traffic and parking thereon or interfere with pedestrian traffic.
(2014 Code § 14-101; amd. 2018 Code)
         b.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in subsection A1a of this section, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such
conditions and to move on or disburse, or to remove any obstructions. Any
person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation
of this subsection A1. (2014 Code § 14-102; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Trees And Shrubs:
         a.   The owner or occupant of every lot or parcel of land in the Town
upon which any trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any
obstruction has been placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or
obstruction, or parts thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a
traffic hazard by obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the
streets of the Town to the extent that the driver is unable to observe the
approach of other vehicles on streets and alleys and at intersections.
         b.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. Such trees
and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or foliage shall not
be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or alley, nor lower
than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (2014 Code § 14-103; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Encroachments On Rights-Of-Way And Easements:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or otherwise prevent access to any street, alley, or other Town owned property
from time to time in the public interest.
         b.   The Town may permit certain streets, alleys and Town properties
which are dedicated, but not required for traffic or other public access or
use, to be fenced or otherwise made inaccessible to the public, as in the case
of land being farmed or grazed as a part of a larger field or pasture. The Town
or any of its officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress,
and easement for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning,
grading, moving, or any other activity which is in the public interest.
      4.   Obstacles In Street Rights-Of-Way:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or operate
any building, sign, fence, post, gasoline pump, driveway canopy, tree, shrub,
or other thing or structure on any right-of-way of or upon any street in the
Town, and the constructing or maintaining of any such thing or structure on any
right-of-way of or upon any street shall constitute a public nuisance, which
may be summarily abated by the Town or its officers, agents, and employees in
the manner provided in this subsection.
         b.   If the owner or person in possession of any of the items
mentioned in subsection A4a of this section on any right-of- way or upon any
street fails to remove such structure or thing for a period of ten (10) days
after written demand for the removal thereof has been made upon him by
registered or certified mail or personal service, the Town, its officers,
agents, and employees are hereby authorized and empowered to physically tear
down and remove such thing or structure and, for such purposes, may enter upon
private property to the extent necessary to accomplish such removal. Neither
the Town nor its officers, agents, or employees shall be liable for any damage
caused or sustained by reason of the abatement and removal of such nuisance.
         c.   This subsection A4 is not intended to prevent the construction or
maintenance of any culvert or driveway as a means of ingress or egress to
private property. The Town shall have the authority to regulate the
construction and maintenance of such culverts or driveways with due regard to
the safety of the traveling public and also drainage and maintenance of the
streets. (2018 Code)
   B.   Duties Of Owners And Occupants Regarding Sidewalks Adjacent To
Properties:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow any
obstruction of any kind to accumulate in the sidewalk in front of his premises.
All owners and occupants of property are required to keep their premises and
the sidewalks, gutters, streets and alleys adjacent thereto free from weeds,
trash and all obstructions and to remove such weeds, trash and obstructions
from such places.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw
or allow to seep into or upon a street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the Town
any paper, rubbish, grass, crates, boxes, trash, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt or
any other refuse of any kind. (2014 Code § 14-108; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to
the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(2014 Code § 14-108)
   C.   Businesses Generally:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets, and alleys of the
Town any goods, wares, articles or merchandise, or any other obstruction and
leave the same thereon or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct,
erect, place, operate, maintain, or permit to exist any icebox, ice dock,
gasoline pump, gasoline storage reservoir, tire rack, tire tools or equipment,
water hose connection, or any tools, stands, equipment, merchandise, or
appurtenances thereof, aerials, poles, or wires therefor, whether permanent or
temporary, or any other obstruction upon any part of any street, alley,
parkway, curbing, or parking within the Town.
      3.   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a motor vehicle service
station or other place of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause
or allow water, grease, other fluid, or polluting substance to flow or drain
into, upon, over, or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley or other
public way.
   D.   Drainage: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct any street, sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or
other obstruction or substances whatever that will obstruct or prevent the
natural flow of water into the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to
back any water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutters. (2018 Code)
8-1-2: PROJECTIONS INTO, OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally; Permit Required When Permitted: It is unlawful
for any person to erect or construct, or cause to be erected or constructed,
any cellar or basement way, stairway, door, awning post, canopy or any other
kind of structure projecting into, upon or over and adjoining any street or
sidewalk within the Town; except, that the Code Enforcement Officer may, in his
discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the public health, safety and
necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit; Nonliability Of Town: Upon the granting of a
permit under this section, conditions as to the erection of the structure
through, upon or over any street or sidewalk may be fixed by the Town, and a
contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance of the structure and an
indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and saving the Town harmless from
any loss, costs or damage by reason of the structure projecting into, upon or
over and adjoining any street or sidewalk within the limits of the Town. (2014
Code § 14-104; amd. 2018 Code)
8-1-3: INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on any street or
alley in the Town. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care
and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (2014 Code § 14-106)
8-1-4: STREET AND CURB CUTS:
   A.   Street Cuts:
      1.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to cut the pavement
or curb in or on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues or alleys in the Town
for the purpose of laying pipe or other connections for utilities, or to cut or
otherwise injure the pavement or curb on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues
or alleys for any purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor as provided by
this subsection. (2014 Code § 14-201)
      2.   Application For Permit: Every person who desires to lay pipes or
lines for the purpose of making and preparing any connections to utilities
which will require the cutting of the pavement to make such connections shall
make application for and procure from the Town a written permit to cut such
pavement or curb and make such installations for the proposed purpose or
otherwise. No person shall have any right or authority to construct or install
any pipes or lines or otherwise cut the pavement or curbs without first having
secured such permit. (2014 Code § 14-202)
      3.   Permit Fee: Any person desiring to cut the pavement or other hard
surface on any street or sidewalk in the Town shall pay a fee for the permit.
The fee shall be in such amount as set by the Town Board by motion or
resolution. (2014 Code § 14-203)
      4.   Completion Of Work:
         a.   Notify Town: All permittees, when they have completed the work
for which such cut has been made, shall notify the Town of the completion of
such work in order that the same may be inspected and approved. (2014 Code §
14-204)
         b.   Timely Completion: Any permittee cutting pavement by virtue of a
permit as authorized herein shall perform the excavation or other work without
delay or interruption. (2014 Code § 14-205)
   B.   Curb Cuts:
      1.   Compliance With Provisions: It is unlawful for any person to cut,
break, tear out or remove the curbing or any part thereof along the streets in
the Town for any purpose except in accordance with this subsection.
      2.   Permit Required: Any person desiring to cut any curbing in the Town
shall first obtain a permit from the Town before doing so.
      3.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be in
writing to the Town and shall state the time and place that the applicant
desires to break the curbing. The application shall contain such other
information as is required by the Town. (2014 Code § 14-211)
      4.   Denial Of, Restrictions On Permit: The Town may, in its discretion,
refuse to approve any permit to cut any curbing along the streets of the Town
when the cutting of the curbing shall constitute a traffic hazard, or interfere
in any way with the safety of the public in the use of the street or adjacent
sidewalk, or in any way deteriorate or damage the street or interfere with the
use thereof by the public. Only such portions of any curbing may be cut or
removed as in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer may be consistent
with and not detrimental to the general public welfare. (2014 Code § 14-211;
amd. 2018 Code)
      5.   Permit Fee: A fee as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution shall be paid to the Town prior to obtaining the permit required in
this subsection. (2014 Code § 14-212)
      6.   Inspections: The removing of such curbing, the construction of the
driveway and all other parts of the work in connection therewith shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of the Town. (2014 Code § 14-213)
8-1-5: PLAYING ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game, or amusement, or to
play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street, avenue
or alley of the Town, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (2014 Code §
14-105)
8-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (2014 Code § 14-109)
8-1-7: CLOSING OF PUBLIC WAYS AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   The town may close to the public use any public way or easement within
the municipality, whenever deemed necessary or expedient, through the adoption
of an ordinance by the Board of Trustees to effect such closing.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings provided below:
      1.   “Close” means a legislative act of the governing body of the town
discontinuing the public use of a public way or easement without affecting
title to real property.
      2.   “Public way” means a street, avenue, boulevard, alley, lane or
thoroughfare open for public use.
      3.   “Easement” means rights in real property as set forth in Title 60,
Section 49 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   C.   Written notice of any proposed closing of a public way or easement
shall be given to any holder of a franchise, to all owners of record, as shown
by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the Oklahoma County Treasurer,
whose property is within three hundred (300) feet in any direction from the
public way or easement, and to any other party who may have a special right or
privilege granted by ordinance or legislative enactment to use the public way
or easement. Said notice shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to
passage of any ordinance providing for the closing of a public way or easement.
   D.   The town may retain the absolute right to reopen a public way or
easement without expense to the town. A public way or easement may be reopened
by ordinance whenever:
      1.   The municipal governing body deems it necessary or appropriate; or
      2.   An application of the property owners owning more than one half (½)
in area of the property abutting on the public way or easement previously
closed is filed with the governing body.
   E.   Closing of a public way or easement shall not affect the right to
maintain, repair, reconstruct, operate or remove utility, franchise owners or
transmission company facilities or service therein, nor shall a closing affect
private ways existing by operation of law unless released in a writing executed
by the owners thereof. (Ord. 2019-07, 12-9-2019)
State law reference:
   Power to close public ways and easements, 11 O.S. 42-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
GARAGE AND YARD SALES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Placement Of Signs On Rights-Of-Way
8-2-3: Parking; Temporary Controls
8-2-4: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PERSONS: Individuals, partnerships, family groups, voluntary associations and
corporations.
PUBLIC UTILITY POLES: Any permanent structure or pole that is utilized for the
conveyance of public utilities including, but not limited to, electricity,
telephone, cable television, and internet service.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY: A. Public rights-of-way or easements to the Town of Locust
Grove, Oklahoma or the Locust Grove Public Works Authority which are contiguous
to roadways.
   B.   Public rights-of-way or easements held by the State of Oklahoma or
Mayes County, State of Oklahoma, which are contiguous to roadways, if not
otherwise restricted to the placement of signage by law, proclamation or
regulations.
SIGN: A nonpermanent sign for use as an advertisement for a garage sale and/or
yard sale shall not be more than twenty four inches (24") in height nor more
than twenty four inches (24") in width and shall be attached to a supporting
device, with the sign and supporting device to be not more than thirty six
inches (36") in height. The sign must contain the purpose of the sale, address/
location of the garage sale and/or yard sale, the date of the sale and the time
the sale will commence and end.
TRAVELED SURFACE: The paved portion of any public roadway or right-of-way.
YARD SALE AND GARAGE SALE: A sale held by individual or individuals or an
organization for purposes of selling new, used or secondhand items of personal
property at a residence or other private property. Such sale by an individual
or individuals or an organization may only be held on two (2) consecutive days
in a seven (7) day period. Such sales shall be conducted from no earlier than
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on each day of the sale.
The term includes all sales in residential areas entitled "garage sale", "yard
sale", "tag sale", "porch sale", "lawn sale", "attic sale", "basement sale",
"rummage sale", "flea market sale" or any similar casual sale of tangible
personal property. (2018 Code)
8-2-2: PLACEMENT OF SIGNS ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   It shall be lawful for any yard sale or garage sale sign to be placed
on any right-of-way within the Town if the sign is placed at least six feet
(6') from the traveled surface of any right-of-way and shall not interfere with
or impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Two (2) signs are permitted and shall only be placed twenty four (24)
hours before and removed twenty four (24) hours after the garage or yard sale.
   C.   No signs shall be placed on any public utility poles. (2018 Code)
8-2-3: PARKING; TEMPORARY CONTROLS:
All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. Further, the Police Department may enforce such temporary
controls to alleviate any special hazards and/or congestion created by any
garage sale. (2018 Code)
8-2-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   Any sign that is placed on the rights-of-way in violation of this
chapter is unlawful. Each sign shall constitute a separate violation.
      2.   Any yard sale or garage sale held in violation of this chapter shall
be unlawful.
   B.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of a violation of any portion of
this chapter may be assessed a fine of up to twenty dollars ($20.00) per
violation, and court costs. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definition
8-3-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
8-3-3: Application For Permit
8-3-4: Bond May Be Required
8-3-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
8-3-6: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term "parade" means any parade, march, ceremony,
show, demonstration, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any
similar display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the Town.
(2014 Code § 10-405)
8-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other
property owned or controlled by the Town, except those places specifically
designed and intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting,
causing or participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival,
assemblage or activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or
interference of the normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons,
without first having obtained a permit for such purpose. The permits may be
granted by the Town Clerk- Treasurer under such conditions as deemed
appropriate.
   B.   Permits shall not be required under this chapter in the case of
construction or repairs to or within any such street or property, provided
there is compliance with all other requirements of this Code. (2014 Code § 10-
405)
8-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Not less than two (2) weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or property
for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the Town. The
time requirements may be waived by the Town Clerk-Treasurer at his discretion
if sufficient time exists for the proper review of the application as herein
provided. The application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed by the
Town. The application shall provide such other information as requested. (2014
Code § 10-405)
8-3-4: BOND MAY BE REQUIRED:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer, in such cases as shall be determined in his/her
discretion, may require as a condition to the issuance of a permit herein such
insurance or bond holding the Town harmless from any and all liability for
injury or damage of any kind whatsoever occurring during such activity covered
by the permit. (2014 Code § 10-405)
8-3-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance; Conditions: The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit as
provided hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such
other information as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
      1.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      2.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the Town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
Town; (2014 Code § 10-405)
      3.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of emergency vehicles as to prevent normal emergency service to
portions of the Town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of
march and areas contiguous thereto;
      4.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or emergency service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; (2014 Code § 10-405; amd. 2018 Code)
      5.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      6.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or to create a
disturbance; and
      7.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   B.   Denial; Alternate Permit:
      1.   Without regard to the provision of section
8-3-4 of this chapter, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, from his consideration of
available, appropriate and necessary information, shall deny the application
for a permit provided by this chapter when, from this information, he has
reason to believe that any contemplated advocacy at the proposed event will be
directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and will likely
incite or produce such action.
      2.   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, in denying an application for a parade
permit, may authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a
route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall so indicate within five (5) days after notice
of the action of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this chapter. (2014 Code § 10-405)
8-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine.
Punishment shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 10-113)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Rules And Regulations
8-4-2: Fees
8-4-3: Park Hours
8-4-4: Tobacco Possession Prohibited
8-4-5: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities owned or
operated by the Town. (2014 Code § 11-101)
8-4-2: FEES:
The Town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the Town. (2014 Code § 11-102)
8-4-3: PARK HOURS:
All Municipal parks within the Town shall be open for use between six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. daily. It shall be unlawful for any
individual to be within said areas at all other hours. (2014 Code § 11-103)
8-4-4: TOBACCO POSSESSION PROHIBITED:
The possession of tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and dangerous to
public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is on the grounds
of any public park, playground or recreation facility. Any person who knowingly
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (2018 Code)
8-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to use any of the park or recreational facilities without having
complied with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of Trustees in
connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations, or
failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 11-104; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Intent
8-5-2: Library Established
8-5-3: Library Board
8-5-4: Librarian And Library Policies
8-5-5: Annual Report Of Board
8-5-6: Library Funds
8-5-1: INTENT:
It is the desire and intent of the Town Board of Trustees to provide free
public library service to the residents of the Town. (2014 Code § 11-201)
8-5-2: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The Locust Grove Public Library is hereby established. (2014 Code § 11-202)
8-5-3: LIBRARY BOARD:
   A.   Membership; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation: The public
library shall be governed by a board of seven (7) members appointed by the
Mayor, with the approval of the Board of Trustees. Appointments of the Library
Board shall be made on the basis of ability, understanding of the total
responsibilities and objectives of public libraries, and an active interest in
the attainment of these goals. Board members must reside in the County in the
general vicinity of the Town. All Library Board members shall serve without
compensation.
   B.   Term Of Office; Vacancies: Board members shall hold office for a three
(3) year term from May 1 following their appointment, and their terms shall be
staggered. Vacancies on the Library Board shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments. (2018 Code)
   C.   Removal From Office: Any board member may be removed by the Board of
Trustees for misconduct, failure to attend Library Board meetings, or other
neglect of duty. (2014 Code § 11-204)
   D.   Organization:
      1.   Officers: Immediately after the initial appointments and annually
thereafter, the Library Board members shall meet and organize by an election
one of their number as President, one of their number as Secretary, and by
election of such other officers and they deem necessary. (2014 Code § 11-205;
amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Laws, Rules And Regulations: The board may adopt such laws, rules
and regulations for their own guidance and for the government of the library as
may be expedient and not inconsistent with this chapter and the laws of the
State. (2014 Code § 11-205)
8-5-4: LIBRARIAN AND LIBRARY POLICIES:
   A.   The Library Board, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, may
recommend the appointment of a librarian and may recommend an annual budget to
the Board of Trustees.
   B.   The board may set the policies of the library, accept or decline gifts,
and administer the expenditure of funds received from appropriations, gifts and
grants.
   C.   The Library Board may contract for and receive funds available to it
for library purposes from the United States, this State, and any agency or
instrumentalities of these entities. (2014 Code § 11-206)
8-5-5: ANNUAL REPORT OF BOARD:
   A.   The Library Board shall make, on or before July 31 in each year, an
annual report to the Town Board of Trustees stating:
      1.   The condition of its trust on June 30 of that year;
      2.   The various sums of money and property received from the Library
Fund and other sources, and how such monies have been expended and for what
purposes;
      3.   The budget for the library for the next fiscal year;
      4.   Statistics on the general character and number of books and
periodicals which:
         a.   Are on hand;
         b.   Are lost or missing;
         c.   Have been added by purchase, gift or otherwise during the year;
and
         d.   Have been loaned out during the year;
      5.   The number of persons making use of the library during the year; and
      6.   Such other information, statistics and suggestions as it may deem of
general interest. (2018 Code)
8-5-6: LIBRARY FUNDS:
   A.   The Board of Trustees may annually appropriate to the Library Board
from funds available to the Town such monies as are deemed necessary and
available to operate and maintain the public library for the education and
cultural enrichment of the citizens of the Town.
   B.   All monies received by the board on account of the operation of the
library shall be paid to the Town Clerk- Treasurer, who shall deposit the same
in the Municipal Treasury in a special and separate account designated the
Library Fund. Such monies shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized by
the Library Board of Directors. (2014 Code § 11-208)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNK VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Title/Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
8-6-4: Order Of Abatement
8-6-5: Responsibility For Removal
8-6-6: Notice To Remove
8-6-7: Hearing
8-6-8: Removal Of Motor Vehicles From Property
8-6-9: Collection Of Town’s Costs Of Removal
8-6-10: Penalty
8-6-1: TITLE/PURPOSE:
This chapter is entitled the Town of Locust Grove Abandoned Junk Vehicle
Chapter. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for public health, safety
and protection from the nuisance of abandoned, wrecked, etc. vehicles.
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle, as defined herein, which is wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, deteriorated, decayed, lacks necessary
repairs or maintenance, abandoned, bearing no state license plate or bearing a
state license plate that is more than three months out of date, or discarded.
OWNER: Any person, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in
the property, including an officer, guardian, executor, administrator,
mortgagee in possession, managing or leasing agent of such person, firm, or
corporation.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property which is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any political subdivision
thereof exercises control and dominion.
VEHICLE: A device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices designed to be moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, the term shall
include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles,
motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, boats and trailers.
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-3: PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to park, store,
leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any vehicle of any kind
which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked, or
partially dismantled condition whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the town for a period of time in excess of seventy-two
(72) hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions herein.
   B.   Screening: This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a
building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the town. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural, industrial, and salvage yard or towing service
(which comply with 69 O.S. 1251 et seq) purposes unless the nuisance is visible
from the public right of way. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-4: ORDER OF ABATEMENT:
In all cases where it shall have been determined that any nuisance shall be
abated, and the nuisance is not abated within the time specified in the notice,
an order of abatement shall be entered by the code enforcement officer or
designee and cause the vehicle or its parts to be removed and stored in a
proper place according to state regulations. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the
private property on which the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle is located, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the town or its designee, the owner of the private
property where the vehicle is located shall be liable for the expenses
incurred.
   B.   In addition to subsection one above, the owner of any vehicle so
removed may regain possession thereof by paying the designated wrecker service
all reasonable costs of towing and storage liens which shall have accrued to
such vehicle within thirty (30) days of removal. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-6: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   The code enforcement officer, shall give notice of removal to the owner
of the private property where a nuisance as defined by this chapter is located.
At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the property by
mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the County
Treasurer's office before the town takes action. It shall constitute sufficient
notice, when at the time of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the
code enforcement officer shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee and if such person or entity cannot be found, then a copy
of the notice may be served by posting a copy in some conspicuous place on the
premises upon which the vehicle is located, at least ten (10) days prior to any
abatement action by the code enforcement officer.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to abate the nuisance and
shall further state that unless such abatement is performed within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, the nuisance may be abated by the town. (Ord.
2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-7: HEARING:
   A.   The owner may give written consent authorizing the town to abate the
nuisance under
8-6-8 hereof. Such consent shall waive the right to a hearing under subsection
(C) hereof.
   B.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this article, the owner may request, in writing to the code
enforcement officer, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting
the determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The code
enforcement officer shall schedule a meeting with the Board of Trustees at a
time and place set by the Board. The Board of Trustees shall conduct such
hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five (5) days after
receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not later than fifteen
(15) days after such receipt.
   C.   At such hearing, such owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the code enforcement
officer, after such hearing, shall determine that the inoperative vehicle or
junked vehicle constitutes a growing blight or a substantial detriment to
health and safety of the residents of the community, he/she shall file, in
writing, findings of fact, and order that such nuisance be abated within ten
(10) days, and shall cause such finding and order to be served upon such owner
at the conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-8: REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES FROM PROPERTY:
   A.   If the violation described in the notice served pursuant to this
article has not been remedied within the ten (10) day period of compliance, or
in the event that a notice requesting a hearing has not been timely filed, and
the existence of the violation is affirmed by the code enforcement officer,
then the Board of Trustees, code enforcement officer or designee may continue
to recommend prosecution of criminal charges on a daily basis for failure to
abate the nuisance and/or shall have the right to take possession of the
inoperative or junked vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder, or to refuse to allow such person
or person to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle
under the provisions of this article.
   B.   Other Methods Not Excluded: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as preventing the abatement of the public nuisance of abandoned, wrecked,
junked, etc. vehicles by the town or its officials in accordance with state
law.
   C.   Court Order: Except as necessary under this section, an official herein
shall not use force to obtain access to private property if such premises are
occupied. If such permission is denied, the Ttwn shall apply to any Court
having jurisdiction for an Order assisting the abatement of the public
nuisance. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-9: COLLECTION OF TOWN'S COSTS OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the town to pay the unrecovered expense
including administrative fees (i.e., postage, lien filing costs, etc.) shall be
certified to the office of the Town Clerk who shall be responsible for billing
all of said costs to the property owner. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
8-6-10: PENALTY:
In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person who shall
violate any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty
of an offense against the town as provided in
Chapter 1-4-1. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day's
continuous violation shall constitute a separate offense and may be punishable
as such. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-14-2019)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
LEASE OF SYSTEMS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Lease Of Utilities To Public Works Authority
9-1-2: Rules Of Authority Adopted
9-1-3: Rate Schedule Of Authority Adopted
9-1-4: Waste Of Water; Conservation Measures
9-1-5: Utility Collection Fees
9-1-1: LEASE OF UTILITIES TO PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
The Town hereby consents and agrees to the lease of the Town's water, sanitary
sewerage and gas systems and facilities and all future additions thereto to the
Public Works Authority as authorized by statute, to be effective at the time
and upon the terms and conditions specified in a certain "lease" prepared under
the direction of the Town Board of Trustees and filed in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer on March 24, 1974 (passage date for ordinance 74-01). The Mayor
of the Town hereby is authorized and directed, on behalf of the Town, to
execute and deliver the lease of the Public Works Authority. (2014 Code § 17-
101; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-2: RULES OF AUTHORITY ADOPTED:
Rules and regulations adopted by the Public Works Authority are hereby adopted
and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set out in full herein.
Any violation of the rules and regulations of the authority shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A copy of the rules, regulations and policies are available
at the Public Works Authority Clerk's Office or Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
(2014 Code § 17-102; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-3: RATE SCHEDULE OF AUTHORITY ADOPTED:
The water and wastewater rate schedule as set by the authority is hereby
adopted and put into full force and effect, and the Locust Grove Public Works
Authority is hereby authorized to make proper provisions to implement the
schedule as shown for all customers of the Locust Grove Public Works Authority,
or changes thereto. A copy of the rate schedule is available at the Public
Works Authority Clerk's Office or Town Clerk- Treasurer's Office. (2014 Code §
17-103; amd. 2018 Code)
9-1-4: WASTE OF WATER; CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Preventing Waste; Maintaining Lines And Fixtures: All persons using
water from the water system shall exercise reasonable measures to prevent the
wanton or negligent waste thereof and prevent threats to the health, safety, or
welfare of the public by maintaining all private water lines and pipe between
the outlet side of the water meter and all fixture openings in watertight and
nonleaking condition and in accordance with all Town standards and
specifications.
   B.   Cutoff Valve: Such persons shall install and maintain an approved
cutoff valve in the private supply line for use in shutting off water during
the periods that repairs in any private water lines are necessary.
   C.   Responsibility Of Owner Or Occupant: All such repairs, and all
maintenance and the expenses thereof, shall be the responsibility of the owner
or occupant of the premises affected.
   D.   Failure To Make Repairs; Termination Of Service:
      1.   If any owner or occupant fails or refuses to make or cause to be
made such repairs as necessary to stop a leaky condition, his failure or
refusal shall be cause for the temporary termination by the Town of water
services at the premises.
      2.   The Town shall provide the owner or occupant twenty four (24) hours'
notice prior to the termination of water service hereunder.
      3.   Should said necessary repairs be made by a licensed plumber or
should arrangements be made by and between the owner or occupant and a licensed
plumber for said necessary repairs to be made within a time period acceptable
to the utility billing director or his designated representative, and should
said necessary repairs or arrangements for repairs be reasonably verifiable by
the utility billing director within said twenty four (24) hour notice period,
then service to said premises shall not be terminated hereunder. However,
should said necessary repairs not have been made pursuant to the standards,
specifications, and requirements of the Town, or should said repairs not have
been made within a reasonable time pursuant to said arrangements, then said
water service may be terminated without further notice.
   E.   Conservation Requirement: Upon direction by the Town staff to conserve
water during a drought or to prevent a water shortage, citizens must comply by
reducing their water consumption as follows:
      1.   Phase 1: Persons with residences or commercial buildings on the even
numbered sides of the street may only water their lawns on even numbered days,
and persons with residences or commercial buildings on the odd numbered sides
of the street may only water their lawns on odd numbered days.
      2.   Phase 2: In addition to the restrictions in phase 1, no sprinkler
systems or sprinklers are allowed. Outside watering is restricted to hand held
watering only, no more than one hour per day. Commercial and industrial users
may be contacted to decrease consumption.
      3.   Noncompliance: No person shall fail to comply with the Town's
request to conserve water as described in this subsection E. Upon receiving
information that a citizen is not in compliance, the Town may file a charge in
Municipal Court for "violation of water conservation ordinance", the punishment
of which may result in a fine up to one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs,
for each day the defendant violates this subsection. (2018 Code)
9-1-5: UTILITY COLLECTION FEES:
A collection fee of thirty-five percent (35%) of utility penalties and fees
shall be imposed on delinquent utility accounts which are referred to a
collection agency for collection. (Ord. 2018-04, 11-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2018-05,
11-12-2018)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Duty To Request Garbage Service
9-2-3: Container Requirements
9-2-4: Tree Limbs, Boxes And Scrap Lumber
9-2-5: Contract For Collection And Disposal
9-2-6: Collection Requirements And Restrictions
9-2-7: Method Of Disposal
9-2-8: Fees
9-2-9: Prohibited Acts
9-2-10: Inspections
9-2-11: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowls from
any premises within the Town limits.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into lengths
not exceeding 31/2 feet), leaves, etc., from any premises.
RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden, or metal
refuselike materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semisolid
form including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes or incinerator
residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes, construction wastes,
solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes including explosives,
biomedical wastes, chemical wastes, and herbicide and pesticide wastes. The
term "solid waste" shall not include:
   A.   Scrap materials which are source separated for collection and
processing as industrial raw materials, except when contained in the waste
collected by or in behalf of a solid waste management system; or
   B.   Used motor oil, which shall not be considered to be a solid waste, but
shall be considered a deleterious substance, if the used motor oil is recycled
for energy reclamation and is ultimately destroyed when recycled.
TOWN HEALTH OFFICER: That person so designated to act by the Town Board of
Trustees, at a compensation set by the Town Board of Trustees, if any. (2014
Code § 17-201; amd. 2018 Code)
9-2-2: DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE:
The accumulation or existence of trash upon any lot, tract or parcel of land,
or along paved/unpaved streets, alleys or public easements has been declared to
constitute a nuisance. To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the
Town, it is the duty of every person using or occupying or having control of
the occupancy of any premises located on a regularly established garbage route
to notify the Town at the beginning of such occupancy, or having control of the
occupancy, and request, accept and use the garbage pick up and collection
service contracting with the Town. However, failure of any owner, rental agent
or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor in any
way impair or impede the Town from adding the address of such premises to the
proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing, by appropriate action, the regulatory measures. (2014 Code
§ 17-208; amd. 2018 Code)
9-2-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Required: It is the duty of every person, firm, or
corporation owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or any
place where garbage or rubbish accumulates to provide, and at all times to
maintain in good order and repair, on any premises, a portable container or
containers for refuse. Said container or containers shall be provided by the
collection service.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Each container shall be rodentproof and flyproof, with a tight
fitting lid which shall not be removed except when depositing or removing the
contents of the receptacle, and with handles on the sides and of sufficient
capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate and securely keep all the
garbage and rubbish that may accumulate between collections.
      2.   Each container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty two
(32) gallons, except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use.
      3.   All residential trash must be bagged where possible and placed
inside the trash container with lids closed at all times.
      4.   Only trash contained in the trash containers provided by the service
provider will be collected unless special arrangements have been made.
      5.   All commercial trash must be bagged where possible and placed inside
the trash container with lids closed at all times.
      6.   All trash containers provided for bulky waste disposal must be
covered and secured to prevent trash from blowing and littering surrounding
properties.
   C.   Maintenance Requirements:
      1.   All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of
any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
      2.   All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
      3.   In the event of vandalism and/or theft, a police report must be
filed and copies provided to the Public Works Authority prior to replacement of
the trash container.
      4.   In the event of destruction through negligence (deliberate or
inadvertent), the owner/occupant shall be responsible for replacement costs of
the trash container.
   D.   Location For Collection:
      1.   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for
collection, as designated by the Town Board of Trustees, whereby collectors can
obtain same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards
with dogs.
      2.   Residential trash containers must be placed within three feet (3')
of the roadside by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on collection day and removed as
soon as possible after collection.
      3.   The designated collection site for commercial trash containers must
be clear of obstructions to accommodate standard collection vehicles by six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on collection days.
   E.   Trash Collection:
      1.   Residential customers must have their trash containers out to the
street by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on collection day and removed as soon as
possible.
      2.   Commercial customers must have their designated collection site
cleared of obstructions to accommodate standard collection vehicles by six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on collection days.
      3.   Bulky waste disposal collection will be coordinated directly with
the service provider.
      4.   Only trash contained in the trash containers provided by the service
provider will be collection unless previous arrangements have been made with
the service provider. (2014 Code § 17-202; amd. 2018 Code)
9-2-4: TREE LIMBS, BOXES AND SCRAP LUMBER:
All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs, paper boxes, and
scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers required by
this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied or sacked in compact
bundles, weighing no more than fifty (50) pounds, and placed in a location
easily accessible to the collector. (2014 Code § 17-202)
9-2-5: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Town Authority To Contract: The Town shall have the authority to enter
into contractual obligation with those who wish to engage in the business of
refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the Town. The Town
shall be limited to contracting for such service to contract with persons
having proper equipment, meeting State Department of Health requirements, and
sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of refuse in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; and provided, further, that the method of disposal
contracted for must be in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Collection And Disposal: Every person desiring to
engage in the collection and disposal of refuse shall have the right to make
written application to the Town setting forth the name of such person, the
residence address or the address of the place of business, a description of the
equipment to be used in the collection or disposal of such refuse, the place of
disposal and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of
application, all bids may be considered at some time prior to the expiration of
the then existing contract, if any. Any person whose application has been
denied may request a hearing before the Town Board of Trustees. (2014 Code §
17-204; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Violation: It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a
contract with the Town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the Town. (2014 Code § 17-204)
9-2-6: COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The Town or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the Town upon a schedule as approved by the Town Board. It is the duty of
any person in possession or control of any premises to place the containers
required by this chapter in a location designated by the Town Health Officer.
(2014 Code § 17-203; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the Town Health Officer for
removal and disposal of same. (2014 Code § 17-203)
   C.   Carcasses of dead animals such as cows, horses and mules shall be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person responsible for
the animal(s) by the method directed by the Town Health Officer. It is unlawful
for any person to bury or cause to be buried the carcass of any dead animal in
any public or private place. (2014 Code § 17-203; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automotive frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the Town Health Officer.
   E.   Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and
other animal or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous or dangerous, shall be removed and disposed of
at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the method
directed by the Town Health Officer. (2014 Code § 17-203)
9-2-7: METHOD OF DISPOSAL:
   A.   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover. (2014 Code §
17-205)
   B.   There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless the operations
are carried out in an approved type incinerator, or approval is obtained from
the Town Health Officer. (2014 Code § 17-202)
9-2-8: FEES:
There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or
resolution. (2014 Code § 17-207)
9-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful to place, deposit, or leave any trash, debris, refuse or
garbage on the property of another or on public property, including any public
street, easement, sidewalk or other public property, except where such disposal
is expressly allowed by law.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, leave or dispose of
trash, garbage, refuse or debris in any dumpster or trash receptacle that is
located on the property of another without the express consent of the person on
whose property the dumpster or trash receptacle is located. (2014 Code § 8-112)
   C.   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the Town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the Town limits, except at such place as may be directed by the Town
Health Officer, is prohibited.
   D.   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering
contents, or junking in any alley or street within the Town limits is
prohibited. (2014 Code § 17-203)
   E.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to dispose of garbage,
refuse, rubbish or waste into any refuse container, dumpster or other
receptacle for the deposit of same belonging to or leased by another, whether
by rental agreement, lease or agreement with the Town or a public or private
trash, garbage or refuse hauling service, without the permission of the owner,
lessee or other person entitled to the possession or use thereof.
   F.   It is unlawful and an offense to use the Town's dumpsters for dumping
without an issued permit therefor. (2014 Code § 10-328)
9-2-10: INSPECTIONS:
The Town may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all
premises to see that there is compliance with the terms of this chapter. (2014
Code § 17-206)
9-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 17-209)
CHAPTER 3
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-3--1: Purpose
9-3--2: Applicability
9-3--3: Definitions
9-3--4: Sanitary Sewer A Utility
9-3--5: Monthly Charge
9-3--6: Sewer Tap Fee
9-3--7: Required And Prohibited Connections
9-3--8: Private Sewage Disposal
9-3--9: Permits Required
9-3-10: Permits For Disconnecting Sewers
9-3-11: Prohibited Discharge Standards
9-3-12: Interceptors For Grease
9-3-13: Tampering With Sewer System Prohibited; Penalty
9-3-14: Compliance Monitoring
9-3-15: General Provisions
9-3-16: Ingress
9-3-17: Inspection Required
9-3-18: Inspection Fees
9-3-19: Certificate Of Inspection
9-3-20: Excavations In Street Or Public Property
9-3-21: Damages To Public Property Must Be Repaired
9-3-22: Excavations Must Be Repaired
9-3-23: Inspection Within Forty-Eight (48) Hours
9-3-24: Unlawful To Proceed Without Permit
9-3-25: All Plumbing Must Be Accessible For Inspection
9-3-26: Connection Outside Building
9-3-27: Drains Connected With Sewer
9-3-28: Fiber Pipe Not Allowed
9-3-29: Prohibited Sewer Connections
9-3-30: Drainage Obstructions
9-3-31: Separate Drainage For Every Building
9-3-32: Sewer Installation To Be Underground
9-3-33: Apportionment Of Cost For Connection Of Property Outside Sewer District
9-3-34: Property Outside Sewer District; How Connected
9-3-35: Penalty Provisions
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Ordinance is to establish reasonable wastewater and sewer
management requirements and controls to protect and preserve the quality and
environmental values of land and water resources in the Town of Locust Grove.
(Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable to the following:
   A.   Any person, whether located with the town or outside the town that
discharges to the PWA.
   B.   Any person owning, using, constructing or maintaining any private
system or facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage or wastewater
within the town or under the town's jurisdiction.
   C.   Any other local unit of government that discharges into the PWA or that
has users or premises that discharge into the PWA. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases used in this code or title, chapter or ordinance
of the Town shall have the meaning set out below:
ACREAGE DEVELOPMENT: A lot in an un-platted area for a building site consisting
of a lot-area of forty-three thousand five hundred and sixty (43,560) square
feet (1 acre) or more of land, as certified by the Locust Grove Planning
Commission or allowed by state statute.
ACTA: (When referred to as "The Act") means the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) or
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER MEANS:
   1.   If the industrial user is a corporation, authorized representative
shall mean:
      a.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
      b.   The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporation procedures.
   2.   If the industrial user is a partnership, or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or proprietor,
respectively.
   3.   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local governmental
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
   4.   The individuals described in subsections 1, 2 and 3 above may designate
another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the
authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
authorization is submitted to the industrial pretreatment office.
BACKWATER VALVE: A valve installed on the sewage line between the structure and
the sanitary sewer main to stop waste water from back-up into the structure due
to a blockage in the sewer line.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That drain of the lowest horizontal piping of the sanitary
drainage system which receives the discharge from sanitary waste pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sanitary sewer.
BUILDING SANITARY SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public
sanitary sewer or other place of disposal.
COMPLIANCE: Shall be defined as conformity to permit conditions and code
requirements.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on increment of either
flow or time.
CONTROL AUTHORITY: The Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as administered by
the Town of Locust Grove Municipal Authority.
EPA: The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act which apply to a specific
category of industrial users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food; and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
GRAB SAMPLE: An individual sample collected over a period of time not exceeding
fifteen (15) minutes.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of non-domestic pollutants
into the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c)
or (d) of the Act.
INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR: The person designated by the town to carry
out the industrial pretreatment program, who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER: A source of indirect discharge.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
   1.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or
its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
   2.   Therefore is a cause of a violation of the POTW NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent state or local regulations): Section 405 of the Clean Water Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA); including Title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the
SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine
Protection; Research and Sanctuaries Act.
JURISDICTION: All areas within the town limits of the town or any areas outside
the town limits serviced by the sewers of the town.
LICENSED MASTER PLUMBER: Any person skilled in the installation of plumbing and
licensed as a Master Plumber by the Oklahoma Construction Industry Board
according to Oklahoma Statute 59 known as "The Plumbing License Law of 1955".
LOCUST GROVE PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY: The Public Trust Authority established the
eighth day of January, 1963 pursuant to Sec. 176 et seq. of Title 60 of the
Oklahoma Statutes for the use and benefit of the Town of Locust Grove to
finance, operate, construct and administer any public works, improvements or
facilities, including but not limited to, water, sewer, solid waste.
MAY: Is permissive.
NPDES: The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any drainage outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
other body of surface or groundwater.
NEW SOURCE: Means:
   1.   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is
or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after
the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      a.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located;
      b.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      c.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source as the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered;
   2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subparagraphs b. and c. of paragraph 1. above, but otherwise alters, replaces
or adds to existing process or production equipment;
   3.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      a.   Begun or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
         i.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment;
         ii.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing building, structures, or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
      b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
paragraph.
NONCOMPLIANCE: A situation where a person, firm or corporation as defined
herein, is exceeding limitations or failing to meet conditions of the permit.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
OSDH: The Oklahoma State Department of Health, or any state agency succeeding
to the jurisdiction of ODEQ on matters pertaining hereto.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units (S.U.).
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the U.S. in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the POTW NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation).
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, Joint Stock Company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state or local governmental
entities.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, industrial
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and the characteristics of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), toxicity , odor).
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, by process changes, or by other
means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
applicable pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS, NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS, OR STANDARDS: As used
herein, means prohibitive discharge standards, categorical pretreatment
standards and local limits.
PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: That facility owned, operated and maintained by any
person, individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or group
for the purpose of collecting and disposing of sewage within the property owned
by the person.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and household waste debris that have been shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights and is operated or maintained or controlled by the town.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director or designated representative
to oversee Water and Wastewater Operations.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works as defined by Section
212 of the Act, which is owned by a state or municipality. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes and any conveyances
which convey wastewater to a treatment plant. The term also means the municipal
entity having jurisdiction over the industrial users and responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the treatment works.
SANITARY SEWAGE, DOMESTIC SEWAGE OR SEWAGE: Wastewater which contains human
excrement or gray water (showers, dishwashing operations, etc.) normally
discharged from dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories and institutions, free from storm water and industrial
wastes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
drainage waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWERAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, transporting, treating
and disposing of sewage.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS (SIU): Means:
   1.   Any discharger subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and
   2.   Any other industrial user that:
      a.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewaters);
      b.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      c.   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW
operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or requirement. Upon a
finding that a non-categorical user has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the control authority may at any time, upon its own initiative or
in response to a petition received from a non-categorical industrial user or
POTW and with the consent of the approval authority, determine that such
industrial user is not a significant industrial user.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STORM DRAIN: (Sometimes termed "STORM SEWER") means a sewer which carries storm
and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes,
other than cooling water.
STORM WATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of water, or in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TOWN: The Town of Locust Grove, Oklahoma, or individuals representing the town.
USER: A source of indirect discharge.
VIOLATION: A situation where a person, as defined herein, is exceeding
limitations or failing to meet conditions of the permit which necessitates
immediate correction to avoid threatening the POTW or instigating rigorous
enforcement actions such as administrative orders, fines or termination of
sewer service.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
WASTE WATER SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the wastewater treatment
plant for the day to day operations.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes, and sewage from
residential dwelling, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-4: SANITARY SEWER A UTILITY:
The sanitary sewer system of the town is hereby declared to be a public
utility, a proper source of revenue for the upkeep, extension and maintenance
of said system, for financing of said system, and other lawful governmental
purposes. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-5: MONTHLY CHARGE:
The LGPWA Utility Clerk is directed to charge and collect from each customer a
monthly fee for sanitary sewer service. The LGPWA Board of Trustees regularly
review operational costs to revenue, voting on and establishing a rate
schedule. Current rate schedules are available at LGPWA Office for review upon
request. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-6: SEWER TAP FEE:
From and after the first day of April, 1962, a sewer tap fee shall be paid to
the LGPWA at the office of the Town Clerk by any person, firm or corporation
desiring to obtain sanitary sewer system services before commencement of the
construction of any connection with the sewer system. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-7: REQUIRED AND PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS:
The following shall be the connections required or prohibited:
   A.   It shall be prohibited, and a public offense, for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner, on public or
private property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste;
   B.   It shall be prohibited, and a public offense, to discharge to any
natural outlet, within the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this code;
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be prohibited, and a public
offense, to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage;
   D.   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this code, within thirty (30) days after date
of official notice to connect.
      The following shall be exempted from the requirement of connecting to the
town's sewer system:
      1.   A residence, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes where a public sewer is not located
within two hundred (200) feet of the property line as measured along a street,
alley, or right-of-way.
      Any person, firm or corporation affected by any notice, order,
determination or interpretation of the utility provisions of the Code of
Ordinances may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Locust Grove Public Works Authority Board of Trustees, provided that such
person shall file in the office of the Town Clerk a written petition requesting
such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds for such
appeal. Such petition shall be filed within ten (10) days after the day the
notice, order, determination or interpretation is issued or rendered. Upon
receipt of such a petition, the matter shall be placed upon the agenda for a
hearing at the next regularly scheduled meeting of Locust Grove Public Works
Authority Board of Trustees. The petitioner shall be given written notice
thereof. At such hearing, the town official shall present any matter or
evidence relating to the appeal pending, and thereafter the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause which such notice, order,
determination or interpretation should be modified or withdrawn. The town
official, petitioner, or any other interested party may appear in person or by
authorized representative.
   E.   In a building in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sanitary sewer, the sanitary sewage shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the building sewer or public sanitary sewer at
no expense to the town.
   F.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sanitary sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to the public sanitary sewer, and all such connections existing
at the date of passage of this code shall be removed immediately.
   G.   The connection of the building sewer into a public sanitary sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the town plumbing codes or other applicable
rules and regulations of the town. All such connections shall be made gas tight
and water tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and material must
be approved by the town inspector before installation.
   H.   The owner of any building or buildings which are connected to the
public sanitary sewer shall be required to operate and properly maintain the
building drains and building sanitary sewer in accordance with all provisions
of these regulations at no expense to the town. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-8: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of the code
(greater than two hundred (200) ft.), the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the following provisions:
   A.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the town and ODEQ
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, test
results, and other information as are deemed necessary by those departments;
   B.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the town
and ODEQ. They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered;
   C.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the town and ODEQ;
   D.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a proper and sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town;
   E.   At such time as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
by the owner to the public sewer in compliance with these regulations and any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall
be abandoned and filled with suitable material to the satisfaction of the town;
and
   F.   Private sewage disposal systems shall comply with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the town-county health officer or other
authority having jurisdiction thereof. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-9: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person, as defined in this chapter, shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public or private sanitary sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town
pursuant to the following provisions:
   A.   For a building sewer permit the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the town. When the application is complete, and
all fees associated with the permit have been paid, the town may issue the
permit;
   B.   Each application for building sewer shall be signed by the licensed
master plumber responsible for the work to be performed or the town inspector
as shown on the application. The work done under the permit shall be supervised
by the licensed master plumber and the town inspector;
   C.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
individually owned residential or commercial building and each such building
shall have its own connection to the public sewer. Multiple ownership of
building sewers is prohibited and private ownership of sewers to which the
public connects is prohibited and declared a public offense;
   D.   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a building
sanitary sewer; and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe,
joining, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the rules and
regulations of the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) and the
International Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as published by the
International Code Council (ICC) with modifications by the Oklahoma Unified
Building Code Commission (OUBCC);
   E.   The applicant for the building sewer connection permit shall notify the
plumbing inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sanitary sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the plumbing inspector. No work shall be covered until the
inspection and tests have been made and written approval given;
   F.   Test tees and plugs shall be installed, where the building sewer
connects to the wye or stub from the public sanitary sewer, in order that a
hydrostatic test may be performed by the plumber in the presence of the
plumbing inspector. In the event connection is made to a manhole, no test tee
need be installed;
   G.   Building sewers shall be connected to a public sanitary sewer not
smaller than six inches (6") and no larger than twenty-four (24) inches, and
only through wye-shaped connections;
   H.   In the event the building sewer is connected to a manhole, it shall be
inserted through the wall not more than two feet (2') above the bottom or a
satisfactory drop shall be installed. The connection shall be thoroughly
patched inside and out with appropriate cement mortar to make a water tight
connection; and
   I.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades so as to completely protect the public from all
hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and all other property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Town Clerk
or their designee. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-10: PERMITS FOR DISCONNECTING SEWERS:
   A.   Before any dwelling or other building having a connection to the sewer
system is moved or demolished, the building sanitary sewer shall be
disconnected at the adjacent property line.
   B.   The remaining portion of the building sanitary sewer leading into the
public sanitary sewer shall be sealed and made water tight.
   C.   Prior to the disconnection of any such building sanitary sewer, a
permit shall be obtained from the inspections section of the town.
      1.   After the disconnection seal is made and before the work is covered,
the plumbing inspector shall be notified.
      2.   No work shall be covered until the inspection has been made and the
work approved. Written notices of approval shall be given. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-
2021)
9-3-11: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all industrial users of
the POTW whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards
or any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirement. In
addition, the following pollutants shall not be introduced into the POTW:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the municipal
wastewater collection and POTW, including, but not limited to, waste streams
with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees
Fahrenheit, sixty (60) degrees centigrade using the test methods specified in
40 CFR 261.21. At no time, shall two (2) successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the
POTW, be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent
(10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      2.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch;
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH less than five and five tenths (5 5/10)
or more than twelve (12) S.U., or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage
to the POTW or equipment, or endangering town personnel;
      4.   Any wastewater containing pollutants including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.), released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
will cause interference with either the POTW; or any wastewater treatment or
sludge process, or which will constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
      5.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which either singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or hazard to life or to prevent entry into the sewer
for maintenance and repair;
      6.   Any substance which may cause the POTW effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludge, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed
under Section 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations
affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      7.   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed in the
treatment process, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent thereby violating the POTW NPDES permit or interferes with the
operation of the POTW such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      8.   Any wastewater having a temperature higher than sixty-five (65)
degrees centigrade, one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit, or capable of
inhibiting biological activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no
case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which
exceeds forty (40) degrees centigrade, one hundred four (104) degrees
Fahrenheit;
      9.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the industrial pretreatment coordinator in
compliance with state or federal regulations;
      10.   Any free or emulsified fats, waxes., greases or oils of animal or
vegetable origin in excess of two hundred (200) mg/L which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit (zero
degrees centigrade) and one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit sixty-five
(65) degrees centigrade and which, in the opinion of the control authority, it
appears probable that such wastes:
         a.   Can deposit grease or oil in the sewer system in such a manner as
to obstruct the sewer;
         b.   Can overload the discharger's skimming and grease handling
equipment;
         c.   Are not amendable to bacterial action and will therefor pass to
the receiving stream without being affected by normal sewage treatment process;
or
         d.   Can have deleterious effects on the treatment process due to
excessive quantities or concentrations.
      11.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-quarters
horsepower (hp) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
plumbing inspector;
      12.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference;
      13.   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause actual worker health and
safety problems;
      14.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the town;
      15.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the industrial pretreatment coordinator;
      16.   Any sludge, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      17.   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
industrial pretreatment coordinator in a wastewater discharge permit;
      18.   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant's effluent to fail a
toxicity test;
      19.   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW; or
      20.   Any discharge or discharge creating a condition for the POTW or the
receiving waters, which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any public agency, including EPA and ODEQ.
   B.   Wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in
such manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
   C.   All floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must
discharge to the industrial user's pretreatment facility before connecting with
the POTW.
   D.   Except as to categories in subsections 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 12, 13 and 14 of
subsection A of this section, the remaining categories outlined in subsection A
of this section, shall be prohibited. When the industrial pretreatment
coordinator determines that a user is contributing to the POTW, any of the
enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, the superintendent industrial pretreatment coordinator shall take
appropriate enforcement action in accordance with the enforcement response plan
hereby incorporated herein by reference thereto. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-12: INTERCEPTORS FOR GREASE:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent pretreatment coordinator, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the industrial
pretreatment coordinator and shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and
repaired regularly, as needed, by the owner at his or her expense. (Ord. 2021-
01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-13: TAMPERING WITH SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
No person, as defined in this chapter, shall maliciously, willfully, or
knowingly break, alter, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works POTW.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to a fine for each offense
and which shall not release any civil liability for damages and costs incident
to replacement of the facilities. All persons charged with violation of this
provision shall be entitled to trial by jury if required by Oklahoma Statutes.
(Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-14: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Inspection and sampling requirements are as follows:
      1.   The town will conduct at least one inspection and sampling visit
annually for each significant industrial user;
      2.   The town shall have the right to enter the facilities of any
industrial user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and any
permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user
is complying with all requirements thereof. Industrial users shall allow the
industrial pretreatment coordinator or his or her representatives' ready access
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties:
         a.   Where an industrial user has security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
industrial user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so
that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town,
state, and EPA will be permitted to enter without delay, for the purposes of
performing their [text missing]. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-15: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The inspector shall inspect and approve all drainage and sewer work installed
or to be installed in the town. He or she shall pass judgment upon all
connections to private or public property, up to and including the place where
such sewer work connects with the soil pipe. He or she shall approve such
connections when the same shall conform to the provisions of this chapter, and
no such connections shall be allowed without such approval. It is his or her
duty to cause all excavations to be properly filled and restored to safe
condition of usage. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-16: INGRESS:
Any other duly authorized employee of the town shall have the right of ingress
and egress to any private or public property for the discharge of their duties
hereunder. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-17: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
All drainage of buildings and all sewer work inside of private property lines
in the town must be done or installed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable laws; and must be inspected by the plumbing
inspector, pursuant to §§ 9-3-7G, 9-3-8B and 9-3-9B, E, and F hereinafter, and
a certificate of inspection issued therefor before the same may be used or
connected with any public sewer, and all sewers and connections in streets or
alleys of the town must be inspected by the plumbing inspector. (Ord. 2021-01,
1-11-2021)
9-3-18: INSPECTION FEES:
The inspector shall charge a fee as set by the town council on all inspections
of each sewer job. An additional fee shall be charged for each extra trip of
the inspector caused by faulty work or work not being completed or ready for
inspection when the plumbing inspector is notified to make such inspection.
(Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-19: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
Any person, firm or corporation, as defined in this chapter, making sewer
connections must report the connections to the plumbing inspector as soon as
the job is ready for inspection, and must keep the connections open for
inspection until the inspection and compliance with this and other titles and
the statutes of the state applicable thereto are complete, then a certificate
of inspection shall thereupon be issued upon the payment of the fees therefor.
(Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-20: EXCAVATIONS IN STREET OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person, as defined in this chapter, shall excavate or cause any excavation
in any street, alley, or other public place, or cut or cause to be cut any
curb, sidewalk or pavement in the town, in doing or for the purpose of doing
any work covered by this chapter, or any other work, without having a permit to
do so from the permitting department and without having deposited such sum of
money and having entered into such other undertaking as required by this or
other chapters of the code of the town, as a guarantee for the replacement and
reconstruction of such sidewalk, curb or pavement, approved by the town and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. The owner shall be responsible for operation and maintenance of
private grease, oil and sand traps. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-21: DAMAGES TO PUBLIC PROPERTY MUST BE REPAIRED:
All damages to sidewalks, curbs, sewers, paving or other property of the town
must be properly repaired or replaced by the person, firm or corporation
causing the damage, either by themselves or their agents, servants or
employees. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-22: EXCAVATIONS MUST BE REPAIRED:
Any person, as defined in the chapter, making, or causing to be made, any
excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the town, must cause
such excavation to be promptly and carefully refilled and repaired in
accordance with this or other chapters of the code of the town, and the failure
to do so shall constitute an offense under the provisions hereof. (Ord. 2021-
01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-23: INSPECTION WITHIN FORTY-EIGHT (48) HOURS:
It is the duty of the plumbing inspector in all cases when notified, to cause
inspection of all sewers in connection with sewage drainage within forty-eight
(48) hours after receipt of notice from the sewer contractor or person doing
the work in question that such work is ready for inspection. Holidays and
Sundays shall not be included in computing the forty-eight (48) hour period.
(Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-24: UNLAWFUL TO PROCEED WITHOUT PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person, as defined in this chapter, to proceed with any
work connected or to be connected with any sewer system of the town, until a
permit for such work has been obtained from the inspections department;
provided that no permit shall be required for the making of minor repairs,
unless a portion or a section of the drain line or sewer line is out, removed,
or replaced. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-25: ALL PLUMBING MUST BE ACCESSIBLE FOR INSPECTION:
In all buildings or structures hereafter erected in the town, both public and
private, and in all buildings already erected wherein any plumbing is hereafter
installed, or wherein any sewer connection pipes shall be repaired or changed
on the sewer side of the tap, the drain, soil, waste, or any other pipe or
pipes, and all traps, shall be placed in the building and exposed to view for
ready inspection and test, and shall remain so exposed until approved by the
plumbing inspector. In no case shall a trap be inaccessible at any time. (Ord.
2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-26: CONNECTION OUTSIDE BUILDING:
The connection of a sewer pipe to the sanitary sewer main shall be made with a
proper tapping saddle, of the quality acceptable identified in current Building
Code Standards. However, this connection shall not be made until the work
inside and outside of the building has been tested, inspected and approved by
the plumbing inspector. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-27: DRAINS CONNECTED WITH SEWER:
It is the duty of each person, as defined in this chapter, connecting or
causing to be connected any drain, pipe or passage with any such sewer from any
building, structure or premises, to cause such drain, pipe or passage and
connection to be at all times adequate for its purpose and of such size and
dimension as to convey and allow freely to pass whatever may properly enter the
same. Whenever the lowest sewer inlet in a building or structure is less than
four feet (4') above the top of the sewer main at the point of connection or
junction with the main, then in such event it is the duty of each person, as
defined in this chapter, connecting or causing to be connected any sewer pipe
to a sewer main to place in the sewer pipe a check valve, to prevent sewer
back-ups in the event the sewer main or sewer pipe connected to the sewer main
becomes clogged. The sewer pipe must conform to the requirements set forth in
the International Building Codes latest edition as published by the
International Code Council (ICC) with modifications by the Oklahoma Unified
Building Code Commission (OUBCC), and be free from defects and cracks and so
molded that bells will receive the ends of the pipe freely. The same shall be
laid to outlet with an even grade, with a fall of at least one-quarter inch per
foot. In laying drain pipe, space must be excavated so that the bell end will
have a solid bearing with the entire pipe. Backfilling must be packed up to the
top of the pipe. Joints must be properly made and the inside of the joints must
be made smooth. Changes of directions must be made with regulation curves, and
all connections made with wide junctions. Ends not in immediate use must be
tightly stopped to prevent dirt from entering the pipe. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-
2021)
9-3-28: FIBER PIPE NOT ALLOWED:
No fiber type pipe or fittings shall be used or permitted to be used for
connection to the town sewage disposal system. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-29: PROHIBITED SEWER CONNECTIONS:
No roof or surface water drain pipe shall be connected so as to discharge into
a sanitary sewer. No dam or other construction shall be placed in any sewer,
unless permission to do so is expressly granted in writing by the town. In case
any material discharged from any premises into any public or private sewer
cannot, in the opinion of the town be rendered harmless to the public sewer and
to the public health, such material shall be ordered excluded from any public,
private, or district sewer. The town shall, in writing, notify the person or
persons owning or occupying such premises to exclude such material from the
sewer, and a failure to comply with such notice shall constitute a violation of
this chapter. If catch basins are needed to accomplish such exclusions, the
written notice shall direct the building of such catch basins, within thirty
(30) days after serving of such notice. If after the expiration of the thirty
(30) days the order shall not be complied with, the person, firm or corporation
owning or controlling the premises shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this chapter. Where no sanitary sewers are accessible, sinks shall waste
through a grease trap and not less than thirty feet (30') of filled tile
disposal. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-30: DRAINAGE OBSTRUCTIONS:
If the drainage discharged from any home, business, or establishment shall
produce or form a deposit obstructing a sewer, the plumbing inspector shall
immediately cause the removal of the obstruction, keeping account of the cost
of such removal, and shall certify an account of the cost to the person or
persons causing the obstruction; and if such person or persons shall fail,
refuse or neglect to pay the sum to the town within five (5) days after demand
has been made, they shall be guilty of a public offense. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-
2021)
9-3-31: SEPARATE DRAINAGE FOR EVERY BUILDING:
Every building shall be separately and independently connected with a public
sewer, where there is any such sewer adjacent to such building. The entire
plumbing and drainage system of each building shall be entirely separate and
independent from that of every other building, except that where there is more
than one building on the lot, the sewer of the first building may be extended
to serve the adjoining building on permission granted by the town which
permission shall be in writing. A lot shall be any plot of ground, regardless
of size, containing one dwelling and one garage or out-building. Each and every
house occupied or to be occupied as a residence, must have a separate drain to
the connection with the sewer. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-32: SEWER INSTALLATION TO BE UNDERGROUND:
All sewers shall be put in the ground at a sufficient depth to be safe from
breaking by the ordinary use to which such property may be subjected. All sewer
pipe must be placed at least eighteen inches (18") below the top of the ground
measured from the top of such pipe, except when such depth is impossible or
impracticable for lack of fall, in which case iron pipe caulked with lead shall
be used between the building and the point where the depth above-mentioned may
be acquired. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-33: APPORTIONMENT OF COST FOR CONNECTION OF PROPERTY OUTSIDE SEWER
DISTRICT:
When public sewers have been constructed, and the cost thereof has been wholly
or partly paid out of the funds of the town, and the owner of any abutting
property makes application for a permit to tap such sewer, no permit shall be
issued to such abutting owner unless he or she shall have first paid to the
town the assessment or assessments levied against the property for the cost of
the sewer, or in the case where his or her property has not been assessed or
where any intended assessment has been held invalid or considered invalid by
the town, unless he or she pays a sum proportionate to that paid by other
similar property owners who have been assessed. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-34: PROPERTY OUTSIDE SEWER DISTRICT; HOW CONNECTED:
Any person, as defined in this chapter, owning property or in charge of
property not included in any sewer district which has been established,
desiring to connect with the sewer owned and operated by the town nearest the
property owned by such person, as defined in this chapter, shall first file
with the town a written application therefor, signed by the person, as defined
in this chapter, giving the legal description of the property and waiving any
right to protest any assessment levied against the property for the subsequent
installation of such sewer, providing the assessment is of the same proportion
as assessments upon other property affected by the installation of the sewer.
The plumbing inspector, upon receiving the application, shall make an
inspection of the property specified in the application and if found
practicable and that the connection will not be likely to overload the sewer if
connected thereto, shall grant the permit. The fee for the permit shall be as
set by the town council, the fee to be collected prior to the time any permit
is issued. (Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-3-35: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
Any person, as defined in this chapter, found to be violating any provisions of
this chapter, except §
9-3-7D, shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations:
   A.   The owner of any building drains and building sanitary sewers and any
private disposal system shall keep such facilities clean and in good repair.
Failure to comply with written notice by the town to make repairs or remove
violations including those existing at the time of passage of this chapter,
shall subject the violator to fine and punishment as provided in this code.
Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate chargeable offense;
and
   B.   Any person, as defined in this chapter, found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of this chapter, or refusing to connect with the public
sanitary sewer within the time prescribed by proper order, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine which shall not release any civil liability.
Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
2021-01, 1-11-2021)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
PENALTY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Violation; Penalty
10-1-2: Relief In Courts
10-1-1: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any business, trade or vocation for which a license,
permit, certificate or registration is required by this title, without first
having a valid license, permit, certificate or registration as required, or who
shall fail to do anything required by this title or by any Code adopted in this
title, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this title, or of any
Code adopted in this title, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided in this title shall be guilty of an
offense, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2014 Code § 5-801)
10-1-2: RELIEF IN COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title shall interfere with the right
of the Town also to apply to the proper courts of the State for mandamus, an
injunction, or other appropriate action against such person. (2014 Code § 5-
802)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Code
10-2-2: Permit Requirements
10-2-3: Violation; Penalty
10-2-4: Tiny Houses
10-2-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: A certain document, at least one copy of which is on
file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as
the International Building Code, the latest edition thereof, as published by
the International Code Council (ICC) with modifications by the Oklahoma Unified
Building Code Commission (OUBCC) is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the
Town for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this subsection, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
(2018 Code)
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections of the Town's Building Code
are hereby revised:
Insert: Offenses are punishable by fine and imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Town Code.
At all other applicable places, insert: Town of Locust Grove, Board of Trustees
and Town Code as necessary.
(2014 Code § 5-102; amd. 2018 Code)
10-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved as required in the Building Code, nor any mobile home located, relocated
or constructed, without a building permit issued by the Town Code Enforcement
Officer.
      2.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
Town to a location within the Town or from one location within the Town to
another location within the Town, a building permit is required.
      3.   A building permit shall be issued for building or construction of
any type including fences, driveways, installation of storm shelters, sheds, or
garages, among other construction or building types.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person desiring a building permit shall
submit an application to the Town Code Enforcement Officer. The applicant shall
submit with the application such reasonable information as the Code Enforcement
Officer may require to enable the officer to determine whether granting the
permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the
Town.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit; Fee And Exemptions:
      1.   If the applicant is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue the permit upon
the payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by
motion or resolution of the Town Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee
schedule shall be kept in the Office of the Town Code Enforcement Officer.
      2.   All buildings being constructed by public bodies, such as the State,
counties, school districts, municipalities, and tax exempt organizations, shall
be exempt from the payment of fees for building permits. Such bodies shall
comply with all other regulations governing the construction of any building in
the Town.
   D.   Scope Of Permit: A building permit covers the initial plumbing,
mechanical and electrical installations to be made in connection with the
building. (2014 Code § 5-106; amd. 2018 Code)
10-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 5-103)
10-2-4: TINY HOUSES:
   A.   Title: This section is hereby referenced as the Locust Grove Tiny House
Ordinance.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and terms shall for the purpose of
this section have the meanings shown herein.
DWELLING: A dwelling is any building that contains one (1) dwelling unit
intended to be used and occupied as a residence.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit that provides complete independent living
facilities such as living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
EGRESS ROOF ACCESS WINDOW: A skylight or roof window designed and installed to
satisfy the emergency escape and rescue opening requirement of paragraph E8
herein.
HABITABLE SPACE: Any space within a building that is used for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking. Spaces such as bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, and
storage spaces are not considered as habitable spaces.
LANDING PLATFORM: A landing provided as the top step of a stairway accessing a
loft.
LOFT: Within a tiny house is defined as a floor level that is located more than
thirty inches (30") above the main floor, open to the main floor on at least
one side with a ceiling height less than six feet eight inches (6' 8") and used
as a living or sleeping space.
PERMIT: Written permit issued by the Town Clerk permitting the placement,
alteration or extension of tiny homes under the provisions of this section and
regulations thereof.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
corporation.
TINY HOUSE: A dwelling to be used as permanent housing that is six hundred
forty to seven hundred fifty (640 - 750) square feet of total living space,
excluding lofts, porches, garages and other space not heated or cooled by any
means, with two hundred (200) sq. ft. of exterior or open space per house.
   C.   Permits/Applications:
      1.   Application Requirements For A Permit:
         a.   All tiny house builders must complete an application for building
a tiny house including, but not limited to, the following:
            1)   Name, address, telephone number of applicant.
            2)   Location, legal property description, block and lot where tiny
house is to be located.
            3)   Dimensions of the tiny house.
            4)   Description of material being used to build the tiny house.
Premanufactured tiny houses are not allowed within town corporate limits.
            5)   Plat or blueprints identifying connections to town services
including water, sewer and sanitation.
            6)   Photographs of the tiny house, if available.
         b.   Issuance Of Permit: In considering the application for building a
tiny house, the Town Board of Trustees or designated building inspector may
take into account the proposed location of the tiny house in relation to the
present and anticipated land use and development. After review of the
application by the Board of Trustees and determining the application and the
proposed home complies with this Ordinance and other applicable laws, codes,
regulations and ordinances, the permit shall be issued.
         c.   Denial Of Application/Hearing: Any person whose application for a
permit has been denied may, within ten (10) days of the denial, request in
writing to the Town Clerk a re-hearing by the Board of Trustees on the matter
including additional evidence at the hearing if desired.
   D.   Basic Tiny House Requirements:
      1.   The tiny house must have a driveway.
      2.   The tiny house must be located on a common access route/internal
street and have an assigned address.
      3.   The tiny house must be connected to town utilities, which is water
and sewer services. Sewer service is essential to dispose of all human waste.
No composting toilets will be permitted.
      4.   Tiny house must pass the inspection of the Town Board of Trustees,
or the building inspector, or any subsequent structural standards which may be
adopted by the town.
      5.   More than one (1) tiny house can be located on a lot.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to locate a tiny home on wheels, classified as
a recreational vehicle (RV), as a permanent dwelling within the corporate
limits of Locust Grove.
   E.   Tiny House Regulations:
      1.   The tiny house must be on a permanent foundation with at least six
(6) inches of cement footing, which is steel reinforced for load bearing walls.
      2.   Tiny house ceilings:
         a.   The minimum ceiling height for the three (3) main areas within a
tiny house:
            1)   Habitable spaces and hallways shall not have a ceiling height
less than six feet eight inches (6' 8").
            2)   Bathrooms, toilet rooms, and kitchens shall not have a ceiling
height less than six feet four inches (6' 4"). Obstructions including, but not
limited to beams, girders, ducts and lighting, shall not extend below these
minimum ceiling heights.
            3)   Lofts are permitted to be less than six feet eight inches (6'
8"). Portions of the loft with sloped ceilings that measure less than three
feet (3') from the finished floor to the finished ceiling do not contribute to
the minimum required area for a loft.
      3.   Tiny House Lofts:
         a.   A loft used as a sleeping or living space shall meet the minimum
area and dimension requirements of thirty-five (35) sq. ft. in floor area and
not less than five feet (5') in any horizontal dimension.
         b.   Portions of a loft with a sloped ceiling measuring less than
three feet (3') from the finished floor to the finished ceiling shall not be
considered as contributing to the minimum required area for the loft.
            1)   Exception: Under gable roofs with a minimum slope of six (6)
units vertical and twelve (12) units horizontal (fifty percent (50%) slope),
portions of a loft with a sloped ceiling measuring less than sixteen inches
(16") from the finished floor to the finished ceiling shall be considered as
contributing to the minimum required area for the loft.
         c.   Loft Guards:
            1)   Loft guards shall be located along the open side of lofts.
Loft guards shall be not less than thirty-six inches (36") in height or one-
half (½) of the clear height to the ceiling, whichever is less.
      4.   Stairways:
         a.   Stairways accessing lofts shall not be less than seventeen inches
(17") in clear width at or above the handrail. The width of the handrail shall
be not less than twenty inches (20").
         b.   The headroom in stairways accessing a loft shall be not less than
six feet two inches (6' 2") as measured vertically, from a sloped line
connecting the tread or landing platform nosings in the middle of their width.
         c.   Handrails and stairway guards must comply with the same code
sections used for a traditional home.
      5.   Treads And Risers:
         a.   Risers for stairs accessing a loft shall be not less than seven
inches (7") and not more than twelve inches (12") in height. Tread depth and
riser height shall be calculated in accordance with one the following formulas:
            1)   Tread depth shall be twenty inches (20") minus four-thirds (4/
3) of the riser height.
            2)   Riser height shall be fifteen inches (15") minus one-half (½)
of the tread depth.
      6.   Landing Platforms:
         a.   The top tread and riser of stairways accessing lofts shall be
constructed as a landing platform where the loft ceiling height is less than
six feet two inches (6' 2") where the stairway meets the loft.
         b.   The landing platform shall be eighteen inches (18") to twenty-two
inches (22") in depth measured from the nosing of the landing platform to the
edge of the loft, and sixteen inches (16") to eighteen inches (18") height
measured from the landing platform to the loft floor.
      7.   Ladders:
         a.   Ladders accessing lofts shall have a rung width of not less than
twelve inches (12"), and ten inches (10") spacing between rungs. Ladders shall
be capable of supporting a two hundred (200) lb. load on any rung. Rung spacing
shall be uniform within three eights inches (”).
         b.   Ladders shall be installed at seventy (70) to eighty (80) degrees
from horizontal.
      8.   Emergency Escape And Rescue Openings:
         a.   Basements and every sleeping room shall have at least one
operable emergency and rescue opening. Such opening shall open directly into a
public street, public alley, yard or court. Where basements contain one or more
sleeping rooms, emergency egress and rescue openings shall be required in each
sleeping room, but shall not be required in adjoining areas of the basement.
         b.   Where emergency escape and rescue openings are provided they
shall have a sill height of not more than forty-four inches (44") above the
floor. Where a door opening having a threshold below the adjacent ground
elevation serves as an emergency escape and rescue opening and is provided with
a bulkhead enclosure, the bulkhead enclosure shall comply with paragraph
E.8.c.7) below herein. The net clear opening dimensions required by this
section shall be obtained by the normal operation of the emergency escape and
rescue opening from the inside. Emergency escape and rescue openings with a
finished sill height below the adjacent ground elevation shall be provided with
a window well in according with paragraph E.8.c.5) below.
         c.   Exception: Basements used only to house mechanical equipment and
not exceeding total floor area of two hundred (200) sq. ft.
            1)   Minimum Opening Area: All emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have a minimum net clear opening of 5.7 sq. ft.
               a)   Exception: Grade floor openings shall have a minimum net
clear opening of five (5) sq. ft.
            2)   Minimum Opening Height: The minimum net clear opening height
shall be twenty four inches (24").
            3)   Minimum Opening Width: The minimum net clear opening width
shall be twenty inches (20").
            4)   Operational Constraints: Emergency escape and rescue openings
shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys, tools
or special knowledge.
            5)   Window Wells: Minimum horizontal area of the window well shall
be nine (9) sq. ft. with a minimum horizontal projection and width of thirty-
six inches (36"). The area of the window well shall allow the emergency escape
and rescue opening to be fully opened.
               a)   Exception: Ladder or steps required in paragraph E8.c.6)
herein shall be permitted to encroach a maximum of six inches (6") into the
required dimensions of the window well.
            6)   Ladder And Steps: Window wells with a vertical depth greater
than forty-four inches (44") shall be equipped with a permanently affixed
ladder or steps usable with the window in the fully open position. Ladders or
rungs shall have an inside width of at least twelve inches (12"), shall project
at least three inches (3") from the wall and shall be spaced not more than
eighteen inches (18") on center vertically for the full height of the window
well.
            7)   Bulkhead Enclosures: Bulkhead enclosures shall provide direct
access to the basement. The bulkhead enclosure with the door panels in the
fully open position shall provide the minimum net clear opening of 5.7 sq. ft.
            8)   Bars, Grilles, Covers And Screens: Bars, grilles, covers,
screens or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency escape and
rescue openings, bulkhead enclosures, or window wells that serve such openings,
provided the minimum net clear opening size of 5.7 ft., opening height of
twenty- four inches (24") and opening width of twenty inches (20") and such
devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a
key, tool, special knowledge or force greater than that which is required for
normal operation of the escape and rescue opening.
            9)   Emergency Escape Windows Under Decks And Porches: Emergency
escape windows are allowed to be installed under decks and porches provided the
location of the deck allows the emergency escape window to be fully opened and
provides a path not less than thirty-six inches (36") in height to a yard or
court.
   F.   Penalty Provision: Any person violating of this section, or any portion
thereof, shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day that such violation
continues. Each day may be considered a separate offense and punishable
accordingly.
   G.   Adoption Of Amendment:
Title 10, Chapter 2, of the Locust Grove Building Code is hereby amended to
establish development standards and regulations for tiny houses on a permanent
foundation that is one hundred fifty to seven hundred (150 - 700) square feet
of total living space, used as a permanent residence within the corporate
limits of the Town of Locust Grove, and providing for issuance of permits and
collection of fees for same. (Ord. 2022-03, 10-10-2022)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Plumbing Code
10-3-2: Plumbing Contractors
10-3-3: Permits And Inspections
10-3-4: Violation; Penalty
10-3-1: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: A certain document, at least one copy of which is on
file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as
the International Plumbing Code, the latest version thereof, and any revisions
or amendments thereto, as published by the International Code Council (ICC)
with modifications by the Oklahoma Unified Building Code Commission (OUBCC), is
hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the Town for the control of buildings
and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Plumbing Code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
subsection, with additions, insertions and changes, if any, prescribed in
subsection B of this section. (2014 Code § 5-201; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections are hereby revised as
follows:
Insert: Applicable fees are as set by the Town by motion or resolution.
Insert: Offenses are punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Town Code.
(2014 Code § 5-202; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-2: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Definitions: The phrases and words "journeyman plumber", "plumber's
apprentice", "plumbing contractor", and "plumbing", when used in the
ordinances, regulations and other official acts and communications of the Town,
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1001 et seq., the State Plumbing License Law, unless the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   B.   Registration Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a
master plumber), or of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber's apprentice in
the Town unless he is registered with the Town and has a current and valid
certificate of registration issued by the Town.
   C.   Qualifications For Certificate: Only persons who have current and valid
licenses as plumbing contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the State
Construction Industries Board, as provided by law, may register as such with
the Town. Only persons who have a current and valid certificate of registration
as plumber's apprentices issued by the state Construction Industries Board, as
provided by law, may register as such with the Town. Any license issued to a
firm is not transferable. If a person ceases to be associated with a licensed
firm, the firm is required to secure a new license in the name of the
qualified, licensed entity or person.
   D.   Application For Certificate: Applicants for certificates of
registration, after complying with the laws of the State and with this section,
and after payment of the fee set by the Town, shall be registered by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   E.   Required Fees: The fees for registration shall be set by the Town Board
of Trustees by motion or resolution.
   F.   Expiration Of Registration; Renewals:
      1.   The registration shall expire annually, but may be renewed from year
to year. Plumbing contractors and journeymen plumbers desiring to renew their
registration shall furnish the same evidence of compliance with State licensing
laws and bond as set forth by the State.
      2.   All plumbing registrations not renewed within ninety (90) days after
the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new application for
registration must be made and the fee for new registration paid.
   G.   Revocation Of Registration: The Town Board of Trustees, upon at least
ten (10) days' notice and adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke
the Town registration of any plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for
violating any provisions of the ordinances or regulations of the Town relating
to the installation of plumbing or for any other cause specified in the State
Plumbing License Law. (2014 Code § 5-203; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-3: PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a
permit from the Code Enforcement Officer.
      2.   Application For Permit: A person desiring a plumbing permit shall
submit an application to the Code Enforcement Officer. The applicant shall
submit with the application such reasonable information as the Code Enforcement
Officer may require to enable the applicant to determine whether granting the
permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the
Town.
      3.   Permit Fees: The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by
resolution or motion of the Town Board of Trustees. Such payment will be made
upon application.
   B.   Inspections: Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set
forth in this Code. (2014 Code § 5-204; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 5-205)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Electrical Code Adopted
10-4-2: Electrical Contractors
10-4-3: Inspection Fee
10-4-4: Utility Connection Requirements
10-4-5: Violation; Penalty
10-4-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The National Electrical Code, the latest edition thereof, as approved by the
American Standards Association, for the installation of electrical wiring,
devices and equipment, is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for the
installation of all electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the Town,
except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. The National
Electrical Code is hereby made a part of this section as fully and to the same
extent as if copied herein in full; provided, that the present or current issue
of the National Electrical Code and any subsequent amendments thereto shall be
considered as the National Electrical Code as that term is used herein. A copy
of the Code is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for public use
and inspection. (2014 Code § 5-301; amd. 2018 Code)
10-4-2: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Registration Requirements:
      1.   Town Registration And State License Required:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration, and any renewal, to be
secured from the Town.
         b.   No person may be registered with the Town as a contractor,
journeyman or apprentice unless he possesses a valid and current State license
issued by the State and pays the registration fee in such sum as set by the
Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution.
      2.   Fees: The initial fee for a registration certificate, and any
renewal, to be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, shall be as set by the Board
of Trustees.
      3.   Bond Requirements: Every person receiving a certificate as an
electrical contractor shall file with the Town Clerk- Treasurer a bond in such
sum as set by the Town Board of Trustees, executed with a surety company
authorized to do business in the State. The bond shall be conditioned that the
principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances, and
equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and other regulations
of the Town relating to electrical installations and in a workmanlike manner;
that the principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom the work
was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship or
inferior or nonstandard material; and that the Town may be firmly indemnified
and held harmless from any and all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the
performance of his work as an electrical contractor or apprentice electrician,
as the case may be.
      4.   Nontransferability Of Certificate: The certificate is not
transferable to any other individual or company.
      5.   Renewals: A registration certificate must be renewed within ninety
(90) days following expiration of the certificate. After the expiration, an
application for a new certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid
again.
      6.   Exemptions: For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems
not using over twelve (12) volts, no registration or bond will be required. The
installation of same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances
of the Town.
      7.   Revocation Of Certificate: After adequate opportunity for a hearing,
the Town Board may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor, an
apprentice electrician, or a journeyman electrician. (2014 Code § 5-302)
   B.   Defective Workmanship And Materials:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
electrical contracting for the installation of wiring and apparatus for
electric light, heat or power in the Town who fails to correct promptly any
defects in any work done by him contrary to this Code, after having been
notified by the electrical inspector, shall not be issued any further permits
until such defects have been corrected; and in any case in which any person
shall continue to or persistently violate this Code in regards to electrical
work, or the orders of the electrical inspector in relation to same, the
registration and permit of such person shall be suspended or revoked. (2014
Code § 5-305)
      2.   This Code shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the
responsibility of any person, partnership or corporation owning or operating or
installing electric wire, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for
the damage to property or persons injured by any defect therein. Nor shall the
Town or any agent thereof be deemed to assume such liability by reason of the
inspection authorized herein or the certificate of inspection issued by the
electrical inspector. (2014 Code § 5-306)
10-4-3: INSPECTION FEE:
The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the Town when electrical installations are
inspected by the electrical inspector. (2014 Code § 5-303)
10-4-4: UTILITY CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any electric light and power company or any supplier
of electricity for light, heat or power to make any electrical connection to
any building for electric wiring or apparatus until a certificate stating that
the electric work has been approved or written permit authorizing connection
has been issued by the electrical inspector. All firms, corporations or
individuals, whether operating under a regular franchise granted by the Town or
not, shall, upon written notice by the electrical inspector, disconnect from
any such circuit, including main service wires, branch feeder wires or
distribution, as designated by the notice, and shall not reconnect to the
installation except upon written notice from the electrical inspector. (2014
Code § 5-304)
10-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 5-307)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Mechanical Code
10-5-2: Mechanical Contractors
10-5-3: Violation; Penalty
10-5-1: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The BOCA National Mechanical Code, the latest version
thereof, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the Town for
the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Mechanical
Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this subsection, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section. At least one
copy of the Code is kept on file in the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office. (2014
Code § 5-701)
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections of the Town Mechanical Code
are hereby revised as follows:
Insert: Town of Locust Grove.
Insert: Applicable fees shall be set by the Town by motion or resolution.
Insert: Offenses are punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Town Code.
(2014 Code § 5-702)
10-5-2: MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   State License And Town Registration Required:
      1.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or
occupation of a mechanical contractor or a mechanical journeyman unless he has
a current and valid license issued by the State. Mechanical apprentices require
State registration. (2014 Code § 5-703; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or
occupation of a mechanical contractor, a mechanical journeyman or a mechanic's
apprentice unless he has first registered as such with the Town and paid the
annual fee set by the Town Board by motion or resolution.
   B.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
mechanical contractors shall meet the requirements established by State law.
(2014 Code § 5-703)
10-5-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code § 5-704)
CHAPTER 6
GAS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Gas Piping
10-6-2: Liquefied Petroleum Gas Regulations Adopted
10-6-3: Violation; Penalty
10-6-1: GAS PIPING:
   A.   Code Adopted: The National Fuel Gas Code, as issued by the National
Fire Protection Association, the latest edition thereof, is hereby adopted,
incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this subsection,
with the insertions, deletions and changes if any prescribed herein. State
licensed plumbing and mechanical contractors and persons authorized to install
gas piping under State licensing laws are authorized to do so under this Code.
A copy of the Code is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
public use and inspection. (2014 Code § 5-401; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Gas Piping Contractors:
      1.   State License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of installing gas piping or gas appliances without first obtaining
any license required by the State.
      2.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance shall be
provided by the licensee in such amounts as required by the State. (2014 Code §
5-402)
10-6-2: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The National Fire Protection Association pamphlet no. 58 entitled "Storage and
Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases", also adopted by the Oklahoma Liquefied
Petroleum Gas Board, is adopted and incorporated herein by reference and shall
have full force and effect within the Town. A copy of the pamphlet is on file
in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for public use and inspection.
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
INSPECTOR: The code enforcement officer, the building inspector, or the person
designated by the Board of Trustees to enforce this section.
LP-GAS SAFETY RULES: The rules adopted by the Oklahoma Liquified Petroleum and
Gas Board pursuant to 52 O.S. 420 et seq including any National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) or other documents adopted by reference, as amended from
time to time.
NUISANCE PROPANE TANK: A propane tank that:
      1.   Has been determined by the inspector to be a danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare, not maintained in good working order or according
to the LP-gas safety rules, or not utilized safely or according to the LP-gas
safety rules or manufacturer's instructions;
      2.   Notice has been given of said determination pursuant to paragraph E
herein; and
      3.   The propane tank has not been remedied pursuant to the terms of the
notice within the time prescribed in paragraph E herein.
PROPANE TANK: An external, above-ground tank that stores an alternate fuel
source to natural gas used primarily for in-home or commercial cooking or
heating homes or businesses.
   B.   Propane Tanks Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person to use a
propane tank or a nuisance propane tank within the town limits or possess a
propane tank or nuisance propane tank for the purpose of use within the town
limits, except as provided herein.
   C.   Exceptions: A person may use a propane tank within the town limits if:
      1.   The propane tank was in active use within the town limits as of the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived and remains
on the property where the propane tank was located as of the effective date of
the ordinance from which this article is derived; or
      2.   A waiver has been granted as provided in the ordinance from which
this article is derived for use of the propane tank on the property specified
in the waiver, provided that the propane tank is located on the property
specified in the waiver and in active use.
   D.   Registration; Fee:
      1.   Any person possessing or using a propane tank within the town limits
under one of the exceptions in paragraph C above shall register the propane
tank with the town.
      2.   A person who was actively using a propane tank within the town
limits as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived shall register the propane tank within six (6) months of the effective
date of the ordinance from which this article is derived and shall not be
required to pay registration fee during the six (6) month period.
      3.   A person who has been granted a waiver shall register the propane
tank within ten (10) business days of the waiver being granted.
      4.   A person who purchases a property upon which a propane tank is
located and actively uses the propane tank shall register as the new owner of
the propane tank within one (1) month of purchasing the property.
      5.   A person required to register under this section shall provide the
town with the address where the propane tank is located, the name of the person
who owns or is leasing the propane tank, and the name, address, and telephone
number of the company, if any, leasing the propane tank.
      6.   The registration fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00). If a person does
not register within the time prescribed herein, the person shall incur a late
fee of five dollars ($5.00).
   E.   Nuisance Propane Tanks:
      1.   A propane tank that constitutes a danger to the public health,
safety, or welfare, is not being maintained in good working order or according
to the LP-gas safety rules or is not being utilized safely or according to the
LP-gas safety rules or the manufacturer's instructions, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
      2.   If the inspector determines that a propane tank is a nuisance, the
inspector may issue written notice requiring that the person who owns,
possesses, keeps or uses the propane tank meet certain remedial requirements to
correct the danger posed by the propane tank. The notice shall be given to the
person who owns, possesses, keeps or uses the propane tank and to the company,
if any, leasing the propane tank by personal service, by posting notice at the
property where the propane tank is located, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. The person shall have seven (7) days to comply with the
notice. The person may file a written appeal to this notice clearly stating the
reasons for the appeal, to the Board of Trustees within seven (7) days of
service. The Trustees shall conduct a hearing to determine the issues stated in
the written appeal. The decision of the Trustees shall be rendered within
thirty (30) days of the hearing.
      3.   If the inspector determines that the propane tank constitutes an
immediate danger to the public health, safety or welfare, the inspector shall
take such action as is reasonable and necessary to protect the public health
and safety, including immediately declaring the propane tank to be a nuisance
tank and/or seizing the propane tank.
      4.   If the person fails to comply with the notice or appeals the
decision within seven (7) days, the person shall deliver the propane tank to
the public works department located at 6939 S 440 Rd, Locust Grove, Oklahoma.
If the person fails to deliver the propane tank to the public works department,
the inspector may seize the propane tank.
      5.   Nothing herein precludes the town from seeking other remedies if a
person fails to comply with the remedial requirements stated or the decisions
rendered in the appeal process.
   F.   Waiver; Fee:
      1.   A person who wishes to own, possess, keep or use a propane tank
within the town limits may apply for a waiver from the town clerk.
      2.   A waiver may be granted only if gas service is unavailable to the
property for which the person is requesting the waiver. For the purposes of
this article, gas services shall be deemed unavailable if the nearest gas main
is located more than two hundred (200) feet from the nearest property line or
boundary of the property for which the waiver is being requested.
      3.   Any person who is denied a waiver may file a written appeal clearly
stating the reasons for the appeal to the Board of Trustees within ten (10)
days of the denial of the waiver. The Trustees shall conduct a hearing to
determine the issues stated in the written appeal. A decision of the Trustees
shall be rendered within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the appeal.
      4.   A person who is granted a waiver from the Board of Trustees shall
maintain the propane tank in good working condition or according to the LP-gas
safety rules, utilize the propane tank safely or according to the LP-gas safety
rules of the manufacturer's instructions, and ensure that the propane tank is
not a danger to the public health, safety or welfare.
      5.   The fee for applying for a waiver shall be ten dollars ($10.00). A
person granted a waiver shall be required to register the propane tank pursuant
to paragraph D above.
   G.   Location Of Propane Tank:
      1.   Propane tanks installed after the effective date of the ordinance
from which this article is derived shall not be placed within ten (10) feet for
one hundred twenty-five to five hundred (125 - 500) gallon tanks, and at least
twenty- five (25) feet for more than five hundred (500) gallons, of any
boundary or property line of the lot, tract or parcel of land on which the
propane tank is located.
      2.   Propane tanks that are relocated within the boundaries of a lot,
tract, or parcel of land shall be located in accordance with tank size as
stated this section.
   H.   Penalty For Violation Of This Section: The penalty for violation of
this section shall be in accordance with the penalty provision contained in
Section
1-4-1 of the Code of Ordinances. Each continuing day's violation under this
section shall constitute a separate offense. (2014 Code § 5-501; amd. 2018
Code; Ord. 2024-01, 2-19-2024)
10-6-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2014 Code §§ 5-403, 5-502)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Adoption Of Codes
10-7-2: Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids, Liquefied Petroleum Gas And
Explosives
10-7-3: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies; Permits
10-7-4: Authority To Modify Regulations
10-7-5: Appeals
10-7-6: Penalties
10-7-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
Code known as Fire Prevention Code recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association, and that certain Code known as the Life Safety Code recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the latest
editions thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this chapter. At least one copy of
the Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code are on file in the Office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
from the effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the limits of the Town. (2014 Code § 13-101)
10-7-2: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS AND
EXPLOSIVES:
The Town limits are the limits in the Fire Prevention Code in which storage of
flammable liquids in aboveground tanks, new bulk plants for flammable liquids,
bulk storage of LPG and storage of explosives and blasting agents are
prohibited. (2014 Code § 13-102)
10-7-3: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS:
The Town Board of Trustees may act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those
now enumerated in the Codes adopted herein. The Fire Chief shall post such list
in a conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons. (2014 Code § 13-103)
10-7-4: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY REGULATIONS:
The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power to modify any of the provisions
of the Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
Codes; provided, that the spirit of the Codes shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification,
when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Fire Chief and Board of
Trustees thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the Board of Trustees,
and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (2014 Code § 13-102)
10-7-5: APPEALS:
Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Codes adopted herein do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the Codes have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Town Board
of Trustees within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(2014 Code § 13- 104)
10-7-6: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of the Codes
hereby adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
Town Board of Trustees or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application
of the penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions. (2014 Code § 13-105)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Adoption Of Code
10-8-2: Appeals
10-8-3: Conflicting Provisions
10-8-4: Violation; Penalties
10-8-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, is adopted by the Town for the purpose of
establishing minimum standards for existing residential and nonresidential
structures or premises that protect the health, safety and welfare of occupants
and the public. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and
terms of the International Property Maintenance Code, as well as any appendices
referenced, are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this Code. At least one copy of the Code is to
be kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016)
10-8-2: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any administrative notice,
order or interpretation of the International Property Maintenance Code issued
by the Code Enforcement Officer or other authorized employee or agent of the
Town shall have the right to appeal such in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
within twenty (20) days from the issuance date of the notice, order or
interpretation. Any appeal shall include a statement in writing citing the
specific nature or cause for the appeal. Upon receipt of such appeal, the
matter shall be scheduled for public hearing before the Town Board of
Adjustment at a regular or special meeting thereof. An agenda item for such
appeal shall serve as public notice of such matter, and the appellant shall
receive at least ten (10) days' written notice by mail of the hearing date.
(Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   An appeal hearing shall provide the appellant and any other interested
parties an opportunity to present testimony and evidence as to why the notice,
order or interpretation shall or shall not be implemented or otherwise
enforced. The Board of Adjustment may uphold, modify or withdraw any notice,
order or interpretation, and such determination shall be binding upon all
parties with further relief, if any, to be sought through the District Court.
(Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016)
   C.   Appeal of any notice, order or interpretation shall serve to stay
implementation or enforcement of such unless the Code Enforcement Officer or
other authorized employee or agent of the Town shall affirm to the Board of
Adjustment Chair that any stay shall cause imminent peril to life or safety of
persons, or imminent damage or destruction to the structure or premises or to
other structures or premises so affected. (Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016; amd. 2018
Code)
10-8-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of the International Property Maintenance Code
shall be in conflict with any Building, Trade, Zoning, Fire Safety, or Health
Code, ordinance or regulation of the Town, the more restrictive Code, ordinance
or regulation shall govern. (Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016)
10-8-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any individual, firm or corporation found to be in violation of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the Town. Each day that
any violation of this chapter is committed shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the Town from pursuing civil
remedies in a court of competent jurisdiction to correct violations, or
otherwise prohibit or restrict matters that are within the jurisdiction of the
International Property Maintenance Code. (Ord. 2016-01, 3-14-2016)
CHAPTER 9
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Definition
10-9-3: Application To Place Or Construct A Sign; Review
10-9-4: Authority To Impose Restrictions
10-9-5: Noncompliant New Signs
10-9-6: Penalty
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to control the size, number, and placement of
signs of a permanent nature within the Town. (2014 Code § 14-101)
10-9-2: DEFINITION:
A sign that is intended to be in location for more than two (2) weeks, either
individually or through replacement is determined to be of "a permanent
nature". (2014 Code § 14-101)
10-9-3: APPLICATION TO PLACE OR CONSTRUCT A SIGN; REVIEW:
   A.   Prior to the construction, placement or erection of any sign intended
for a permanent purpose within the Town, a proper application must be made to
the Town Board of Trustees requesting approval to construct a sign or place a
sign at a certain location within the Town limits, setting forth the size of
the sign, construction materials for the sign, proposed location of the sign,
the legal authority (being a lease or other such legal document) authorizing
the use of the location in question, and the purpose for which the sign is
intended. (2014 Code § 14-101; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   The Town Board of Trustees shall consider the need of the applicant for
the sign in question as well as its purpose, the location involved, and its
effect on the area in question. The appearance of the sign and effect on the
area will be considered. (2014 Code § 14-101)
10-9-4: AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS:
The Town Board of Trustees may restrict the size, design, location, or
appearance of the sign in question. The Board of Trustees further may set and
determine appropriate permit fees for signs within the community that are
applied for after the effective date hereof. If they determine that such permit
requirement is in the best interest of the Town, then a fee may be charged on
an annual basis. (2014 Code § 14-101; amd. 2018 Code)
10-9-5: NONCOMPLIANT NEW SIGNS:
Any sign that is erected, placed or displayed in violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be removed immediately by the Town, with the costs of said
removal assessed against the owner of the sign in question. (2014 Code § 14-
101; amd. 2018 Code)
10-9-6: PENALTY:
The penalty for any violation of this chapter shall be in conformity with
section
1-4-1 of this Code, being the general penalty provision for same. (2014 Code §
14-101)
CHAPTER 10
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Building Movers
10-10-2: Permit Requirements
10-10-3: Requirements For Moved Buildings
10-10-4: Moving During Summer Months
10-10-5: Procedures For Moving Buildings
10-10-6: Special Circumstances
10-10-1: BUILDING MOVERS:
   A.   License Required: Every person who shall engage in the business of
moving buildings and structures within the Town shall obtain a license therefor
from the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and no such license shall be granted until the
party applying therefor shall have given the bond required by subsection C of
this section.
   B.   License Fee; Term: Any person engaging in the occupation of house
moving shall pay a license fee as established by resolution of the Town Board
of Trustees, which license shall expire on July 1 of each year.
   C.   Bond Requirements: The bond to be given by a licensed house mover shall
be executed to the Town in the penal sum of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) with a surety company authorized to do business in the State of
Oklahoma as surety thereon, which bond shall be for the benefit of the Town and
any private person or corporation sustaining damages under the conditions
thereof. Any such private person or corporation shall be entitled to sue
thereon, in his or her or its own name. The bond shall be conditioned, among
other things, that if the license shall be granted, the licensee will in all
respects comply with this chapter and with the ordinances of the Town relating
to the use or obstruction of the streets, highways, and other public ways and
shall protect the Town from all liability which may arise or be occasioned,
either directly or indirectly, from the moving of any building or structure of
the licensee, his or her agents, servants, employees, workers, contractors, or
subcontractors, while engaged in any work in connection with the moving of any
building or structure, including any loss or damages which may be sustained
because of the stoppage of any business or industry located along the route
over which the building or structure shall be moved, caused or occasioned by
the operation of moving such building or structure. (2018 Code)
10-10-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or structure now or hereafter erected
within the corporate limits of the Town shall be removed or relocated without a
permit for such work issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, upon written
application made therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: No application for a permit to move any
building or structure on, over, along, or across any street or highway shall be
granted to any person other than a licensed house mover, who shall file with
the Town Clerk- Treasurer a written application therefor, definitely stating in
such application:
      1.   Type and kind of building to be moved.
      2.   The original cost and present value of such building.
      3.   The extreme dimensions of the length, height, and width of the
building.
      4.   Its present location and proposed new location by lot, block,
subdivision, and street numbers.
      5.   The approximate time such building will be upon the streets, and the
contemplated route that will be taken from the present to the new location.
      6.   That the moving of the building does not violate the Fire Department
requirements, or any other requirements of the Town.
      7.   That, prior to beginning moving the structure, the applicant will
inform the Town Police Department.
   C.   Action On Application; Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: When such
application is filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, it shall be his or her duty
to immediately notify the Fire Chief and the Town Board. Upon receiving such
notification, the Town Board, or its duly appointed representative, shall
examine the proposed moving route and make such changes therein as the Board
shall deem necessary, or designate an entire new route, and attach to the
application for such permit its certificate of approval of such designated
moving route. The Code Enforcement Officer shall then make the inspection
required relating to his or her department, and if it is found by him or her
that the building or structure can be moved and relocated in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter, it shall then be the duty of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to issue a permit for such work; otherwise, such permit shall be
refused.
   D.   Permit Fees: Before any permit to move any building or structure is
granted under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant for such permit
shall pay a fee to the Town as established by motion or resolution of the Town
Board. (2018 Code)
10-10-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Height: No building or structure of a height more than thirty feet
(30') shall be moved on, over, along, or across any street or highway, unless
such building or structure shall be cut to such height before the operation of
moving the same is begun.
   B.   Area: It is unlawful to move on, over, or across any street or highway
any building or structure having an area of one thousand (1,000) square feet or
more, unless the Town Board of Trustees shall, by a majority vote, approve the
application for a permit therefor. (2018 Code)
10-10-4: MOVING DURING SUMMER MONTHS:
During the months of June, July, August, and September of any year, no building
or structure having an area of more than five hundred (500) square feet, unless
approved by the Town Board of Trustees, shall be moved on, over, along, or
across any street or highway paved with asphalt or oil. All buildings shall be
moved on pneumatic tires only. This regulation shall not apply to mobile homes.
(2018 Code)
10-10-5: PROCEDURES FOR MOVING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Duration Of Move:
      1.   The work of moving any building or structure on, over, along or
across any street or highway shall begin within five (5) days after the
issuance of a permit therefor and once begun, shall be prosecuted diligently
and continuously day and night, Sundays and holidays, so as not to allow the
building or structure to come to a standstill until the same is relocated on
its new site; provided, that the Town Board, in an emergency, may grant a
temporary suspension of the work for a period of not longer than twelve (12)
hours at any time; and provided further, that no permit shall be granted to
leave any building or structure standing at night in any street intersection.
      2.   When any building or structure is so permitted to remain at a
standstill in any street or highway at night, the house mover shall notify the
Fire Chief of the location of the same and shall post at each end and on each
side of such building or structure two (2) or more lights with red glass globes
in a secure and conspicuous position, and shall place barricades at each end of
such building at a distance of fifty feet (50') therefrom with lights thereon
as required herein on the building.
   B.   Safety And Protection Requirements:
      1.   Lights:
         a.   Every building which occupies any portion of property after
sundown shall have sufficient lights continuously burning between sunset and
sunrise for the protection of the public.
         b.   There shall be a minimum of five (5) red lights placed on each
street side of the building; such red lights shall be attached to the building
in such a fashion as to indicate extreme width, height, and size.
      2.   Flares: There shall be placed, in addition to the red lights on the
building, flares at regular intervals for a distance of two hundred feet (200')
up the street on each side of the building.
      3.   Flagmen/Watchmen:
         a.   When a street is blockaded at night by a building, the same shall
be protected by flares or red lights at each intersection of the block occupied
by the building, or when, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer,
flagmen are necessary to divert or caution traffic, the owner or person moving
such building shall employ, at his or her expense, two (2) flagmen, one at each
street intersection beyond the building; such flagmen shall remain at these
intersections diverting or cautioning traffic from sunset to sunrise; provided,
that red flags shall be used during the day.
         b.   During any moving operation, the house mover shall keep a
watchman at all times about the building, whether the same be moving or
standing, for the purpose of keeping any posted lights burning at night and
warning the traffic with flags during the day.
      4.   Protection Of Pavement: When necessary to protect pavement or
sidewalks, planks of sufficient size and thickness, to prevent injury to such
pavement or sidewalks, shall be laid for the wheels of the moving trucks to
travel on.
      5.   Additional Requirements: The Town Board shall have the power to
require the use of other precautionary measures than those specifically
mentioned in this subsection when necessary or proper to protect life, limb, or
property.
   C.   Notice To Utility Companies And Emergency Services:
      1.   Whenever, for the purpose of facilitating the moving of any
building, it is necessary to raise or cut any electric, telephone, or telegraph
wire or cable, it shall be the duty of the house mover having charge of the
moving of such building to give the person or corporation owning or operating
the poles, wires, or cables at least twelve (12) hours' notice of the time and
place, when and where the removal of such poles or the raising or cutting of
such wires or cables will be necessary.
      2.   In case there is interference with the poles or wires of the fire or
police telephone or alarm systems, such notice shall be served upon the Fire
Chief.
      3.   After the service of notice as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of
the person or corporation owning or operating the poles, wires, or cables, or
the duty of Fire Chief, as the case may be, to furnish competent workers or
linemen to remove such poles or raise or cut such wires or cables. The cost of
such service shall be arranged for and paid by the house mover. No house mover
shall raise, cut, or move any such poles, wires, or cable unless the person or
authorities owning or having control of the same fail or refuse so to do after
notice as aforesaid, and then only competent workers or linemen shall be
employed in such work under the supervision of the Fire Chief, and the same
shall be done in a careful and workmanlike manner, and the poles, wires, and
cables promptly replaced and damages thereto promptly repaired at the expense
of such house mover.
   D.   Trees: No tree on any street shall be injured or removed, nor the
branches of any tree cut or trimmed, in order to facilitate the moving of any
building, except with the consent and under the supervision of the Town Board.
   E.   Obstruction Of Railroad Tracks: If it is necessary to move any
buildings upon or across any railway tracks, the same shall be done in such a
manner and at such time as not to interfere with the operation of cars or
trains thereon. (2018 Code)
10-10-6: SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Special Moving Permit: No individual, partnership, or corporation,
other than a licensed building mover, shall be permitted to move a building in
the Town unless granted a special moving permit by the Town Board of Trustees.
   B.   Contractor Sheds And Offices: A general contractor may be granted a
permit, upon payment of a fee, for moving a job material shed or office from
one job location to another with his or her own truck or equipment, provided
the building shall not be larger than eight feet (8') wide, fourteen feet (14')
long, and eight feet (8') high from the floor to the highest point of the roof
or, when mounted on a truck, shall not be more than twelve feet six inches
(12'6") from the roadway to the highest point on the roof. And provided
further, that the contractor shall furnish a bond conditioned the same as the
bond described in subsection
10-10-1C of this chapter. No contractor's temporary office or material shed
larger in any dimension than specified in this subsection shall be moved,
except in compliance with all the requirements of the Building Code applicable
to house moving.
   C.   Historical Monuments:
      1.   The provisions of this chapter shall not prevent the movement of
existing structures within the Town, or the movement of existing structures
into the Town, where such structures have been identified as historical
monuments.
      2.   No building or structure shall hereafter be designated as a
historical monument without an official designation issued by the Town Board,
upon written application made therefor.
      3.   No application for a designation of a structure as a historical
monument shall be granted to any person unless such application states the
following:
         a.   Type and kind of structure to be moved.
         b.   The present value of such structure.
         c.   The extreme dimensions of the length, height and width of the
structure.
         d.   Its present location and proposed new location by lot, block,
subdivision, or other legal description, and street numbers where applicable.
         e.   The approximate time such structure will be upon the streets, and
the contemplated route that will be taken from present to new location.
         f.   A short statement regarding the historical significance of the
structure to the Town.
         g.   That the moving of this building does not violate the Fire
Department requirements or any other requirements of the ordinances of the
Town.
      4.   The Town Board shall determine whether the structure shall be
designated as a historical monument and shall issue a historical monument
moving permit based upon the historical significance to the Town.
      5.   No building or structure shall be moved to a new location until
there has been compliance with all provisions of this chapter and structural
requirements under other ordinances of the Town for the use for which it is
contemplated at the new location. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 11
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-11--1: Statutory Authorization
10-11--2: Findings Of Fact
10-11--3: Statement Of Purpose
10-11--4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-11--5: Definitions
General Provisions
10-11-10: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
10-11-11: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-11-12: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-11-13: Compliance
10-11-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-11-15: Interpretation
10-11-16: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
Administration And Enforcement
10-11-20: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-11-21: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-11-22: Application Fee And Expert’s Fee
10-11-23: Permit Procedures
10-11-24: Variance Procedures
Flood Mitigation Advisory Board
10-11-30: Creation Of The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board
Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-11-35: General Standards
10-11-36: Specific Standards
10-11-37: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
10-11-38: Penalties For Non-Compliance
10-11-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in Oklahoma Floodplain Management
Act, Sections 1601 through 1620.1 of Title 82 of the Oklahoma Statutes,
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, Town of Locust Grove, Oklahoma,
does ordain as follows. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Locust Grove are subject to
periodic inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood proofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood-
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage.
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter it's most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include but are not
limited to garages and storage sheds.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluviai fan of similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principle structure.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the Town of
Locust Grove subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BFE: Base flood elevation.
CERTIFICATE OF ELEVATION: It is prepared by a state-licensed surveyor,
architect or engineer to provide elevation information necessary to ensure
compliance with community floodplain management ordinances; certify building
elevations if the building is located in a Special Flood Hazard Area in order
to; determine the proper flood insurance premium rate for the building; and or
support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) to remove a building
from the Special Flood Hazard Area.
CFR: Code of Federal Regulations.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the Town of Locust Grove Floodplain
Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A non-basement building built, in the case of a building in
Zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMS effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures."   
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured home is to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, and final site
grading and the pouring of concrete pad) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations.
FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FIRM: Flood Insurance Rate Map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M
and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of the Town of Locust Grove on
which FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk
premium zones applicable to the Town of Locust Grove.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA (see flood
elevation study) for the Town of Locust Grove which contains flood profiles,
water surface elevation of the base flood, as well as the floodway width,
section area and mean velocity.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the
Town Council of the Town of Locust Grove to administer and implement laws,
ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of flood).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within Town of Locust Grove subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. These specialized flood modifying works
are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards with
approval from appropriate federal and state agencies.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate of improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in section XX-X. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A man-made structure; usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of Title 44 CFR.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one (1) or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle."
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on the Town of Locust Grove's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the Town of Locust Grove City Council and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
OWRB: The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   1.   Built on a single chassis;
   2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Public Law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure."
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the town board of adjustment to a person from
the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements see Section
60.6 of Title 44 CFR.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this Town of Locust Grove Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
10-11-10: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Locust.
Grove. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-11: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study for Mayes County, Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas"
dated 9/16/2011, Flood map #40097C0360E are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Flood Hazard Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-13: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2020-04,
7-13-2020)
10-11-15: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the board of commissioners; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-16: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 2020-04,
7-13-2020)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
10-11-20: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Board of Trustees of the Town of Locust Grove designates the Mayor and/or
appoints a designee as the floodplain administrator, who shall be accredited by
the Oklahoma Water Resource Board (OWRB) and to discharge the duties and
responsibilities of floodplain administrator as he or she may deem appropriate.
The floodplain administrator shall administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter and other appropriate sections of National Flood Insurance Program
regulations in Title 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance - Nation Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 2020-
04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-21: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with Title 82 O.S. §§ 1601-
1618, as amended.
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
   D.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
(including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval are required.
   E.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions).
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the FEMA.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   Require the developer/applicant to provide the base flood elevation,
the lowest adjacent grade, the highest adjacent grade and other relevant
information on the standard FEMA Elevation Certificate form prior to
construction, after the lowest adjacent floor has been poured and after
construction in order to administer the variance procedures of this chapter.
   I.   If the application satisfies the requirements of this chapter, approve
the issuance of one of the following:
      1.   A two-part Flood Hazard Development Permit for elevated structures.
         a.   Part 1 shall authorize applicant to build a structure to and
including the first horizontal floor only above the BFE. At that time the
applicant shall provide the Flood Plain Administrator with a second Elevation
Certificate completed by a Professional Land Surveyor, registered Professional
engineer or architect based on the Part 1 permit construction, "as built", for
verifying compliance with the elevation requirements. Following review of the
Elevation Certificate data, which shall take place within 72 hours of receipt
of the application, the Flood Plain Administrator shall issue Part 2 of the
Flood Hazard Development Permit.
         b.   Part 2 shall authorize the applicant to complete the construction
project.
      2.   A Flood Hazard Development Permit for Flood proofing of Non-
Residential Structures that are new construction or substantially improved Non-
Residential structures that are not being elevated but that meet the flood
proofing standards. The application for this permit shall include a Flood
proofing Certificate signed by a registered professional engineer.
      3.   A Flood Hazard Development Permit for Minor Development for all
development that is not new construction or substantial improvement, such as
repairs, maintenance, renovations, or additions, whose value is less than fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure. Minor development includes,
but is not limited to: accessory structures, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation, storage of equipment or materials, deposition or extraction
of materials, public or private sewage disposal systems or water supply
facilities that do not involve structures; and non-structural project such as
bridges, dams, towers, fencing, pipeline.
   J.   When a floodway has not been designated, the floodplain administrator
must require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone A as delineated on
the Locust Grove County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one (1) foot at any point within the Town of Locust Grove.
   K.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the Town of Locust Grove, determine if the residential and non-residential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement.
   L.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal.
   M.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-22: APPLICATION FEE AND EXPERT'S FEE:
A nonrefundable application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for all minor
development and fifty dollars ($50.00) for all new construction or substantial
improvements shall be paid to the Town Clerk and a copy of a receipt for the
same shall accompany the application.
An additional fee may be charged if the Flood Plain Administrator and/or the
Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board need the assistance of a
professional engineer or other expert. The expert's fee shall be paid in full
by the applicant within ten (10) days after the town submits a bill to the
applicant. Failure to pay the bill shall constitute a violation of the
ordinance and be grounds for the issuance of a stop work order. An expert shall
not be hired by the municipality at the expense of an applicant until the
applicant has either consented to such hiring in writing or been given an
opportunity to be heard on the subject. An applicant who is dissatisfied with a
decision to hire expert assistance may appeal that decision to the Locust Grove
Flood Mitigation Advisory Board. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-23: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and will include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non residential
structure shall be flood proofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood proofing
criteria of Section
10-11-36B.
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Section
10-11-21A.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site;
      8.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-24: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board, as established by the
community, shall hear and render judgement on requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall hear and render
judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in
the enforcement of this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Locust Grove
Flood Mitigation Advisory Board may appeal such decision in the courts of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any variance
shall be sent by the floodplain administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within
fifteen (15) days after issuance of the variance.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (½) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
10-11-22 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (½) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the intent
of this chapter, the Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board may attach
such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further
the purposes and objectives of this chapter (Section
10-11-3).
      1.   Compliance with this chapter will result in an arbitrary and
unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the
people.
      2.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated:
      1.   Floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result;
      2.   Where the effect of the variance would permit the continuance of a
condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards; or
      3.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in Section
10-11-23 are met.
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   L.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any person
who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
   M.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition in writing to the
Town Clerk with a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   N.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base flood
elevation will be issued a notice signed by the chairman of the Locust Grove
Flood Mitigation Advisory Board which states that:
      "The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than the base flood
elevation, and”
   O.   At such time as the board of adjustment deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board
shall schedule a hearing and direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in
a newspaper of general circulation in Mayes County, OK at least thirty (30)
days prior to the hearing.
   P.   The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall conduct the
hearing and make determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of
this section. The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall exercise
wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the advantages and
disadvantages to the applicant and to the public at large when determining
whether the variance shall be granted. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
FLOOD MITIGATION ADVISORY BOARD
10-11-30: CREATION OF THE LOCUST GROVE FLOOD MITIGATION ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   There is hereby created the Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory
Board.
   B.   The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall have the
authority to inquire into all flood-related issues which may affect the Town of
Locust Grove, Oklahoma, and to make recommendations to the town council
pertaining thereto. The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall have
no authority to establish municipal policy. The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation
Advisory Board may make policy recommendations to the town council and propose
written resolutions and ordinances to the town council.
   C.   The Locust Grove Flood Mitigation Advisory Board shall consist of the
following members.
   D.   The mayor, who shall serve ex officio as chairman of the board.
      1.   A member of the town council who shall serve ex officio as a full
member of the board.
      2.   Four (4) community representatives to be nominated by the mayor
subject to confirmation by the town council. Said representatives shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years and shall serve at the pleasure of the
town council.
The Town Clerk and Town Attorney are charged with the duty to provide
reasonable assistance and cooperation with the Locust Grove Flood Mitigation
Advisory Board to assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities. (Ord.
2020-04, 7-13-2020)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
10-11-35: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-36: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards as set forth in Sections
10-11-10 through
10-11-16 the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at least two (2) feet above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer shall submit a Certificate of Elevation to the flood
plain administrator that the standard of this subsection is satisfied as
proposed in
10-11-22.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least two (2) feet
above the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer,
architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of al! openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within Zones A on the Locust Grove FIRM shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam of the
manufactured home is elevated as least two (2) feet above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to
Oklahoma State Law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the
floodplain administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
   E.   An existing manufactured home which has incurred "substantial damage"
as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated as least two (2) feet
above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a
licensed installer according to Oklahoma State Law and compliance herewith
shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said installer
prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A on the Locust Grove FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of Section
10-11-37, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes"
in paragraph (D) of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   G.   Accessory Structure: Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A on the Locust Grove FIRM shall comply with the following:
      1.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      2.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      3.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      4.   Structures shall be small in size, not to exceed six hundred (600)
square feet in size;
      5.   Structures exceeding six hundred (600) square feet in size will be
required to meet all applicable standards of Section
10-11-12, Section
10-11-22, and Sections
10-11-35 and
10-11-36 including relevant subsections;
      6.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE plus two (2) foot freeboard;
      7.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      8.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      9.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement so as not to cause damage to adjacent and nearby
structures;
      10.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      11.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents);
      12.   The openings (flood vent) shall be located no higher than one (1)
foot above grade; and
      13.   The openings (flood vents) shall provide automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-37: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with
10-11-2 through
10-11-4 of this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of Section
10-11-12, Section
10-11-22, and Section
10-11-30 of this chapter.
   C.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A which is fifty (50) or more lots or greater than five (5) acres shall
generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   D.   All subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
10-11-38: PENALTIES FOR NON COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days or both, for each violation,
and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the town council of the Town of Locust Grove or
its town attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2020-04, 7-13-2020)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
INTERIM ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Purpose, Intent And Necessity
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Application Of Provisions; Effect
11-1-5: Residential Uses Only; Exceptions
11-1-6: Zoning Clearance Permit Procedure
11-1-7: Mobile Home Park Permit Requirements
11-1-8: Mobile Homes Outside Of Mobile Home Parks
11-1-9: Nonconforming Structures And Uses
11-1-10: Violation; Penalty
11-1-11: Accessory Structures
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the INTERIM ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE
TOWN OF LOCUST GROVE, OKLAHOMA. (2014 Code § 12-202)
11-1-2: PURPOSE, INTENT AND NECESSITY:
   A.   The purpose and intent of the Town Board of Trustees is to immediately
begin the preparation of and to adopt a General Plan for the Town that will
provide for the development of an orderly, attractive, efficient and healthful
Town; and it is further intended that a comprehensive zoning ordinance shall be
prepared and adopted to implement the General Plan.
   B.   The Board of Trustees recognizes that the preparation of such a
comprehensive zoning ordinance shall require considerable time for surveys,
investigations and studies before such regulations can be prepared and adopted.
During the time that such comprehensive zoning ordinance and regulations are
being prepared, it would be injurious to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community that the regulations are intended to promote;
to permit the indiscriminate location and conduct of certain activities within
the commercial or industrial areas of the Town; or to allow the overcrowding of
land with buildings for commercial purposes; or to permit the projection of
buildings into yard areas needed to provide for light, air and open space for
the occupants, tenants or owners thereof.
   C.   The Town Board of Trustees hereby declares the purpose of the
regulations and restrictions set forth herein is to promote the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare by controlling, regulating and restricting
the height, number of stories, size of buildings and other structures; the
percentage of lots that may be occupied; size of yards, courts and other open
spaces; the density and location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, business, industry or other purposes for a reasonable period until such
comprehensive zoning ordinance has been financed, prepared, adopted and
approved. (2014 Code § 12-201)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the word "building" shall mean and be interchangeable with the
word "structure". The word "used" shall be included and be interchangeable with
"arranged", "designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented",
"leased", or "intended to be used". The definitions set out below shall govern
the interpretation of the words to which they are attached.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building or structure customarily incidental and
subordinate to the main building and located on the same lot with the main or
principal building.
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate to
the principal use of the land or buildings located on the same lot or premises.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Board of Trustees of the Town, and necessarily includes
and is interchangeable with the "Town", "Town Board of Trustees" and "Governing
Body".
BUILDING: Any structure intended for shelter, housing, or the enclosure of
persons, animals, or chattels. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
on which it is situated. Any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on
the lot on which it is situated.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used as living
quarters for one or more persons.
LOT: Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building or a
group of buildings, and its accessory building and uses, including open spaces,
and having its principal frontage on a street.
MOBILE HOME: Means and includes any vehicle or structure so designed and so
constructed as to permit occupancy thereof as a temporary or permanent dwelling
or sleeping place for one or more persons and originally designed or
constructed to be placed on wheels and moved about by towing or otherwise,
whether or not the wheels for such vehicle or structure have been put in place
or removed, and shall include what is commonly called a trailer coach. Vehicles
or equipment commonly known as campers or overnight campers, the sleeping
quarters of which are being occupied, shall be included within the meaning of
the term mobile home and governed by the provisions of this chapter. Such
campers, which are not being occupied, shall be excepted from the meaning of
such term for the purpose of this chapter.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive use
of the occupants of a single mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field or tract of ground upon which mobile
homes are placed for occupancy, and shall include any building, structure,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of
such park.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Any type of land use not classified as a residence or dwelling
place of one or more persons, and includes commercial, industrial and all other
types of land uses.
PLANNING COMMISSION OR COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the Town, and
necessarily includes and is interchangeable with "commission", or "Zoning
Commission".
RESIDENCE OR RESIDENTIAL: Any building, structure, or portion thereof, which is
designated or used as living quarters for one or more persons, but not
including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, boarding or rooming house, hotel or
motel, apartment, duplex, or multiple dwelling.
STREET: Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as the bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground. (2014 Code § 12-204)
11-1-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EFFECT:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands, properties, buildings
and structures located within the corporate limits of the Town, except as
hereinafter otherwise provided, and no land shall be used and no building,
structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed or altered except
in accordance with the provisions contained in this chapter. This chapter shall
remain in full force and effect until the comprehensive zoning ordinance is
adopted by the Town Board of Trustees. (2014 Code § 12-203)
11-1-5: RESIDENTIAL USES ONLY; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful to use any land or to locate, erect, or construct any building
or structure intended or designed to be used for commercial, industrial, or any
other types of land uses or purposes other than residential purposes, or to
change the use of any building or land for any other than residential purposes
as hereinbefore defined. However, a zoning clearance permit signifying the
express authorization of the Board of Trustees may permit such commercial,
industrial, or other types of land uses to be located, expanded, or moved
anywhere within the corporate limits of the Town. (2014 Code § 12-205)
11-1-6: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
All commercial, industrial, or other types of land uses other than residential
uses shall be reviewed and authorized or rejected under the following
procedure:
   A.   Application For Permit: An application shall be filed with the Planning
Commission for review. The application, accompanied by a fee as set by the Town
Board, shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer who shall act as the Filing
Clerk for the Planning Commission. Upon the filing of such application, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the same to the Planning Commission for its
action. The application may be by letter or by other document sufficient to
represent the applicant's intent and shall show the location and intended use
of the site, the names of all the property owners and existing land uses within
three hundred feet (300') and any other material pertinent to the request which
the Planning Commission may require. (2014 Code § 12-206)
   B.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: The Planning Commission, within a
reasonable time following the filing of such application, shall transmit to the
Board of Trustees its report as to the effect of such proposed building or use
upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utilities
and other matters pertaining to the general welfare, and the recommendation of
the Planning Commission concerning use thereon. Thereupon, the Board of
Trustees may authorize or deny the issuance of a permit for the use of land or
buildings as requested. Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the zoning
clearance permit may be issued by the Town Clerk- Treasurer. (2014 Code § 12-
206; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Public Hearings: Under a variety of programs created and administered
by various Federal and State agencies, local government is authorized, and in
some cases required, to hold public hearings on certain proposals received by
the Town in order to make certain determinations necessary for the operation of
the program. These public hearings shall be conducted by the Town according to
law or according to the applicable procedures required by a Federal or State
agency. Examples of such hearings shall specifically include, but are not
limited to, low income housing tax credit programs of the Internal Revenue
Service, as administered by the Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency under rule 330:
36-5-3(e) and (g). (2018 Code)
11-1-7: MOBILE HOME PARK PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful within the Town
for any person to construct or operate a mobile home park without first
securing a permit. No mobile home park shall be operated within the Town,
except as provided in this section. (2014 Code § 12-206)
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring a permit to operate a
mobile home park shall file a written application therefor with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. With each application for a permit for any proposed or new mobile
home park, a park plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
inspection and recommendation made for the approval of the Board of Trustees.
The application for permit must include the name and address of the applicant
and a legal description and complete plan of the proposed park. (2014 Code §
12-206; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Permit Fee; Term; Renewals: The permit for a mobile home park shall be
obtained from the Town Clerk-Treasurer for a fee as set by the Board of
Trustees and shall be for the period ending and shall expire on April 30
following the date of issuance. Application for renewal of permits may be made
within thirty (30) days prior to expiration at a fee set by the Town Board of
Trustees for the period of one year from the date of expiration.
   D.   Display Of Permit: The permit must be conspicuously displayed at all
times. (2014 Code § 12-206)
11-1-8: MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Parking On Public Ways: It shall be unlawful within the limits of the
Town for any person to park any mobile home of any kind on any street, alley,
highway or other public place in the Town.
   B.   Temporary Storage On Private Property: Temporary storage of unoccupied
mobile homes on private property may be permitted for a period of forty eight
(48) hours by obtaining from the Town Clerk-Treasurer a permit therefor by
filing an application describing the premises on which the temporary storage
will take place, duly signed by the record owner of such real property and
endorsed by the owner of the mobile home stand stating that he understands that
the permit is of a temporary nature and upon the payment of the fee as set by
the Board of Trustees to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the issuance of such
permit, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue said permit, which shall be
attached in a conspicuous place upon said mobile home. Failure to obtain or
attach such permit in a conspicuous place upon said mobile home constitutes an
offense.
   C.   Zoning Clearance Permit Required: Except for temporary storage, as
defined in subsection B of this section, or a permitted mobile home sales or
service establishment for the purpose of sales or service, or within an
approved mobile home park, no mobile home shall be parked, used or occupied on
any tract of ground in the Town without a zoning clearance permit as required
in this chapter.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   The parking, usage, occupying or storage of any mobile home contrary
to the provisions of this section shall subject the owner to a penalty by fine
as provided in section
11-1-10 of this chapter, and each day shall be considered a separate offense.
      2.   The sufferance of an unauthorized parking of any mobile home by the
owner of any real property shall subject said owner to the same penalty as set
forth in subsection D1 of this section. (2014 Code § 12-206)
11-1-9: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Continuance Of Structure Or Use: Any building, structure or use
lawfully existing at the effective date hereof may be continued, even though
such building, structure or use does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Damage To Structures: If any nonconforming building, structure, use or
mobile home is damaged by fire or natural disaster, such nonconforming use or
structure shall not be reerected or reestablished without the expressed consent
of the Board of Trustees who will consider and approve such request only if the
applicant can identify a hardship that was not self-imposed. (2014 Code § 12-
207)
11-1-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2014 Code § 12-208; amd.
2018 Code)
11-1-11: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Definition: RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Includes, but is not limited to,
accessory dwelling unit (ADU), barns, carports, decks, fences, flagpoles, play
houses, storage buildings, safe rooms, swimming pools, tree houses, and
workshops.
   A.   Generally Applicable Regulations:
      1.   Accessory Uses Allowed: Accessory uses and structures are allowed
only in connection with lawfully established principal uses.
      2.   Allowed Uses And Structures: Allowed uses and structures are limited
to those expressly regulated in this chapter as well as those that, in the
determination of the Board of Trustees, satisfy all the following criteria:
         a.   They are customarily found in conjunction with the subject
principal use or principal structure;
         b.   They are subordinate and clearly incidental to the principal use
of the property; and
         c.   They serve a necessary function for or contribute to the comfort,
safety or convenience of the occupants of the principal use.
      3.   Time Of Construction And Establishment:
         a.   Accessory uses may be established only after the principal use of
the property is in place.
         b.   Accessory buildings may be established in conjunction with or
after the principal building or use. They may not be established before the
principal building or use is in place.
      4.   Location: Accessory uses and structures must be located on the same
lot as the principal use to which they are accessory, unless otherwise
expressly stated.
      5.   Compliance With Lot And Building Regulations: Unless otherwise
expressly stated, accessory uses and structures are subject to the same lot and
building regulations as apply to principal uses and buildings.
      6.   Accessory Building Size: The total aggregate floor area of all
detached accessory buildings, including accessory dwelling units, and accessory
buildings not erected as an integral part of the principal residential building
may not exceed five hundred (500) square feet or forty percent (40%) of the
floor area of the principal residential structure, whichever is greater.
      7.   Permit: A permit is required for all accessory buildings regardless
of size of the building. This is to ensure that accessory buildings are not
placed over building setback lines or over utility easements or in a floodway
or floodplain.
         a.   Requirements For A Permit For Accessory Building:
            1)   The name of property owner, name of applicant, name of
contractor, if any, and the address or location of the proposed structure.
            2)   Description of the proposed structure providing details of
construction, components and proposed attachments to the ground or other basis.
            3)   Plot plan, in a scale of one (1) inch equals twenty (20) feet,
showing the boundaries of the property on which emplacement is proposed, the
precise location of the structure to all buildings and other structures on the
property, and to the property lines (plot plan example in Town Clerk's office).
            4)   For structures which contain or involve electrical wiring, a
plan in the form prescribed by the National Electric Code as adopted by the
town, giving all information required.
            5)   Mechanical/plumbing plans are required for any accessory
structure as prescribed by the Oklahoma Unified Building Code as adopted by the
town, giving all information required.
            6)   Permit fee(s) for an accessory structure.
      8.   Permit Review Process For Accessory Building: Applicants should
submit construction documents at least three (3) weeks before a building permit
is desired. Applicants will be notified after the plans have been reviewed by
the building inspector. Permits are valid for six (6) months; however, if a
relevant inspection has been approved within the first six (6) months, the
permit shall then be valid for a year from the date of issuance. The Board of
Trustees discourages applicants from ordering building materials or scheduling
labor prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      The owner or his/her authorized agent is responsible for coordinating all
required inspections after the permit is issued. Inspections are necessary
prior to covering any electrical, mechanical, plumbing or structural system
component. Inspections must be requested at least one (1) working day in
advance of when it is needed, and only the contractor of record can call for
their own inspections.
   B.   Residential Storage Buildings: In addition to other applicable
regulations, the following basic standards apply for accessory buildings:
      1.   Residential accessory buildings, such as detached garages, workshops
and storage buildings, that are to have three hundred fifty (350) square feet
or larger shall have a floor of concrete with a foundation which complies with
the building code.
      2.   Accessory structures shall not exceed eight (8) feet above the
ground in height at the wall, and the roof of said structure shall have a
minimum of 5/12 and a maximum of 12/12 roof pitch. These pitch requirements may
be waived for very small buildings that are prefabricated and intended as
temporary improvements.
      3.   Accessory, temporary and portable buildings, not including detached
garages that do not exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet in area, shall
be exempt from requirements regarding footings and floors, but shall be
anchored in a manner approved by the building official that is at least
equivalent to using thirty-inch-long, double-helix anchors with steel bands
spaced sixteen (16) inches on center or at each end of the building.
   C.   Portable Storage Containers: Portable storage containers are not to be
used as permanent accessory structures. Placement of portable storage
containers is permissible for up to thirty (30) days, provided that an
appropriate permit has been obtained. Extension of this time is permissible
only in case of significant remodeling to the primary structure, in which case
the building inspector may extend the time to match the expiration of the
permit. Container placement shall not cause damage to landscaping. No container
shall be placed within the street right-of-way.
   D.   Safe Rooms:
      1.   In general, above and below ground safe rooms shall comply with
standards promulgated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for
residential or commercial safe rooms. All plans and specifications submitted
for approval must meet the design requirements currently promulgated by FEMA.
      2.   Permit: No person shall install or modify a safe room without first
obtaining a safe room permit and paying the permit fee.
      3.   Location: Front yard locations are not permitted except when
location in the rear or side yard is not practical. Safe rooms installed in
front of the front building line shall comply with the following restrictions:
         a.   The top of the structure shall not extend more than three (3)
inches above finished grade. Structures exceeding three (3) inches above grade
but less than four and one-half (4-1/2) inches above grade may be approved at
the sole discretion of the building inspector and only if adequate landscape
screening is provided.
         b.   Vent pipes shall not extend more than twelve (12) inches above
finished grade.
         c.   Entrance ways must be provided with an external locking device,
such as a hasp and padlock.
         d.   Additional mitigation, including landscaping, may be required.
   E.   Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU): Accessory dwelling units are allowed in
certain situations to:
      1.   Purpose And Intent:
         a.   Support more efficient use of existing housing stock and
infrastructure;
         b.   Provide housing that responds to changing family needs, smaller
households, and increasing housing costs; and
         c.   Provide accessible housing for seniors and persons with
disabilities.
      2.   Definition: A DWELLING UNIT (ADU) is a smaller, secondary home on
the same lot as a detached primary dwelling. ADUs are independently habitable
and provide the basic requirements of shelter, heating, cooking, and
sanitation. There are two (2) types of ADUs:
         a.   Accessory apartments are attached to or part of the primary
dwelling. Examples may include converted living space, attached garages,
basements or attics, additions, or a combination thereof.
         b.   Accessory cottages are detached structures. Examples include
converted garages or new construction.
      3.   Number: One (1) ADU is permitted per residential lot.
      4.   Creation: An ADU may be created through new construction, conversion
of an existing structure, addition to an existing structure, or conversion of a
qualifying existing house to an accessory cottage while simultaneously
constructing a new primary dwelling on the site.
      5.   Approval: The building inspector must approve the proposed ADU as
complying with the standards of this section. Applications for ADUs must meet
the following criteria:
         a.   The applicant must demonstrate that the ADU complies with all
development and design standards of this section; and
         b.   The applicant must demonstrate that the proposed modifications
comply with applicable building and fire safety codes.
      6.   Design: Design standards for ADUs are stated in this section. If not
addressed in this section, base zone development standards apply. All ADUs
(accessory apartments and accessory cottages) must meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Size: An ADU must be no more than seven hundred fifty (750) sq.
ft. or forty percent (40%) of the floor area of the principal residential
structure, whichever is greater.
         b.   Parking: No additional parking is required for an ADU. The
existing required parking for the primary dwelling must be maintained or
replaced on-site.
      7.   Building And Fire Codes: All accessory dwelling units are subject to
applicable building and fire codes.
      8.   Entrances: Building entrances to ADUs may not face the nearest side
or rear property line unless there is an alley abutting that property line.
      9.   Roof Pitch: The roof pitch of any new accessory dwelling unit must
be the same as the predominant roof pitch of the principal building.
   F.   Violations, Remedies:
      1.   When, in the opinion of the building inspector, any structure
permitted under this division is found to be in a condition which indicates
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter or any other chapter of this
code, then in that event the town shall notify the permittee in writing of such
defect, giving permittee fifteen (15) days from the date of notification to
correct the noted deficiencies. If, at the expiration of said fifteen (15)
days, noncompliance still exists, then the town may seek revocation of any
permit by action of the Board of Trustees at a regularly scheduled Board of
Trustees meeting, the date and time of which shall be provided the permittee by
certified or registered mail. If the Board of Trustees finds, based upon the
town's and permittee's evidence, that any noncompliance exists, then the Board
of Trustees may order any corrective action deemed appropriate under the
circumstances. Should the permittee fail to comply with the directions of the
Board of Trustees, or if the Board of Trustees should find the condition to be
a hazard to life or property, then the Board of Trustees may declare same as a
public nuisance and order abatement as in the manner of law provided for the
abatement of public nuisances in the Town Code of Ordinances.
      2.   In addition, any person guilty of the violation of any of the
provisions of this article, upon conviction thereof, may be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of the Locust Grove Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-19-2024)
