CITY OF MORRIS, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 333-23, passed 8-14-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
      This City Code of the City of Morris, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 333-23, passed August 14, 2023.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this City Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the City Office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
            American Legal Publishing
            Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 323-20
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MORRIS, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF MORRIS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Morris, Oklahoma."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinance as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
         TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         TITLE 3: FINANCE AND TAXATION
         TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
         TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
         TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
         TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
         TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
         TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
         TITLE 10: BUILDING REGULATIONS
         TITLE 11: FLOOD CONTROL
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights of certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulation therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 14th day of September, 2020.
                           _____________________________
                           Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
MORRIS CITY CODE   1
SAVING CLAUSE   2
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS   3
GENERAL PENALTY   4
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS   5
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION; ELECTIONS   6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL   7
CITY OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS; PERSONNEL   8
   CITY CLERK AND TREASURER   8A
   RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS   8B
MUNICIPAL COURT   9
   COURT PROCEDURES   9A
CHAPTER 1: MORRIS CITY CODE
Section
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments Or Additions To City Code
1-1-4: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be, and
shall hereafter constitute, the official City Code of Morris. This City Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the MORRIS CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents.
(2020 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
(2020 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS OR ADDITIONS TO CITY CODE:
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in
substantially the following language:
Be it ordained by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Morris, Oklahoma,
that section            of the Morris City Code is hereby amended to read as
follows: (Set out new provisions in full.)
   C.   When the Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the
Council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section             Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Morris,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the Morris City Code, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered
to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be.
(Prior Code § 1-106)
1-1-4: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY:
   A.   All ordinances of the City now in effect within the City are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the City
outside the corporate limits of the City, and shall be in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the City which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the
boundaries of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   B.   Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the City shall be deemed to
mean and include also the outlying real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the City, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code § 1-110)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the City to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title.
(Prior Code § 1-107)
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this
City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City’s indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for City officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Bond ordinances.
      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City.
      11.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All ordinances listed in subsection A of this section shall continue in
full force and effect to the same extent as if fully set out herein.
(2020 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(2020 Code)
      2.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
      3.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or
penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under
the ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code § 1-104)
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code.
(2020 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code or any code adopted herein, or of
any ordinance in the Code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
Code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein.
(Prior Code § 1-105; amd. 2020 Code)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   F.   Law: Includes applicable Federal law, provisions of the Constitution
and Statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the City, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   G.   May/Shall: The word “may” is permissive; the word “shall” is mandatory.
   H.   Or/And: “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the
sense requires it.
   I.   Preceding, Following: The next before and next after, respectively.
   J.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   K.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   L.   Officers, Employees, Agencies Generally: Whenever any officer,
employee, agency or department is referred to by title only, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Morris”.
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Statutory References: Reference to the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma means the Statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   O.   Ordinance: The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this City Code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City’s ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code § 1-102; amd. 2020 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The City of Morris, County of Okmulgee, State of Oklahoma. The word CITY
shall be construed as if the words “of Morris, Oklahoma”, followed.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Morris.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of Morris.
COUNTY: The County of Okmulgee, Oklahoma.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
STATE OR THE STATE: The State of Oklahoma.
(Prior Code § 1-102; amd. 2020 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
The catchlines of sections in this Code are printed in capital letters, and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the
historical source, respectively, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles
and official sources of such sections; nor as any part of the section; nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catchlines or citations, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code § 1-103)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers And Employees
Cross-reference:
   See also chapter 9 of this title for Municipal Court provisions
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed; Limitation: Except where no specific penalty is
provided therefor, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City an act
is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or
whenever in this Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, any person convicted for the violation of any
provision of this Code or of any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Provided, that the
Municipal Court shall not impose a penalty, including fine and costs, that is
greater than that established by Statute of the State of Oklahoma for the same
offense. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Failure To Pay Fine; Working On Streets Or Public Grounds: Any person
fined for violation of a Municipal ordinance who is financially able but
refuses or neglects to pay the fine or costs may be compelled to satisfy the
amount owed by working on the streets, alleys, avenues, areas and public
grounds of the City, subject to the direction of the Street Commissioner, Chief
of Police, or the Chief of Police's designee at a rate per day of fifty dollars
($50.00) for useful labor, until the fine or costs are satisfied.
(Prior Code § 1-108; amd. 2020 Code)
Statutory reference:
   See also 11 OS § 14-111
1-4-2: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Prior Code § 1-109)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this City Code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this City Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this City Code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(2020 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
(2020 Code)
CHAPTER 5: CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
Section
1-5-1: Official City Map
1-5-2: Ward Numbers And Boundaries
1-5-1: OFFICIAL CITY MAP:
The map of the City showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
Official Map of the City, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the City, dated July
22, 1982, prepared by Al C. Young and Associates, Inc.
(Prior Code § 1-201)
1-5-2: WARD NUMBERS AND BOUNDARIES:
The wards and boundaries shall be as follows:
WARD 1: All that area within the corporate limits of the city north and west of
a line commencing on the east boundary of said city limits where same
intersects with the centerline of Jefferson Street; thence west along said
centerline of Jefferson Street to a point on the centerline of North “A”
Street; thence north along said centerline of North “A” Street to the point of
intersection with the city limits; thence due west to the point of intersection
with western most boundary of the corporate limits, said point being one foot
(1') east of the west Section line of Section 12, Township 13 North, Range 13
East, Okmulgee County, Oklahoma;
WARD 2: All that area within the corporate limits of the city south and west of
Ward 1 and north of a line commencing at a point where the most easterly
portion of the boundary line of the corporate limits intersects with the north
boundary line of West Ozark Street (U.S. Highway No. 62); thence westerly,
parallel and adjacent to the north line of West Ozark Street (U.S. Highway No.
62), to the point of its intersection with the centerline of North fifth (N.
5th) Street; thence north along the centerline of said North Fifth (N. 5th)
Street across the abandoned railroad right-of-way and continuing on the
centerline of said North Fifth (N. 5th) Street to a point where same intersects
with the centerline of Washington Street; thence west along the centerline of
said Washington Street to a point where same intersects with the centerline of
North Third (N. 3rd) Street; thence south along said centerline of said North
Third (N. 3rd) Street to a point on the centerline of Okmulgee Street; thence
west along the centerline of said Okmulgee Street to its point of intersection
with the centerline of North First (N. 1st) Street; thence south along the
centerline of North First (N. 1st) Street to the point of its intersection with
the north boundary line of West Ozark Street (U.S. Highway No. 62); thence west
along the northern boundary line of said West Ozark Street, said West Ozark
Street also being known as U.S. Highway #62, to the point of its intersection
with the western most boundary line of said corporate city limits, said point
being one foot (1') east of west Section line of Section 12, Township 13 North,
Range 13 East, Okmulgee County, Oklahoma;
WARD 3: All that area within the corporate limits of the city south of Ward 2
and north of a line commencing at a point on the centerline of Peoria Street
where same intersects with the east line of the corporate city limits; thence
due west along said centerline of Peoria Street to a point where same
intersects with the western most boundary of the corporate limits, said point
being one foot (1') east of the west Section line of Section 13, Township 13
North, Range 13 East, Okmulgee County, Oklahoma; and
WARD 4: All that area within the corporate city limits south of a line
commencing at a point on the centerline of Peoria Street where same intersects
with the east line of the corporate city limits; thence due west along said
centerline of Peoria Street to a point where same intersects with the western
most boundary of the corporate limits, said point being one foot (1') east of
the west Section line of Section 13, Township 13 North, Range 13 East, Okmulgee
County, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code § 1-202)
CHAPTER 6: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION; ELECTIONS
Section
1-6-1: Mayor-Council Form Of Government
1-6-2: Elections
1-6-1: MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The City is governed by the statutory Aldermanic or Mayor-Council form of
government. The powers of the City are vested in the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code § 2-101)
1-6-2: ELECTIONS:
   A.   Election Of Officers; Staggered Terms:
      1.   In a statutory aldermanic city. the terms of the elected officers
shall be staggered so that at any one general Municipal election, the following
officers shall be elected for four-year terms:
         a.   One Council member from each ward of the City;
         b.   The Mayor; and
         c.   The Clerk-Treasurer.
      2.   At the next general Municipal election, the following officers shall
be elected for four-year terms:
One Council member from each ward.
   B.   General And Primary Elections: General Municipal elections are held on
the first Tuesday in April of each odd-numbered year. A primary election shall
be held the second Tuesday of February in each odd-numbered year, at which time
the several political parties shall nominate candidates for offices which are
to be elected at the upcoming general Municipal election.
(Prior Code § 2-102; amd. 2020 Code)
   C.   Manner Of Conducting Municipal Elections:
      1.   The City shall not be governed by the provisions of the Oklahoma
Town Meeting Act under 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-301 et seq., for the
election of its officers and as a method of determining Municipal questions.
      2.   The City shall continue to elect its officers and determine its
Municipal questions under the appropriate provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 16-101 et seq., as pertaining to the aldermanic form of government
adopted and utilized by the City.
      3.   The City shall continue to utilize the Election Board of Okmulgee
County to conduct all Municipal elections as may be required by law.
(Ord. 302-14, 1-13-2014)
CHAPTER 7: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
1-7-1: Mayor
1-7-2: City Council
1-7-3: Council Meetings
1-7-4: Dual Office Holding
1-7-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council and certify
to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it.
      2.   The Mayor is not considered a member of the Council for quorum or
voting purposes, except that he may vote on questions under consideration by
the Council only when the Council is equally divided.
      3.   The Mayor may sign or veto any City ordinance or resolution passed
by the City Council.
      4.   The Mayor shall be Chief Executive Officer and head of the
administrative branch of the City government.
      5.   The Mayor is also recognized as the head of the City government for
all ceremonial purposes and by the Governor for purposes of military law. He
shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 2-201)
   B.   Salary: The salary for the Mayor shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per month, which salary shall become effective at the beginning of
the new term of said office on the first Monday of the month of May 2017.
(Ord. 310-17, 3-13-2017)
1-7-2: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Composition: The City Council shall consist of eight (8) Council
members, two (2) elected from each ward of the City.
   B.   Council President:
      1.   The Council shall elect from among its members a President of the
Council.
      2.   The Council President shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at
the first Council meeting held after Council terms begin or as soon thereafter
as practicable, and he shall serve until his successor has been elected and
qualified.
      3.   The Council President shall act as Mayor in the absence of the
Mayor. While presiding in the place of the Mayor, he shall have all the powers,
rights and privileges as other members of the Council.
   C.   General Powers: The Council shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 2-202)
   D.   Salary: The salary of the Council members shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per month; provided, that they have attended the regular meeting held
during said month. The salary shall become effective at the beginning of the
new term of said office on the first Monday of the month of May 2017.
(Ord. 310-17, 3-13-2017)
1-7-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Time: The City Council shall hold a regular meeting at seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. on the second Monday of every month. If such a Monday falls on a
holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next day which
is not a holiday.
(Prior Code § 2-203)
   B.   Place: Every meeting of the Council shall be held in the Council
Chamber in the City Hall unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor or the
Council members calling a special meeting designate another place in the City
for the holding of the special meeting. An adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the City designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code § 2-204)
1-7-4: DUAL OFFICE HOLDING:
Under authority of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 8-106, the City Council may
designate and ordain multiple offices under some circumstances. Due to the size
of the City, and the fact that the jurisdiction of the volunteer fire district
is significantly different from the City’s jurisdiction and that there are no
financial transactions between these two (2) entities, the City specifically
authorizes an individual to serve both as City Council member and as a member
of a Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code § 2-205)
CHAPTER 8: CITY OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS; PERSONNEL
Section
1-8-1: City Attorney
1-8-2: Building Inspector
1-8-3: Cooperative Health Department; Director
1-8-4: Personnel, Officers And Employees
1-8-5: Fixing Of Salaries
1-8-6: Removal Or Suspension Of Officers And Personnel
1-8-1: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The City Attorney shall be appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council, and shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Mayor and Council. He shall have such qualifications, powers,
and duties as are prescribed by law by the Governing Body for city attorneys.
   B.   Duties: It shall be his duty to advise the Mayor and Council and each
member thereof, and all City officials, upon all law questions, and he shall
give opinions in writing when requested, and shall represent the City as
counsel in all litigation, in all courts, for or against the City, and shall
perform such other legal service in behalf of the City, its officers or
employees, as may be required.
   C.   Compensation: Compensation of the City Attorney shall be established by
the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code § 2-401)
1-8-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
There shall be a Building Inspector, appointed by the Mayor with confirmation
by the City Council. The Building Inspector, otherwise sometimes called the
Building Official, is an officer of the City, and has supervision of the
building inspections, including the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector, and/or any other inspectors and assistant inspectors appointed in
the department.
(Prior Code § 2-402)
1-8-3: COOPERATIVE HEALTH DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR:
The Cooperative Health Department of the County and its Director shall have the
powers of a City Health Department and City Health Officer, respectively, for
the City. References to Health Department and Health Officer or Director of the
Health Department in this Code and in other ordinances of the City mean the
Cooperative Health Department and its Director, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning.
(Prior Code § 2-403)
1-8-4: PERSONNEL, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The Mayor, with approval of the Council, shall appoint such other personnel as
may be necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties relative to the
functions which are lawfully imposed upon or assumed by the City.
(Prior Code § 2-404)
1-8-5: FIXING OF SALARIES:
   A.   Elected Officials:
      1.   The following elected City personnel shall be paid salaries as set
by the Council by ordinance or resolution:
         Mayor;
         City Clerk; and
         City Treasurer.
      2.   The following elected City personnel shall be paid wages as set by
the Council by ordinance or resolution:
         Council members.
   B.   Other Personnel: The Council, by motion or resolution or inclusion of a
plan within the budget, may fix the compensation of other personnel.
(Prior Code § 2-406)
1-8-6: REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF OFFICERS OR PERSONNEL:
Except as may be otherwise provided by law, officers and employees of the City
who are appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Council may be removed for
cause, suspended, or laid off by the Mayor with approval of the Council. The
Mayor and Council may also remove any elective officer for cause except the
Mayor, as provided by law.
(Prior Code § 2-405)
ARTICLE A: CITY CLERK AND TREASURER
Section
1-8A-1: City Clerk
1-8A-2: City Treasurer
1-8A-3: Consolidation Of Clerk And Treasurer
1-8A-4: Financial Reporting
1-8A-5: Applicability To Public Trusts
1-8A-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Election: The City Clerk is an officer of the City, elected for a four-
year term as provided in this Code.
(Prior Code § 2-301)
   B.   Duties Of Clerk:
      1.   The City Clerk shall attend meetings of the City Council and shall
keep a journal of its proceedings, as provided by law. He shall enter at length
all ordinances passed by the Council in the ordinance book, as required by law.
He shall keep the Seal of the City and affix it to documents as required by law
or ordinance.
      2.   The City Clerk shall collect or receive revenues and other money for
the City as provided by law or ordinance, and shall deposit all such monies
promptly with the City Treasurer. He shall keep proper books of accounts and
other financial records, properly recording all financial transactions. He
shall have all other powers and duties prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 2-302)
1-8A-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Election: There shall be a City Treasurer, who is an officer of the
City, elected for a four-year term as provided in this Code.
(Prior Code § 2-303)
   B.   Duties Of Treasurer: The City Treasurer shall receive all monies of the
City paid to him in accordance with law or ordinance and shall deposit daily
all funds coming into his hands in such depositories as the Council may
designate. He shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by applicable
law or ordinance. He shall keep proper books of accounts and other financial
records, properly recording all financial transactions. He shall have such
other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code § 2-304)
   C.   Bond Of Treasurer: The City Treasurer, before entering upon the duties
of his office, shall execute and file with the City Clerk a good and sufficient
bond in the sum as approved by the Council, executed by some reliable fidelity
and surety company lawfully transacting business in the State. The bond and
surety shall be approved by the City Council, and the bond shall be conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of the City Treasurer as provided by
ordinances of the City and enjoined by law. The City shall pay out of its
general revenue the premium for such bond.
(Prior Code § 2-305)
1-8A-3: CONSOLIDATION OF CLERK AND TREASURER:
The Office of City Clerk and the Office of City Treasurer are hereby merged and
consolidated into the Office of City Clerk. The consolidation of the Office of
City Clerk and the Office of City Treasurer shall go into effect at the end of
the present term of Office of the City Treasurer. At that time, the present
City Clerk shall assume powers and duties of the Office of City Treasurer. The
City Clerk shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the offices of City
Clerk and City Treasurer as provided by law and ordinance.
(Prior Code § 2-306; amd. Ord. 310-17, 3-13-2017; Ord. 314-18, 10-9-2018)
Statutory reference:
   See also 11 OS § 9-115
1-8A-4: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
The City Treasurer, or their designee, shall prepare a monthly budget status
report in accordance with a comparison of actual results to date and the budget
by purpose. The report shall be placed on the Agenda for City Council
acknowledgment at a meeting of the City Council in the month following the
close of the monthly period.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
1-8A-5: APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC TRUSTS:
   A.   For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S., Sections 176-180,
for which the City is beneficiary and for which the trust’s governing body
(Trustees) are comprised entirely of members of the City Council, the above
noted requirements of Section 1-8A-1 through Section
1-8A-2 above, excluding Section 3-1-10 on Incurring Indebtedness, shall apply.
   B.   For the purposes of the public trusts, as used above, the terms
governing body shall mean board of trustees of the trust, Chief Executive
Officer shall mean Trust Manager as appointed by the trustees, City Treasurer
shall mean Trust Treasurer as appointed by the trustees or required by the
trust indenture.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
ARTICLE B: RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
Section
1-8B-1: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-8B-2: Employee Retirement System
1-8B-1: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Fund Operated Pursuant To State Law: The City’s Firefighters Pension
and Retirement System and Fund shall be operated in accordance with State law
relating to the fund and system.
(Prior Code § 2-601)
   B.   Contributions To Fund:
      1.   The City Clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the Fire Department the amounts which are required by applicable
State law. If the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The City Treasurer shall deposit monthly with
the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
Fire Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
      2.   a. The City Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable State law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
         b.   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the City
Treasurer shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Board the amounts of money which are required by applicable State
law. These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as
set by the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
         c.   All assets of the City Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund
shall be transferred to the Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code § 2-602)
Statutory reference:
   See also 11 OS § 49-101 et seq.
1-8B-2: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Adopted: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the
State of Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and
meritorious service on the part of City employees and thereby promote public
efficiency, there is authorized, created, established, approved and adopted,
effective as of March 1, 2010, the funded pension plan designated “Employee
Retirement System of City of Morris and Morris Public Works Authority,
Oklahoma, Defined Contribution Plan”, hereinafter called “system”, an executed
counterpart of which is marked exhibit A and exhibit B and attached to the
original ordinance as part thereof.
   B.   Administration: For the purpose of administration of the system there
is established a Retirement Committee, which shall be the members of the City
Council of the City of Morris and Morris Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, as
now existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted.
The powers and duties of the committee shall be as set forth in the system
instrument designated as exhibit B.
   C.   Fund: A fund is provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the
persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such fund
shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the City. Such
fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar
funds of other incorporated cities and towns in the State of Oklahoma as a part
of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, in accordance with the trust
agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, a public trust. The City
shall hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay
over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the County Excise Board.
   D.   Appropriations: The City of Morris and Morris Public Works Authority,
Oklahoma, are authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the establishment,
operation and administration of the system and to appropriate and pay the same.
In addition, the City of Morris and the Morris Public Works Authority are
authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to
employee contributions, to maintain the system and the fund in accordance with
the provisions of the defined contribution plan. Any appropriation so made to
maintain the system and fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries, and for
the payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration to be
transferred to the trustees of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund for such
purposes, and shall be paid into the fund when available, to be duly
transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund.
   E.   Pick-Up Program: The plan contains provisions which are intended to
constitute a pick-up program by the employer which satisfied the requirements
of section 414(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”); and the
plan, be, and it is, approved and adopted as of the date therein stated; and
required contributions described in section 5 of the joinder are designated as
“picked-up” by the employer so as to not be included in plan participants'
gross income for Federal income tax purposes as provided in section 414(h)(2)
of the Code. All such required contributions are to be paid by the employer in
lieu of contributions by the plan participant. No participant in the plan shall
have the option of choosing to receive the amounts of required contributions
directly in lieu of having such amounts paid by the employer to the Trustees of
the plan.
   F.   Execution: The Mayor and City Clerk are each authorized and directed to
execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) the
system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary, advisable and
proper to put the system and related trust into full force and effect, and to
make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under
sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States.
The counterpart (on file in the Office of the City Clerk) which has been duly
executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the effective date hereof and made a
part hereof, is ratified and confirmed in all respects. The committee is
authorized and directed to proceed immediately on behalf of the City of Morris
and the Morris Public Works Authority, Oklahoma, pool and combine the fund into
the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
(Prior Code § 2-603)
Statutory reference:
   See also 11 OS § 48-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 9: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
1-9-1: Organization And Operation Of Municipal Court
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-9-4: Judge Of The Court
1-9-5: Change Of Venue; Disqualification Of Judge
1-9-6: Principal Officer And Marshal Of Court
1-9-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-9-8: Prosecuting Attorney, Duties
1-9-9: Court Costs; Collection Fee
1-9-10: Failure To Pay Or Appear
1-9-1: ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal Court
of the City of Morris, as put into operation by resolution, duly passed and
filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections
27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of the City, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   11 OS § 27-101 et seq.
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, as well as article A hereof, unless the context
requires a different meaning, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the City.
CLERK: The Clerk of the City, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk’s Office.
COURT: The Municipal Court of the City of Morris.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Morris.
JUDGE: The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the Statutes of this State and this
chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The District Court judicial district of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this City is situated.
(Prior Code § 6-102; amd. 2020 Code)
1-9-3: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the City is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Prior Code § 6-103)
1-9-4: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Qualifications: There shall be one Judge of the Court. A judge need not
be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he must be a resident of the City
of the age of twenty one (21) years, possessed of good moral character. A judge
who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts,
but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as Judge, or
arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein.
(Prior Code § 6-104)
   B.   Term: The official term of the Judge shall be two (2) years expiring on
June 1 in each odd- numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper
cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code § 6-105)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court
an Alternate Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge
in this chapter. His appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the Judge. He shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case
if the Judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court;
      2.   Unable to act as Judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code § 6-106)
   D.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no Judge or Alternate Judge, duly
appointed and qualified available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some
person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge,
who shall preside as Acting Judge over the court in the disposition of pending
matters until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code § 6-107)
   E.   Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge: Judges and Alternate Judges
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Governing Body. A
proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the Governing Body at the
next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the
appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly
scheduled meeting. The Governing Body may decide upon the proposed appointment
by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the Governing Body unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws
the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code § 6-108)
   F.   Salary And Payments To Judges:
      1.   A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the Governing Body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the City.
      2.   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the Governing Body; however, payments to an Acting
or Alternate Judge shall not exceed the salary set for a Judge in whose stead
he sits.
(Prior Code § 6-109)
   G.   Removal Of Judge:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the Governing Body
for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of this State for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         a.   The Mayor; or
         b.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of the City.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      2.   The Governing Body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to:
         a.   Representation by counsel;
         b.   Present testimony and cross-examine the witnesses against him;
and
         c.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      3.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings (75 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 309 to 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the Governing Body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code § 6-110)
   H.   Vacancy:
      1.   A vacancy in the Office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the Office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code § 6-111)
1-9-5: CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
   A.   In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed;
but the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification
or he may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and
procedure provided by law for courts of record.
   B.   If a Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an Alternate
or Acting Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code § 6-112)
1-9-6: PRINCIPAL OFFICER AND MARSHAL OF COURT:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the Chief of Police of the City, who shall be the principal officer and Marshal
of the Court.
(Prior Code § 6-113)
1-9-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Duties: The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be the Clerk of
the Court. He shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the court
and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He shall administer oaths
required in proceedings before the court. He shall enter all pleadings,
processes, and proceedings in the dockets of the court. He shall perform such
other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of the court as the Judge
shall direct. He shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits,
and sums of money payable to the court. He shall pay to the Treasurer of the
City on the first and fifteenth days of each month all monies so received by
him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed
by him for special purposes. All monies paid to the Treasurer shall be placed
in the General Fund of the City, or in such other funds as the Governing Body
may direct, and shall be used in the operation of the City government in
accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is
placed.
(Prior Code § 6-114)
   B.   Bond: The Court Clerk shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to
the Governing Body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the City
Clerk and retained in the City archives.
(Prior Code § 6-116)
1-9-8: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, DUTIES:
The attorney for the City or his duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the City. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the State, and to represent the City in
all proceedings arising out of matters in this court.
(Prior Code § 6-115)
1-9-9: COURT COSTS; COLLECTION FEE:
   A.   Court Costs: There are hereby established court costs in the amount of
thirty dollars ($30.00), to be collected upon a plea of guilty or of no contest
in each prosecution in the Municipal Court. Said fee may be waived by the
Municipal Judge or City Attorney, but only in writing and only in the interests
of justice. Provided, that these court costs shall not be collected in any case
where the costs are effectively preempted, in whole or in part, by applicable
State law.
(Prior Code § 6-117)
   B.   Collection Fee: A collection fee of thirty five percent (35%) of court
penalties, costs, fines, and fees in cases in which the accused has failed to
appear or otherwise failed to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the
court shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection agency
for collection.
(Ord. 309-16, 8-8-2016)
1-9-10: FAILURE TO PAY OR APPEAR:
   A.   Any person who has signed a citation on which he or she promises to
appear in Municipal Court on a date certain, or having been released on
recognizance, or having appeared in court has agreed to appear at any new date
for a hearing of any type, and any person having asked for the opportunity to
pay his/her fine and costs over time so as to have signed a payment plan with
the City, shall be deemed to have voluntarily made such promises to the Judge
of the Municipal Court together with the assertion that they are physically and
financially capable of complying.
   B.   In the event of the failure to appear as promised, or the failure to
pay as promised, such failure shall be treated as an offense and contempt of
court. A warrant may be issued for the arrest of the defendant upon the
apparent violation of this section. It shall be an affirmative defense to said
contempt of court proceeding that serious illness, financial calamity or other
unforeseen circumstances outside of the defendant’s control, made it impossible
for the defendant to fulfill his or her promise to the court.
(Prior Code § 6-118)
ARTICLE A: COURT PROCEDURES
Section
1-9A-1: Rules And Conduct Of The Court
1-9A-2: Filing Of Written Complaints
1-9A-3: Traffic Violations; Procedure
1-9A-4: Traffic Violations Bureau
1-9A-5: Summons For Arrest
1-9A-6: Form Of Arrest Warrant
1-9A-7: Bail Or Bond Procedures
1-9A-8: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
1-9A-9: Trials And Judgments
1-9A-10: Witness Fees
1-9A-11: Suspension Of Sentence
1-9A-12: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
1-9A-13: Fines And Costs
1-9A-1: RULES AND CONDUCT OF THE COURT:
   A.   Prescribed By Judge: The Judge of the Municipal Court may prescribe
rules, consistent with the laws of the State and with the ordinances of the
City, for the proper conduct of the business of the court.
(Prior Code § 6-201)
   B.   Enforcement Of Rules: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made
by the Judge or by the court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed
against process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this State.
(Prior Code § 6-202)
   C.   Conduct Of Sessions Of Court; Notice: The Judge of the Court shall
conduct regular sessions of the Municipal Court. Notice of the sessions shall
be given as prescribed in the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act (25 OS § 301 et seq.)
(Prior Code § 6-217)
1-9A-2: FILING OF WRITTEN COMPLAINTS:
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the City shall be styled “The
City of Morris vs. (naming defendant or defendants)”. Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the City
Attorney.
(Prior Code § 6-203)
1-9A-3: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Citation Issuance:
      1.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of the City, committed by a resident
thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he may take his name address,
operator's license number, and registered license number of the motor vehicle
involved and any other pertinent and necessary information and may issue him in
writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his duly designated delegate, a
traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to the charge
against him at the date and time designated on the traffic citation.
      2.   The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this article.
   B.   Release, Custody, Bail: If the alleged traffic violation is committed
by a nonresident or resident of the City, the police officer may:
      1.   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set out
in subsection A of this section pending his appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation after the person:
         a.   Posts cash bail; or
         b.   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate;
      2.   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this article; or
      3.   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this article. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A
of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in subsection A or B of this section, with such variation as the
circumstances require. The operator of this vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under subsection A or B of this section.
(Prior Code § 6-204)
1-9A-4: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   A Traffic Violations Bureau is authorized for the City and may be put
into effect by the Municipal Judge. The Judge may establish rules, consistent
with the laws of the State and with the ordinances of the City, for the Traffic
Violations Bureau.
   B.   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall be staffed by court personnel and
be physically separate and apart from the Police Department.
   C.   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the Judge under the court's rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the Governing Body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the Clerk’s Office.
   D.   All such fines shall be the minimum penalty prescribed for such
violation, and no costs shall be assessed.
   E.   In no event shall payment of a fine without court appearance be
accepted in the Traffic Violations Bureau for the following offenses:
      1.   A second or subsequent offense of the same violation;
      2.   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs;
      3.   Leaving the scene of an accident;
      4.   Driving while license is suspended or revoked;
      5.   Reckless driving;
      6.   Careless driving; or
      7.   Any charge made because of a motor vehicle accident in which
personal injury or death occurred.
   F.   Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. In no event shall any
such payment be introduced as evidence in any civil case arising out of the
offense charged.
(Prior Code § 6-205)
1-9A-5: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance, the
Judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
court on a certain day, five (5) days (Sundays and holidays excepted) after the
summons is served upon him, and including such other pertinent information as
may be necessary.
   B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as provided by
this article.
(Prior Code § 6-206)
1-9A-6: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the City, upon the
filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of the City
or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially
the following form:
         The City of Morris to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Morris,
Oklahoma.
         Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense (naming the offense in particular by general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name
of defendant) before me, at the Municipal Courtroom,
         Witness my hand this       day of               , 20
         Judge of the Municipal Court Morris, Oklahoma.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Marshal, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of the City, or through any other person
lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code § 6-207)
1-9A-7: BAIL OR BOND PROCEDURES:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to a citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this article or the Judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the Judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by
ordinance for the offense charged.
(Prior Code § 6-208)
1-9A-8: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The Judge or the City Attorney shall read the complaint to the defendant,
inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if
available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, the court may
proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code § 6-210)
1-9A-9: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain
a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   C.   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this article, or by the
Statutes relating to Municipal Criminal Courts or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   D.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, pleads the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   E.   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   G.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day's imprisonment
for each twenty five dollars ($25.00) of fine. If the defendant is without
means to pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the total amount
due to be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the District
Court of the County where it shall be entered upon the District Court judgment
docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District Court judgment.
Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the enforcement of the
judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
(Prior Code § 6-211)
1-9A-10: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than the police officers
or peace officers shall be entitled to a fee as set by the City per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the City. However, no witness shall receive fees or
mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same travel.
   B.   1. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
Clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for
each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
      2.   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the City.
(Prior Code § 6-212)
1-9A-11: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE:
After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed
by, 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code § 6-213)
1-9A-12: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the
Sheriff of the County or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   B.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for
labor performed.
   C.   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the Governing Body,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself, or by some
person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the
Chief of Police shall make provision therefor.
(Prior Code § 6-214)
1-9A-13: FINES AND COSTS:
If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the
costs to the defendant in the sum as set by the Court Judge, but such costs
shall not exceed the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) plus the fees and mileage
of witnesses. The total amount of fine and costs may not exceed the amount set
in section
1-4-1 of this title and up to thirty (30) days in jail.
(Prior Code § 6-215)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Chapter
PLANNING COMMISSION   1
CHAPTER 1: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
2-1-1: Commission Created; Membership
2-1-2: Organization; Meetings; Officers And Employees
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Act As Zoning Commission
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   A City Planning Commission is hereby created for the City. It shall
consist of five (5) appointive members, all of whom shall be voters of the
City, and the Chair of the City Council and the City Engineer (if any) as ex
officio members.
   B.   The appointive members shall be nominated by the Chair of the Council
and appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council and shall serve
for terms of three (3) years, the terms to end on the first Monday in May. Of
the original appointive members, one shall serve until the first Monday in the
next May after appointment; two (2) shall serve until the first Monday in May a
year later; and two (2) shall serve until the first Monday in May two (2) years
later.
   C.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The members shall
serve without compensation. The City Council may remove members of the City
Planning Commission for cause.
(Prior Code § 12-101)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The City Planning Commission shall elect a Chair, a Vice-Chair, and Secretary,
who shall serve until the first Monday of the next May after their election.
The Secretary need not be a member of the commission. The commission shall
determine the time and place of its regular meetings; and the Chair or any
three (3) members may call special meetings of the commission. The commission
may employ engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other help deemed necessary,
subject to the approval of the City Council. Their salaries and compensation
shall be fixed by the Council, and shall be paid out of the City Treasury as
other salaries and compensation are paid. The necessary legal expenses shall be
paid out of the City Treasury as other legal expenses of the City government
are paid.
(Prior Code § 12-102)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The City Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties prescribed
for it by State law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter prescribed
for it by any other provision of ordinance or law.
(Prior Code § 12-103)
2-1-4: ACT AS ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   The City Planning Commission is hereby appointed the Zoning Commission
of the City, and the City Planning Commission shall have the powers of a Zoning
Commission as provided by State law. Whether exercising the powers of a
Planning Commission or the powers of a Zoning Commission, it shall be legally
one board known as the City Planning Commission.
   B.   Exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the City Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a Zoning Commission by State law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable State law to such authorities.
(Prior Code § 12-104)
TITLE 3: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Chapter
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS   1
SALES TAX   2
UTILITY TAX   3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE   4
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES CHARGE   5
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Section
3-1-1: Depositories Designated; Funds Deposited
3-1-2: Funds Secured
3-1-3: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
3-1-4: Purchases Of Goods, Services And Capital
3-1-5: Competitive Bidding
3-1-6: Surplus Or Obsolete Sales
3-1-7: Payroll Disbursements
3-1-8: Debt Service
3-1-9: Interfund Transfers
3-1-10: Incurring Indebtedness
3-1-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED: FUNDS DEPOSITED:
   A.   Banks and all savings and loan associations in the City which are
incorporated under Federal or State law may be designated as depositories by
the City Council for the funds of the City.
   B.   The City Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by him
in such banks or savings and loan associations.
(Prior Code § 7-101)
3-1-2: FUNDS SECURED:
The deposits of the City shall be secured pursuant to the Security for Local
Public Deposits Act provided by the Oklahoma Statutes (62 OS § 517.1 et seq.)
(Prior Code § 7-102)
3-1-3: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES, for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean services
performed for the City by persons not in the employment of the City, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with said services under express or implied contract. Contractual services
shall include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and
maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical
facilities of the City; and other services performed for the City by persons
not in the employment of the City.
(Prior Code § 7-103)
3-1-4: PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES AND CAPITAL:
   A.   The Mayor shall designate certain individuals as purchasing officers
empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriations. Only these
designated individuals will be empowered to obligate the City.
   B.   For all purchases of goods, services or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service) for which the obligation and
final invoice for the payment of the obligation does not occur within the same
month, purchase orders or contracts shall be prepared and approved, in writing,
by a designated purchasing officer prior to the time the purchase commitment is
made. The approved purchase order or contract shall be forwarded to an officer
or employee charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records
(encumbering clerk) who shall determine that there exists available
unencumbered appropriation for that purpose. Upon such determination, the
encumbering clerk shall attest to the fact in writing. If appropriation is not
available for the proposed purchase or commitment, the purchase or commitment
shall not proceed until budget amendments are authorized to provide sufficient
appropriation.
   Upon approval of the purchasing officer and encumbering clerk, an
encumbrance shall be recorded in the appropriation and expenditure records in
the amount or estimated amount of the commitment.
   These encumbering requirements shall not apply to the following type of
purchases or commitments:
      -   Payroll and payroll related expenses
      -   Utility and telephone services by entities governed by State
Corporation Commission
      -   Insurance contracts
      -   Purchases where the obligation and final invoice are processed in the
same month.
   C.   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services or capital over
$25,000, City Council approval shall be obtained prior to the time the
commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded in the minutes of the
council.
   D.   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of
contract provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately
documenting request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory
delivery of merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by
signing the invoice, claim form, delivery ticket or receiving advice.
   The invoice or claims form, along with the written acknowledgment of
receipt, shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for
processing accounts payable who shall review the invoice for accuracy and
propriety, including comparison to the authorized purchase order or contract,
if applicable.
   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the invoices or
claim forms along with the related supporting documentation shall be submitted
to the Mayor for consideration and approval of payment, along with an
accompanying invoice or claims listing, which shall be approved in writing
Mayor. An invoice approval report or claims listing will be presented to the
City Council for payment authorization.
   E.   Upon approval of the invoices or claims for payment by the City
Council, checks or other payment documents as authorized by State Law (11 O.S.,
Section 17-102) shall be prepared and submitted to the City Treasurer, along
with a copy of the approved invoice or claims listing.
   The Treasurer shall compare the checks or other payment documents to the
invoice or claims listing and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, the
Treasurer and the Mayor shall sign the checks or other documents and prepare
them for distribution. In addition, the Treasurer shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a check or disbursement register.
   F.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred
and paid.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
3-1-5: COMPETITIVE BIDDING NOT REQUIRED:
   A.   The City shall adhere to the provisions of Oklahoma Statutes (2001),
Title 61, Sections 101 et seq. when determining when competitive bidding is
required and the manner in which competitive bids will be obtained.
   B.   ln addition to the requirements of A. above, public trusts created
pursuant to O.S. Title 60, Section 176, of which the City is beneficiary, shall
also follow the competitive bidding provisions of Section 176(g) of Title 60.
(Prior Code § 7-106; amd. Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
3-1-6: SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE SALES:
   A.   Advertisement And Declaration:
      1.   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value
of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) may be sold until the City Council
has declared them surplus or obsolete. Before the Mayor sells any surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided, the
Mayor shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City or in such other manner as is deemed necessary to adequately reach
prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids shall be
sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The Mayor may repeatedly reject all bids and
advertise again and shall ultimately sell such supplies, materials or equipment
to the highest responsible bidder, and if necessary, shall cast lots in case of
a tie to determine to whom to sell.
      2.   The Mayor may sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or
equipment whose total value does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a
single transaction without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding.
(Prior Code § 7-107)
   B.   Council To Declare Surplus Of Obsolete Competitive Bidding: No surplus
or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) may be sold until the Council shall
have declared them obsolete or surplus. Before City personnel sells any surplus
or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided
below, he shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation
in the City or give notice in such other manner as he deems necessary
adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make bids.
All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and
place, except when the sale is by auction. The City Manager may repeatedly
reject all bids and advertise or give notice again. He shall sell such
supplies, materials or equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In
case of a tie, he may sell to either of the bidders tying, or may divide the
sale among two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest responsible
bidder or bidders for cash.
(Prior Code § 7-108)
3-1-7: PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS:
   A.   For all employees and officers of the City, a documented record shall
be maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary and
authorized deductions for each employee or officer.
   B.   For each pay period, a documented record of time worked and leave taken
shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards or logs, for each employee
and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from overtime provisions of the
Fair Labor Standards Act, the record may exclude time worked. Such record of
time worked and leave taken shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by
the employee or officer, supervisor or department head if applicable, and the
Mayor.
   C.   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions, and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the Mayor for review and written approval.
   D.   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll
checks shall be prepared along with checks or wire transfers for payment of
related payroll taxes and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
Direct deposits may be used as an alternative to checks and wire transfers.
   E.   The checks or direct deposit report shall be presented to the City
Treasurer along with the approved payroll statement or register. The Treasurer
shall compare the checks or direct deposits to the payroll statement or
register and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, the Treasurer and the
Mayor shall sign any checks and prepare them for distribution. In addition, the
Treasurer shall prepare or cause to be prepared a check or payment register.
   F.   No payroll related encumbrances are required to be recorded in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
purposes as established by the City Council.
   G.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the
pay period.
   H.   A copy of the payroll statement, register or payroll check register may
be provided to the City Council for informational purposes; however, the City
Council approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll related costs
if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
3-1-8: DEBT SERVICE:
   A.   All long-term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes or lease
purchase obligations, shall only be incurred in the manner provided by law.
   B.   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the bonds
or notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement or
lease purchase contract by the City Treasurer without further approval of the
governing body.
   C.   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchases of goods, services or capital as described in Section(e)
above.
   D.   The City Treasurer shall records or cause to be recorded in the
appropriate journals and ledgers the debt service payments and maintain current
records of the remaining amount of indebtedness.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
3-1-9: INTERFUND TRANSFERS:
   A.   All transfers of resources between funds shall only be made in
accordance with the appropriations provided by the City Council for such
transfers. Such appropriations shall be contained in the original or amended
budget of the City.
   B.   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made by
the City Treasurer without further City Council approval. Such transfers,
however, may not exceed the amount lawfully appropriated.
   C.   The manner of payment of these interfund transfers shall be consistent
with the manner used for the payment of purchases of goods, services and
capital as described in Section(f) above.
   D.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded these interfund
transfers in the appropriate journals or ledgers.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
3-1-10: INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS:
As provided for in Article 10, Section 26 of the Oklahoma Constitution, the
City is prohibited from becoming indebted in any manner for any purpose in an
amount exceeding the amount appropriated by the City Council for such purpose,
without voter approval.
(Ord. 332-23, 8-14-2023)
CHAPTER 2: SALES TAX
Section
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-2-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-2-5: Tax Imposed; Rate; Tax Ordinances And Effective Dates; Sales Subject To
Tax
3-2-6: Purpose Of Revenues
3-2-7: Exemptions
3-2-8: Tax Due Date
3-2-9: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-2-10: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-2-11: Collection By Vendors
3-2-12: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-2-13: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-2-14: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-2-15: Fraudulent Returns
3-2-16: Records Confidential
3-2-17: Amendments
3-2-18: Provisions Cumulative
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF MORRIS SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. 
(Prior Code § 7-201)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Generally: The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 7-202)
   B.   Tax Collector Defined: The term TAX COLLECTOR, as used in this chapter,
means the department of the City or the official agency of the State duly
designated according to law or contract, and authorized by law to administer
the collection of the tax levied in this chapter.
(Prior Code § 7-203)
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
(68 OS § 1350 et seq.)
(Prior Code § 7-204)
3-2-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional City permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code § 7-205)
3-2-5: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; TAX ORDINANCES AND EFFECTIVE DATES; SALES SUBJECT TO
TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate; Sales Subject To Tax: There is hereby levied an
excise tax of three percent (3%) upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts
derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code § 7-208; amd. 2020 Code)
   B.   Ordinances Adopted; Effective Dates:
      Ordinance 194 became effective January 1, 1972, levying a first one cent
($0.01) tax.
      Ordinance 202 adopted March 1, 1976, levied the second one cent ($0.01)
tax.
      Ordinance 21-2, effective May 1, 1982, levied the third one cent ($0.01)
tax.
   C.   Ordinances Amended: The ordinances listed in subsection B of this
section have been amended to reflect 1981 legislative changes in sales tax law.
(Prior Code § 7-201)
   D.   Effective Date Generally: This chapter became effective as to each cent
tax at least thirty (30) days after approval of a majority of the registered
voters of the City voting on the ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 16-112.
(Prior Code § 7-206)
3-2-6: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is the purpose of the first, second and third cent sales tax to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the Municipal government of the
City.
(Prior Code § 7-207)
3-2-7: EXEMPTIONS:
There is hereby exempted from the tax levied by this chapter the gross receipts
or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code § 7-209; amd. 2020 Code)
3-2-8: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State sales tax under the Oklahoma Sales
Tax Code.
(Prior Code § 7-215)
3-2-9: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of the State sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the City sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
City of Morris and the tax collector, in the collection of both the City sales
tax and the State sales tax.
(Prior Code § 7-216)
3-2-10: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code § 7-217)
3-2-11: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor in the City to collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or
an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the City. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 7-218)
3-2-12: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code for
collection of State sales taxes.
(Prior Code § 7-219)
3-2-13: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquency; Statute Adopted: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at
the rates and in amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this chapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim
to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(Prior Code § 7-220)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the City tax
herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the
waiver or as applied in administration of the State sales tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 7-221)
3-2-14: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the City sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the State
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 7-222)
3-2-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine and imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 7-223)
3-2-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the City sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code, 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the City
sales tax as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code § 7-224)
3-2-17: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the City, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the City Council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the City as provided by law.
(Prior Code § 7-225)
3-2-18: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of City ordinances.
(Prior Code § 7-226)
CHAPTER 3: UTILITY TAX
Section
3-3-1: Tax Levied
3-3-2: Application Of Tax; Exception
3-3-3: Payment Of Tax
3-3-4: Failure To Pay Tax
3-3-5: Tax Constitutes Lien
3-3-1: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas and electricity in
the City, which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license,
occupation, or excise tax levied by the City, all as provided by State law.
(Prior Code § 7-401)
3-3-2: APPLICATION OF TAX; EXCEPTION:
The tax levied under this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations, or corporations engaged in business of furnishing gas or
electricity within the City limits, except that it shall not apply to any
person, firm, association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise
from the City.
(Prior Code § 7-402)
3-3-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Gas: The tax levied under this chapter on gas receipts shall be levied
for a term of not less than one year and shall be payable monthly and placed in
the General Revenue Fund of the City.
(Prior Code § 7-403)
   B.   Electricity: The tax levied under this chapter on electricity receipts
shall be levied for a term of not less than one year and shall be payable
monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the City.
(Prior Code § 7-404)
3-3-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when levied
shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the City and in
addition thereto, an action may be maintained against the person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code § 7-405)
3-3-5: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the City of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the City limits.
(Prior Code § 7-406)
CHAPTER 4: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
Section
3-4-1: Fee Levied
3-4-2: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees Or Taxes
3-4-1: FEE LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
City in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the City to compensate the City for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the City. The inspection fee and charge
shall be on a calendar year basis and shall be due and payable to the City on
or before June 1 in each year for the whole of the calendar year next preceding
the date and shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from the General
Revenue Fund of the City.
(Prior Code § 7-301)
3-4-2: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES OR TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorum taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the City is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the City.
(Prior Code § 7-302)
CHAPTER 5: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES CHARGE
Section
3-5-1: Emergency Medical Services Charge Imposed
3-5-2: Billing And Payment
3-5-3: Duty Of Person Contracting For Water Service
3-5-4: Violation And Penalty
3-5-5: Effective Date
3-5-1: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES CHARGE IMPOSED:
   A.   To provide funds for the “Emergency Medical Service, a Trust (Okmulgee
County, Oklahoma)”, there is hereby established an emergency medical services
charge whereby each family unit in the City shall be levied and assessed a
monthly charge each month of five dollars ($5.00) and for each additional
family unit over one located on the same premises there shall be an additional
charge of five dollars ($5.00)
   B.   The term “family living unit” shall include, but is not limited to,
single-family residences, single- family living units in duplexes, apartments
and other multi-family dwellings, but shall not include hotels, motels, or
rooming houses. Hotels, motels or rooming houses shall be charged five dollars
($5.00) per month for each rooming unit within the hotel, motel or rooming
house. Combinations of any of the above shall be charged on a combination basis
of the types of unit or units so combined.
(Ord. 316-19, 2-11-2019)
3-5-2: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Billings for the emergency medical services charges established in
section
3-5-1 of this chapter shall be made on the monthly water bills, and shall be
governed by the same rules and regulations that govern the payment of water
bills. The fee for water services will not be accepted without payment for the
emergency medical services charge. Deposits made by the users of City water
required to guarantee payment of water bills may and shall be applied to
“payment of defaulted emergency medical services charges”. Provided, however,
that each person or persons contracting for water service shall have the right
of prepayment of said charge by paying in lump sum the balance of the amount to
be charged and assessed during the remainder of any fiscal year, if said charge
can reasonably be ascertained.
   B.   The City Treasurer shall, monthly, pay over and transfer to the
“Emergency Medical Service, a Trust (Okmulgee County, Oklahoma)”, an amount
equal to the amount of all funds collected from the emergency medical services
charge by the City.
(Ord. 316-19, 2-11-2019)
3-5-3: DUTY OF PERSON CONTRACTING FOR WATER SERVICE:
It shall be the obligation and duty of the person or persons with whom the City
has entered into a contract for water service to keep the City Clerk informed
as to the actual number of family living units and/or rooming units served by
the water service connection.
(Ord. 316-19, 2-11-2019)
3-5-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any inhabitants of the City to wilfully violate any of
the provisions of this chapter so as to avoid, or attempt to avoid, payment, in
full or in part, of the emergency medical services charge established in
section
3-5-1 of this chapter, levied and assessed. Any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), including costs, and shall
be punished as such.
(Ord. 316-19, 2-11-2019)
3-5-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and charges provided for herein effective
with the monthly Municipal water bills assessed and billed for the month of
March 2019.
(Ord. 316-19, 2-11-2019)
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Chapter
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS   1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (RESERVED)   2
ITINERANT SALES   3
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
4-1-1: License Tax Levied On Certain Occupations; Exception
4-1-2: Payment Of Tax; License Issuance; Term
4-1-3: Separate Licenses Required
4-1-4: Display Of License
4-1-5: Duplicate License
4-1-6: Pool And Billiard Halls; Amusement Centers
4-1-7: Fee For Fortune Telling Prohibited
4-1-8: Sound Trucks, Permits
4-1-9: Short Weights And Measures Prohibited
4-1-10: Revocation Of License
4-1-11: Penalty
4-1-1: LICENSE TAX LEVIED ON CERTAIN OCCUPATIONS; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A license tax is hereby levied on every person engaging
in, exercising, or pursuing any of the following businesses, professions,
trades, occupations, or privileges in the City, in the amounts respectively
indicated:
      1.   Pawnshops: For each pawnshop, fifty dollars ($50.00) per year. The
pawnshop must have a permit from the State if it is subject to paying sales
taxes in order to do business in the City.
      2.   Itinerant Shows: For each itinerant show, exhibition, or
entertainment of any kind which charges admission, including all activities
under its auspices, fifty dollars ($50.00) per day. This subsection shall not
apply to circuses, street fairs, and carnivals, nor to any athletic exhibition
given by public or private schools, nor to any event given under the auspices
of a local nonprofit organization, nor to any event from which all the proceeds
go to some charitable or eleemosynary cause.
      3.   Circuses: For each circus with one or two (2) rings, fifty dollars
($50.00) per day; with more than two (2) rings, seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per day.
      4.   Street Fairs Or Carnivals: For each street fair or carnival,
including all activities under its auspices, fifteen dollars ($15.00) per day
or fifty dollars ($50.00) per week.
      5.   Shooting Galleries: For each shooting gallery, skill or strength
game, or game of chance, such as knife boards, rag or wooden images or other
thing or things at which rings, balls, or other things are thrown, pitched, or
shot, lung testing or striking machine, or similar device, five dollars ($5.00)
per day, or fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. This subsection shall not apply
to games under the auspices of street fairs, carnivals, and circuses, nor to
family recreation halls or arcades as defined in section 
4-1-6 of this chapter.
      6.   Ferris Wheels: For each ferris wheel, merry-go-round, small cars, or
similar apparatus, when not under the auspices of a street fair, civic club,
carnival, or circus, five dollars ($5.00) per day, or fifty dollars ($50.00)
per month.
      7.   Wrestling Matches: For wrestling matches, professional, ten dollars
($10.00) per day.
      8.   Itinerant Persons (see also chapter 3 of this title): For each
itinerant person, agent or solicitor selling, offering for sale, taking orders
for, or offering to take orders for, goods, products, wares, patent medicines,
magazines, services, or other things of any kind, excepting wholesalers, and
persons or organizations licensed or regulated by the State of Oklahoma, five
dollars ($5.00) per day. The permit shall expire at nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of
the date issued. No proration of the fee is permitted.
      9.   Dance Halls:
         a.   For each dance hall or place where public dances, public
amusements, theatrical programs or music concerts are held, ten dollars
($10.00) per day. This subsection shall not apply to dances, concerts or
programs held under the auspices of recognized local nonprofit organizations.
It shall be within the discretion of the City Clerk and Chief of Police or his
designee to refuse the issuance of the license if:
            (1)   The kind or character of place of amusement for which the
license is prayed should appear to be contrary to public peace, health, or
safety; or
            (2)   A dance will be in violation of this Code or State law.
         b.   An appeal may be taken from the decision of the City Clerk or
Police Chief or designee to the City Council.
      10.   Pool, Billiard Or Other Recreation Devices Or Halls: For each pool,
billiard or other recreation device or hall, or for each coin-operated
amusement device, as such terms are defined by State law, twenty dollars
($20.00) per year.
   11.   Food Trucks:
      a.   Definitions:
         FOOD TRUCK: As used in this ordinance, means a MOBILE FOOD SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENT as defined by the Oklahoma Department of Health, and does not
include Mobile Retail Food Service Establishment or Push Carts. Vendors
qualifying as Mobile Retail or Push Carts may operate only under special permit
for designated events under 4-1-1.
      b.   License Required: For Food Trucks, only one license is needed for
each establishment, not each employee onsite selling the food.
      c.   Application:
      (1)   Vendors for an organized fair carnival, circus, festival, public
exhibition, or similar gathering are covered under separate permit under 4-1-1.
      (2)   FOOD TRUCKS may be permitted to operate at Food Court locations
designated by the City or at such locations within the City upon private
property. A private location must comply with public access and traffic
regulations, and must provide waste receptacles for public use.
      (3)   A FOOD TRUCK vendor must maintain a current license from the
Oklahoma Department of Health and current Oklahoma Sales Tax Permit at all
times under the City license, each of which must be prominently displayed along
with the City license hereunder obtained at the point of sale on the Food
Truck. In the event a vendor obtains a City license that extends beyond the
term of either Oklahoma health license or tax permit, the vendor must provide a
current copy of the new Oklahoma license/tax permit within 1 week of the
expiration of the former Oklahoma license/permit. A copy of the current
Oklahoma health license and sales tax permit must be presented at the time of
application for a City license. If the Oklahoma license/tax permit is not
turned in, the City license will be terminated.
      (4)   The FOOD TRUCK vendor must comply with all traffic laws and must
maintain a unit in good repair and sanitary condition, operate in a manner
which does not disturb the peace and enjoyment of the community and be self-
contained for all power, water, sanitation and food and non-food waste, and be
fully responsible for the independent location of disposal of grease and
wastewater.
      (5)   Mobile Food Trucks that will be traveling-moving while selling
merchandise must provide identification and background checks of the
individuals acting on behalf of the Food Truck, including proof of age,
address, photograph and a background check.
      (6)   The City shall have the power to revoke, deny, suspend, or modify
any applicant or licensee hereunder for violation of this ordinance or any
other ordinance of City or violation of State law, or significant unresolved
complaints with regards to operation, cleanliness or sanitation.
      (7)   FOOD TRUCK courts will be designated locations open for operation
during specified days and hours. The sites will be open for set up
approximately 5 hours before the start and 5 hours after the end of the
operation hours and all trucks and any other property will need to be removed
on a daily basis. The City reserves the right to limit the number of FOOD
TRUCKS per court date for reasons of limited space or public safety.
      (8)   FOOD TRUCK licenses can be purchased weekly or annually and the
City may take up to 10 business days to approve the license. The City reserves
the right to limit the number of licenses for reasons of limited space or
public safety. The license hereunder shall expire at the end of its term or at
12:01 a.m. the eighth day of a weekly license or on the three hundred sixty-
sixth day of a yearly license.
      (9)   ln the event that the City designates a public way as a Food Court,
all public access to the Food Truck must be on the side of the truck facing
away from vehicle traffic, and if present, along the sidewalk. The Food Truck
cannot block access to a structure for emergency response purposes and cannot
interfere with traffic flow. The City reserves the right to specify exact
locations on public ways and in no event shall a state or federal highway be
used as a Food Truck Court. The City reserves the right to limit the times and
dates upon which Food Truck Courts may be designated in public ways. (Ord. 329-
23, 4-10-2023)
      d.   License Fee: The license fee for each FOOD TRUCK vendor shall be $5
per week or $30 per year.
   B.   State Sales Tax Permit: In order to receive a license under this
chapter, every person, firm or corporation regulated pursuant to this section
is required to possess a valid and current State sales tax permit if such
person, firm or corporation is a vendor subject to collection of sales taxes
under the Sales Tax Code of the City and State (68 OS §§ 1350 through 1354) and
any appropriate State license which may be required to conduct the business or
activity. A copy of this permit or license shall be provided by the applicant
for a license to the City Clerk prior to issuance of the City license.
(Prior Code § 9-101; Ord. 329-23, 4-10-2023)
4-1-2: PAYMENT OF TAX; LICENSE ISSUANCE; TERM:
   A.   Payment Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise,
or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license tax is levied by section
4-1-1 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
Upon making proper application to the City Clerk, the payment of the license
tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by law or
ordinance, the City Clerk shall issue a license therefor. Such license taxes
shall be credited to the General Fund of the City.
   B.   Term; Prorating Tax: Annual licenses shall expire on the April 30 of
the year for which they were issued. When an annual license is issued after May
1 for the remainder of the year to a person just beginning to engage in,
exercise, or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege,
the tax collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal to the
fraction of the year remaining, with a minimum of five dollars ($5.00).
(Prior Code § 9-103)
   C.   License Nontransferable: The assignment or transfer of licenses shall
not be permitted in the City.
(Prior Code § 9-107)
4-1-3: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the City, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall pay
the fee, and secure a separate license for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege.
(Prior Code § 9-104)
4-1-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or if he has no particular
place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall display it to
any person who requests to see it.
   B.   In lieu of the manner of displaying such licenses provided herein, when
licenses are required for coin-operated music or amusement devices, vending
machines, and similar devices and equipment, the license may be placed on or
attached to such device or equipment in such position and manner that it will
be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or attached if the license so states
on its face.
   C.   It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in
this section.
(Prior Code § 9-105)
4-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
   A.   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the City Clerk, on application,
shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time.
   B.   Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall make, and file with
the City Clerk, an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that it
has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the
holder, and that, if believed lost, he has made diligent search for it and has
been unable to find it.
   C.   The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the City Clerk,
shall be two dollars fifty cents ($2.50).
(Prior Code § 9-108)
4-1-6: POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS; AMUSEMENT CENTERS:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of a pool,
billiard, or other recreation hall or amusement center to permit therein
gambling, betting, operation of a lottery or the sale, furnishing, or drinking
of intoxicating and nonintoxicating beverages, disorderly conduct, loud or
disturbing language, noise, or music, profane language, or any other violation
of the laws of the State or of the ordinances of the City or for any person to
engage therein in such place.
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of such a hall to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling, or other contests of physical
strength or for any person to engage therein in such place.
   B.   License Required: Any coin-operated amusement device, including pool
and billiard tables, shall be properly licensed pursuant to State law in order
to operate lawfully in the City.
   C.   Closing Hours: Pool, billiard and other recreation halls or amusement
centers shall be closed between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. each day.
(Prior Code § 9-109)
4-1-7: FEE FOR FORTUNE TELLING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means, or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyance, or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or vocation
within the City, to make any charge therefor, either directly or indirectly, or
to receive any gift, donation, or compensation by any means whatsoever for the
same.
(Prior Code § 9-110)
4-1-8: SOUND TRUCKS, PERMITS:
No person shall play any phonograph or use sound cars or loud-speaking
equipment on the streets of the City, either for advertising, politics, or any
other purpose, without first securing a written permit from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code § 9-111)
4-1-9: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, any food, fuel,
clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh or measure fully as much,
according to standard weights or measures of the State, as the weight or
measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code § 9-112)
4-1-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the City to any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue
any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege may be revoked by the
Council after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for either of the following
reasons:
   A.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by State law or local
ordinance (see title 5, chapter 2 of this Code); or
   B.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code § 9-106)
4-1-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or
occupation, or exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this
chapter, without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any
provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for revocation or
suspension of a license granted.
(Prior Code § 9-113)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   RESERVED
CHAPTER 3: ITINERANT SALES
Section
4-3-1: Consent Or Invitation Required; Exceptions
4-3-2: Sale Of Personal Property On Premises Of Another
4-3-3: Prohibited Acts
Cross-reference:
   See also subsection
4-1-1A8 of this title
4-3-1: CONSENT OR INVITATION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Private Residences: In the exercise of the authority conferred upon the
City by State law, the practice of going to, in or upon the premises of any
private residence in the City by door-to-door salespersons, solicitors,
peddlers and order takers, without the express consent, request or invitation
of the owner or the occupant of such private residence, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the purchase or for the sale of goods, wares, or
publications or merchandise of any description, or the purpose of peddling or
hawking the same, or for the purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is
hereby prohibited.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to sales persons, solicitors,
peddlers or order takers representing sales or local nonprofit or charitable
organizations, nor to the sale or soliciting of any order for the sale of milk,
dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs or other farm and garden produce so
far as the sale of the commodities named in this section is authorized by law.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be
punishable as misdemeanor against the City. Any person convicted of violating
any provisions of this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 9-201)
4-3-2: SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PREMISES OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including a civic or
religious organization, to sell, barter, trade or transfer any merchandise or
other personal property of any kind on premises belonging to another without
the consent of the owner or person in control of the premises.
(Prior Code § 9-202)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS;
   A.   Auctions On Streets And Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any person to
hold any public or private auction for sale of property on any of the streets
or sidewalks of the City; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to the
sale of property under any execution or order of any court of the State or of
the United States of America.
(Prior Code § 9-203)
   B.   Sale From Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to sell or offer for sale from any truck, wagon or other vehicle, fruit,
vegetable or other merchandise in or upon the streets or alleys within the
City.
(Prior Code § 9-204)
TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Chapter
HEALTH REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT   1
NUISANCES   2
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES   3
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH   4
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS   5
FOOD AND MILK   6
CHAPTER 1: HEALTH REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
Section
5-1-1: Enforcement By County Health Department
5-1-2: Obstructing Health Officer
5-1-3: Violations
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Anywhere in this chapter where the words “Health Officer” are used, it
shall be construed to mean the Director of the Okmulgee County Health
Department or his duly designated representative.
   B.   It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor and City Council to delegate
the enforcement of the health ordinances of the City as set out in this chapter
and any such decisions rendered under this chapter shall be subject to review
by the Governing Board upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code § 8-401)
5-1-2: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any Health
Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of the
City.
(Prior Code § 8-402)
5-1-3: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code § 8-403)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation.
(Prior Code § 8-404)
CHAPTER 2: NUISANCES
Section
5-2-1: Nuisance Defined
5-2-2: Persons Responsible
5-2-3: Time Does Not Legalize
5-2-4: Remedies Against Nuisances
5-2-5: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
5-2-6: Nuisance Unlawful
5-2-7: Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
5-2-8: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-2-9: Health Nuisances; Abatement
5-2-10: Sanitary Facilities Required; Nuisance
5-2-11: Procedures Cumulative
5-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
   A.   A NUISANCE is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or
is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
Provided however, this definition shall not apply to pre-existing agricultural
activities.
   B.   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   C.   Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this section is a
private nuisance.
(Prior Code § 8-301)
5-2-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code § 8-302)
5-2-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code § 8-303)
5-2-4: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 8-304)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections
14 and 15; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 8-305)
5-2-5: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Enumeration Of Public Nuisances: In addition to other public nuisances
declared by other sections of this Code or law, the following are hereby
declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Intoxicating Liquor: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
intoxicating liquor in violation of the State law or ordinances of the City; or
keeping of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or
furnished in violation of the State law or ordinances of the City.
      3.   Obscene Pictures, Places: The exposure, display, sale or
distribution of obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers,
documents or objects; or the keeping of a place where such are exposed,
displayed, sold or distributed.
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   Place Of Prostitution: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Place For Unlawful Activities: The keeping of a place where
activities in violation of State law or City ordinances are practiced or
carried on.
      7.   Unlawful Public Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in
violation of the ordinances of the City; or the keeping of a place where such
dances are held.
      8.   Loud Noises: The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises.
      9.   Interference With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
wireless reception by others.
      10.   Interference With Pedestrian Or Vehicular Traffic On Streets Or
Sidewalks: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance.
      11.   Water Or Snow Falling From Buildings: Permitting water or other
liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or structure
upon any street or sidewalk.
      12.   Contaminated Water: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety.
      13.   Weeds; Animal Carcasses: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be,
breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease-causing germs; and
the premises on which such exist.
      14.   Dangerous Buildings: Any building or structure which is dangerous
to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
      15.   Dangerous Pit Or Hole: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      16.   Fire Or Explosive Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      17.   Dangerous Occupation Or Activity: Any occupation or activity which
endangers the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      18.   Vehicle Stored Without Current License Plate In Residence District:
Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any trailer
without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on the
public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district.
      19.   Annoying Animal Conditions: Any stable or other place where animals
are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the City, by
reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack
of sanitation.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The enumeration of certain public nuisances
listed in subsection A of this section shall be cumulative and not limit other
provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in
more general or more specific terms.
(Prior Code § 8-307)
5-2-6: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the City or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the City.
(Prior Code § 8-310)
5-2-7: POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
   A.   City Power: As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the City
has power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its
corporate limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks
and the public water supply outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is
practical to do so, the City has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance
after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can
be done.
(Prior Code § 8-306)
   B.   Summary Abatement Procedure:
      1.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the City government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
      2.   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the City
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector the Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit, through or
with the consent of the Mayor, to the City Council, a statement as to the
existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the City or law, and a
request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself, the Health
Officer, any Council member or any resident or residents of the City may submit
such a statement and request a recommendation to the Council.
      3.   The Council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a
nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the
Council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and
other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the
Council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if such
notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and
other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a
police officer if their names and addresses are known; but if the names or
addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published
in a paper of general circulation within the City.
      4.   If the Council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance to
abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the Council shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it
abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 16. The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the City
collectible as other debts to the City may be collected.
(Prior Code § 8-308)
5-2-8: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the City
may bring suit in the District Court of Okmulgee County, as provided in 50
Oklahoma Statutes section 17.
(Prior Code § 8-309)
5-2-9: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011,
the Health Officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any
private premises in the City to remove from such premises, at his own expense,
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health within twenty four (24)
hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a failure to do so
shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be in writing and may be served
personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent
thereof, by the Health Officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be
left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known
and within the State. If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the State, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the City.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the City Clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other City utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the City water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added
and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same regulations relating
to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant
is not a user of any City utility service, such cost, after certification to
the City Clerk, may be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the
City may be collected.
(Prior Code § 8-311)
5-2-10: SANITARY FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings ascribed to them herein:
   HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   B.   Sanitary Facilities Required: Every owner of a residence or other
building in which humans reside, are employed or congregate within the City
shall install, equip and maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal
of human excrement by use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy.
The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water closet
type when located within two hundred feet (200') of a sanitary sewer and
accessible thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system or the pit privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy
may be used in such cases only if it meets the standards of and is approved by
the State Health Department.
   C.   Disposal Of Human Excrement: All human excrement disposed of within the
City shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets and privies of the type
provided for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within
the City to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner,
or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the City in any other
manner.
   D.   Sanitation Of Privies: All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at
all times, and the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all
times when the privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or
anything other that human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a
privy. No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or
other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or
sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be
prescribed by the Health Officer.
   E.   Declaration Of Nuisance; Abatement: All facilities for the disposal of
human excrement in a manner different from that required by this section and
all privies and closets so constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger
the public health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt
with and abated as such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of
an offense, and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate
offense.
(Prior Code § 8-312)
5-2-11: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative onto any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code § 8-313)
CHAPTER 3: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES
Section
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: City-Owned Properties Designated As Tobacco-Free
5-3-3: Smoking In Certain Places Prohibited; Exceptions
5-3-4: Measures To Prevent Smoking In Public Places
5-3-5: Penalties
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EDUCATIONAL FACILITY: A building owned, leased or under the control of a public
or private school system, college or university.
HEALTH FACILITY: An entity which provides health services, including, but not
limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, long-term care facilities, kidney disease
treatment centers, health maintenance organizations and ambulatory treatment
centers.
INDOOR WORKPLACE: Any indoor place of employment or employment-type service for
or at the request of another individual or individuals, or any public or
private entity, whether part-time or full- time and whether for compensation or
not. Such services shall include, without limitation, any service performed by
an owner, employee, independent contractor, agent, partner, proprietor,
manager, officer, director, apprentice, trainee, associate, servant or
volunteer. An INDOOR WORKPLACE includes work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any
other spaces used or visited by employees, and all space between a floor and
ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows,
regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to such indoor workplace at any
given time, whether or not work is being performed.
MEETING: A meeting as defined in the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act (25 OS § 301 et
seq.)
PUBLIC BODY: A public body as defined in the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed indoor area where individuals other than employees
are invited or permitted.
RESTAURANT: Any eating establishment regardless of seating capacity.
SMOKING: The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other
lighted smoking device.
STAND-ALONE BAR, STAND-ALONE TAVERN, AND CIGAR BAR: An establishment that
derives more than sixty percent (60%) of its gross receipts, subject to
verification by competent authority, from the sale of alcoholic beverages and
low-point beer and no person under twenty one (21) years of age is admitted,
except for members of a musical band employed or hired as provided in paragraph
2 of subsection B of section 537 of title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes and that
is not located within, and does not share any common entryway or common indoor
area with, any other enclosed indoor workplace, including a restaurant.
(Ord. 294-11, 10-19-2011)
5-3-2: CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES DESIGNATED AS TOBACCO-FREE:
   A.   Tobacco Defined: The term, TOBACCO is defined as cigarettes, cigars,
pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco and all other kinds and forms of tobacco
prepared in such a manner to be suitable for chewing, smoking, or both, and
includes e-cigarettes/vaping devices or any other product packaged for smoking
or the simulation of smoking.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section that the City promotes
public health by decreasing citizens’ exposure to secondhand smoke and creates
tobacco-free environments for employees and citizens through regulation of all
City-owned or operated property, and is enacted under the police powers of the
City to provide for public health, welfare, and safety.
   C.   Tobacco-Free Designation: All premises and properties including
buildings, facilities, City vehicles, equipment, City parks, trails, outdoor
facilities, playgrounds, and sports areas owned or operated by the City are
designated as tobacco-free.
   D.   Signs Posted: “No Smoking/Tobacco Use” signs shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted by the City on City-owned or operated properties where
smoking/tobacco use is prohibited.
   E.   Enforcement:
      1.   This section shall be enforced by the Office of the Mayor or an
authorized designee. Any citizen who desires to report a violation under this
section may initiate enforcement with the Office of the Mayor.
      2.   This section authorizes enforcement by the City and is not intended
to create any private action for enforcement or violation.
(Ord., 2-10-2014)
5-3-3: SMOKING IN CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
A. Prohibited Places: Except as specifically provided in the Smoking in Public
Places and Indoor Workplaces Act (63 OS § 1-1521 et seq.), no person shall
smoke in a public place, in any part of a zoo to which the public may be
admitted, whether indoors or outdoors, in an indoor workplace, in any vehicle
providing public transportation, at a meeting of a public body, in a nursing
facility licensed pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act (63 OS § 1-1900.1 et
seq.), or in a childcare facility licensed pursuant to the Oklahoma Child Care
Facilities Licensing Act (10 OS § 401 et seq.) A nursing facility licensed
pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act may designate smoking rooms for residents
and their guests. Such rooms shall be fully enclosed, directly exhausted to the
outside, and shall be under negative air pressure so that no smoke can escape
when a door is opened and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the
building.
   B.   Educational Facilities:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, an educational
facility which offers an early childhood education program or in which children
in grades kindergarten through twelve (12) are educated shall prohibit smoking,
the use of snuff, chewing tobacco or any other form of tobacco product in the
buildings and on the grounds of the facility by all persons including, but not
limited to, full-time, part-time, and contract employees, during the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M., during the school
session, or when class or any program established for students is in session.
      2.   Career and technology centers may designate smoking areas outside of
buildings, away from general traffic areas and completely out of sight of
children under eighteen (18) years of age, for use by adults attending training
courses, sessions, meetings or seminars.
      3.   An educational facility may designate smoking areas outside the
buildings for the use of adults during certain activities or functions,
including, but not limited to, athletic contests.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit
educational facilities from having more restrictive policies regarding smoking
and the use of other tobacco products in the buildings or on the grounds of the
facility.
   C.   Private Residences: A private residence is not a “public place” within
the meaning of the Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act; except,
that areas in a private residence that are used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation are "public places" within the meaning of
the Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces Act.
   D.   Smoking Rooms Allowed: An employer not otherwise restricted from doing
so may elect to provide smoking rooms where no work is performed except for
cleaning and maintenance during the time the room is not in use for smoking,
provided each smoking room is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the
outside in such manner that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking
area. No exhaust from a smoking room shall be located within fifteen feet (15')
of any entrance, exit or air intake. If smoking is to be permitted in any space
exempted in subsection E of this section or in a smoking room pursuant to this
subsection, such smoking space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor
space or, if it shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the
smoking space shall be fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with
no air from the smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under
negative air pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking
area when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking
room shall not be exhausted within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or
air intake.
   E.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not prohibit smoking in:
      1.   Stand-alone bars, stand-alone taverns or cigar bars.
      2.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games.
      3.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the guest rooms at a hotel or
other lodging establishment.
      4.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises.
      5.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access.
      6.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access. INCIDENTAL PUBLIC ACCESS means
that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an employee,
present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. It does not
include businesses that depend on walk-in customers for any part of their
business.
      7.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers.
      8.   Workplaces within private residences; except, that smoking shall not
be allowed inside any private residence that is used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation.
      9.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the Armed Forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 U.S.C., section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19), when such
facility is utilized exclusively by its members and their families and for the
conduct of post or organization nonprofit operations except during an event or
activity which is open to the public.
      10.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall
not be allowed within fifteen feet (15') of any exterior public doorway or any
air intake of a restaurant.
      11.   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to
the research or treatment.
      12.   Restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking
areas and designated smoking rooms. Food and beverage may be served in such
designated smoking rooms which shall be in a location which is fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within twenty five
feet (25') of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room shall be subject to
verification for compliance with the provisions of this subsection by the State
Department of Health.
(Ord. 294-11, 10-19-2011)
5-3-4: MEASURES TO PREVENT SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
The State or local governmental agency or the person who owns or operates a
public place shall, at a minimum, do the following in order to prevent smoking
in public places:
   A.   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that smoking is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
   B.   Ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon observation of anyone
violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 294-11, 10-19-2011)
5-3-5: PENALTIES:
When a person is convicted of violating any portion of this chapter, the
Municipal Court shall impose a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first offense within a one-year period, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the second offense within a one-year period, and two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for a third or subsequent offense within a one-year period. Each day a
violation is continuing shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 294-11, 10-19-2011)
CHAPTER 4: WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
Section
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Accumulations Prohibited
5-4-3: Procedure For Removal By City
5-4-4: Hearing And Abatement
5-4-5: Cost Determination; Billing; Levy On Tax Rolls
5-4-6: Administrative Officer Designated; Appeals To City Council
5-4-7: Depositing Rubbish, Weeds Or Trees
5-4-8: Burning Refuse
5-4-9: Removal Of Dead Animals
5-4-10: Littering
5-4-11: Unauthorized Removal Of Garbage Or Rubbish
5-4-12: Junkyards Prohibited
5-4-13: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have meanings as follows:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the County
Treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for, discarded
or abandoned.
WEED:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code § 8-101)
5-4-2: ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any property owner to allow trash to
accumulate, or weeds to grow or stand upon said property, and each day’s
continuation of such offense shall be deemed a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(Prior Code § 8-102)
5-4-3: PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL BY CITY:
The City Council may declare the existence of a public nuisance due to weeds
and trash, and may cause property within the City limits to be cleaned of trash
and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following
procedure:
   A.   Notice To Property Owner; Abatement:
      1.   At least ten (10) days’ notice shall be given by City staff to the
owner of the property by mail, at the address shown by the current year’s tax
rolls in the County Treasurer’s Office, before the City Council holds a hearing
or takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the
property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as
appropriate, and the notice shall further state that unless such work is
performed within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be
done by the City and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing the City. At the time of
mailing of notice to the property owner, the City shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
      2.   If the property owner cannot be located within ten (10) days from
the date of mailing by the Municipal Governing Body, notice may be given by
posting notice on the property or by publication of notice, one time, not less
than ten (10) days prior to any action or hearing by the City Council. If
summary abatement of a nuisance is anticipated in accordance with section
5-4-4 of this chapter, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication,
shall state that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and after the date
of this notice may be summarily abated by the City Council, and that the costs
of such summary abatement shall be assessed against the owner, and that a lien
may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further
prior notice to the property owner.
   B.   Publication Of Notice: In the event of the publication of notice, the
City shall use a newspaper qualifying under State law for the publication of
legal notices.
   C.   Owner Consent For City Abatement: The owner of the property may give
his written consent to the City authorizing the removal of the trash or the
mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving said written consent, the owner waives
his right to a hearing by the City Council.
   D.   Hearing: A hearing shall be held by the City Council, unless waived by
the property owner as hereinabove provided, to determine whether the
accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the property
to become detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
property.
(Prior Code § 8-103)
5-4-4: HEARING AND ABATEMENT:
   A.   Hearing; Right Of Entry For City Abatement: At the hearing conducted by
the City Council on the date stated in the notice or at such continued hearing
as may be announced, and upon a finding by the City Council that the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the agents of the City are granted the right of
entry on the property and ordered to remove the trash, mow the weeds or grass,
and perform all such necessary duties to abate the nuisance, all as a
governmental function of the City.
   B.   Summary Abatement; Determination Of Cost: If a notice is given by the
City Council to a property owner ordering the property within the City limits
to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with
the procedures provided for in subsection A of this section, any subsequent
accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the property
occurring within a six (6) month period is also declared to be a nuisance and
may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At
the completion of each abatement, the City shall notify the property owner of
the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property
owner may request a hearing on the issue of the costs within ten (10) days
after the date of mailing the notice. Unless otherwise determined at the
hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as
hereafter provided.
(Prior Code § 8-104)
5-4-5: COST DETERMINATION; BILLING; LEVY ON TAX ROLLS:
   A.   Statement Of Cost:
      1.   The City Council shall determine the actual cost of cleaning and
mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property owner at the address
shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the County Treasurer's Office a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment.
      2.   If the cleaning and mowing are done by the City, the cost to the
property owner for said cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance and equipment required.
      3.   If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and most advantageous bidder.
   B.   Itemized Report Of Costs:
      1.   Upon completion of the work ordered to be performed to abate the
nuisance, the Mayor shall determine the cost thereof through the creation of a
report. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract. The costs of abatement
shall be set at two hundred dollars ($200.00) per hour of mowing time, with a
minimum charge of one hour per lot. This cost has been legislatively determined
to be generally accurate, through an examination of the following cost factors:
         a.   The costs of labor expended by City officials in the
investigation, examination, and determination of public nuisances.
         b.   The prorata capital costs of vehicles used by City officials.
         c.   Maintenance and repair of vehicles, equipment, and tools used by
City health officials and the City Inspection Department.
         d.   Secretarial time and clerical time devoted to enforcement effort.
         e.   The costs of notice, including stationery, postage, and related
items.
         f.   The costs of photography.
         g.   The costs of labor expended by City employees in cleaning trash,
mowing of weeds, or other abatement procedures.
         h.   Prorata capital costs of equipment and tools used in the
abatement process.
         i.   Fuel for all vehicles, all equipment, and all power tools.
         j.   Costs of clerical time expended in the collection by the City of
the costs of abatement from the landowners.
         k.   Costs of administering the program and supervising the employees
actually performing the inspection, evaluation, reporting, clerical, and
abatement work.
         l.   Miscellaneous costs involved in the abatement of the property.
      2.   In the event the Mayor determines the standard charge is
inappropriate, the Mayor shall file a separate report with the City Council,
itemizing the costs for each such tract; the Council shall examine the report
and make a final determination of the total actual costs of work. The City
Clerk is hereby authorized to forward a statement of the monies due and to
demand payment thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the
owner of the property at the address shown on the current tax rolls in the
Office of the County Treasurer.
   C.   Nonpayment; Lien: If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from
the date of the mailing of the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer and the
same shall be levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as
other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At any time prior to collection, the City may pursue any civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if
any, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and directing discharge of the lien.
(Prior Code § 8-105)
5-4-6: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER DESIGNATED; APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council may designate that any and all duties and powers prescribed
for the hearing referenced in this chapter to be performed by the City Council
may be delegated by resolution to be assumed and carried out by an official of
the Council's choosing. Provided, that any aggrieved property owner shall have
a right to appeal any order of the designated official to the City Council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
(Prior Code § 8-106)
5-4-7: DEPOSITING RUBBISH, WEEDS OR TREES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish,
trash, slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other
refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or
watercourse, or upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the
City.
(Prior Code § 8-113)
5-4-8: BURNING REFUSE:
   A.   It is unlawful to wilfully burn any trash or refuse or any type
material within the City.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash, wastepaper, rubbish or
refuse except under a permit issued by the State Health Department or U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, or upon permit issued by the City Fire Chief.
(Prior Code § 8-114)
5-4-9: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the City shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code § 8-115)
5-4-10: LITTERING:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, LITTERING is defined as throwing
any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin can, bottles or any other object or
substance whatever upon the public streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of
the City or upon any real property owned or occupied by another.
   B.   Unlawful Generally: It is unlawful for any person to litter.
(Prior Code § 8-116)
   C.   From Automobiles: It is unlawful for any person to throw from any
automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the City any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever.
(Prior Code § 8-117)
   D.   Accumulation On Property:
      1.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
trash, wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or
disposed of objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so
occupied or rented to such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash,
wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of
objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements
or otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender.
(Prior Code § 8-118)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
8-1-3 of this Code
5-4-11: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF GARBAGE OR RUBBISH:
It is unlawful for any person, unless authorized to do so by the City, to
remove from any premises situated in the City or to transport through the
streets, alleys or public places of the City any garbage or rubbish.
(Prior Code § 8-119)
5-4-12: JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, a JUNKYARD is hereby defined as a
place where rubbish, scrap iron, junk pipe, junk rope or old or worn out
automobiles or old and worn out casings and other junk and refuse are kept,
stored, piled or scattered over the ground or premises.
   B.   No junkyard may be located in the City limits.
(Prior Code § 8-120)
5-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 8-121)
CHAPTER 5: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Section
5-5-1: Legislative Intent
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Report Hazardous Conditions To City
5-5-4: Notice Of Hearing To Owner And Mortgagee
5-5-5: Hearing By Council; Order Of Removal
5-5-6: Notice Of Lien And Right Of Entry
5-5-7: Work Done By City Employees Or By Contract
5-5-8: Cost Determination; Statement
5-5-9: Release Upon Payment; Failure To Pay; Lien
5-5-10: Civil Remedy; Discharge Of Lien
5-5-11: Nuisance Abatement Permitted
5-5-12: Securing Of Dilapidated Building
5-5-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the City Council to conform
hereby to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 22-112 and 22-112.1.
(Prior Code § 8-501)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the County
Treasurer.
(Prior Code § 8-502)
5-5-3: REPORT HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS TO CITY:
   A.   Report To City Clerk: Any officer or employee of the City who discovers
an apparent dilapidated building upon any premises within the limits of the
City which appears to him to be a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public and community shall report such condition to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code § 8-503)
   B.   Report Placed On Council Agenda: Upon receiving a report as described
in subsection A of this section, or upon the receipt of equivalent information
from a reliable source, the City Clerk shall place upon the agenda of the City
Council for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date of meeting, such
as will permit giving the notices prescribed by statutory law, the question of
whether such structure, by reason of neglect or injury, lacks necessary repairs
or is otherwise in a state of decay or partial ruin such as to constitute a
hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general public and community or
a fire hazard to other property.
(Prior Code § 8-504)
5-5-4: NOTICE OF HEARING TO OWNER AND MORTGAGEE:
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, the City Clerk shall give
written notice to the owner of the property of such hearing by posting a copy
of the notice on the property to be affected and by forwarding a copy of the
notice by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to the property owner
at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the Office of the
County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as
shown by the records in the Office of the County Clerk, to the last known
address of the mortgagee.
(Prior Code § 8-505)
5-5-5: HEARING BY COUNCIL; ORDER OF REMOVAL:
Upon the date specified in the notice, the City Council shall hear the matter
and shall receive information thereon, including anything which may be
presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by agent or attorney.
Should the Council determine that the property or structure is dilapidated and
has become detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public
and the community, or that the property creates a fire hazard which is
dangerous to other property, then, pursuant to the determination, the Council
may find that the property would be benefited by the removal of such condition
or conditions and may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down and
removed. The Council shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and
completion of the work.
(Prior Code § 8-506)
5-5-6: NOTICE OF LIEN AND RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Upon the Council ordering the tearing down and removal of a dilapidated
building pursuant to section
5-5-5 of this chapter, the City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of lien
with the County Clerk, describing the property, reciting the findings of the
City Council at the hearing, and stating that the City claims a lien on the
property for the destruction and removal costs. The agents of the City are
granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the City if the work is not performed by
the property owner within the dates fixed by the Council.
(Prior Code § 8-507)
5-5-7: WORK DONE BY CITY EMPLOYEES OR BY CONTRACT:
The work ordered to be performed under section
5-5-5 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the City under
supervision of the Mayor, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best
bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts by
public bid.
(Prior Code § 8-508)
5-5-8: COST DETERMINATION; STATEMENT:
Upon completion of the work ordered to be performed pursuant to section
5-5-5 of this chapter, the Council shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by certified
mail, with return receipt requested, to the property owner. In addition, a copy
of the statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address provided
in section
5-5-4 of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 8-509)
5-5-9: RELEASE UPON PAYMENT; FAILURE TO PAY; LIEN:
When payment is made to the City for the costs incurred, the City Clerk shall
file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6) months from
the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property, the
City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
County Treasurer. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by
the County Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the
interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the notice
of the lien was filed with the County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the
lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and shall
be prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The
lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid.
(Prior Code § 8-510)
5-5-10: CIVIL REMEDY; DISCHARGE OF LIEN:
Any time prior to collection as provided for in section
5-5-9 of this chapter, the City may pursue any civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk
shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
(Prior Code § 8-511)
5-5-11: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PERMITTED:
Nothing in the provisions of this chapter shall prevent the City from abating a
dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the health, safety or welfare of the general public.
(Prior Code § 8-512)
5-5-12: SECURING OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING:
After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in section
5-5-5 of this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing down and
removal of a dilapidated building, the Council may authorize that such a
building be boarded and secured. BOARDED AND SECURED means the closing,
boarding or locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into
the structure.
(Prior Code § 8-513)
CHAPTER 6: FOOD AND MILK
Section
5-6-1: U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance Adopted
5-6-2: Milk And Milk Products
5-6-1: U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   Ordinance Adopted: The unabridged form of the latest edition of the
“United States Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and
Code” is hereby adopted and incorporated in this Code by reference. Three (3)
copies of the sanitation ordinance and code shall be on file in the Office of
the City Clerk. The sanitation ordinance and code shall govern the definitions,
inspection of food service establishments, the issuance, suspension and
revocation of permits to operate food service establishments, the prohibiting
of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of
this section. In the sanitation ordinance and code, however, all parenthetical
phrases referring to grading and the following subsections shall be understood
to be deleted: subsections H2e, H7 and H8.
   B.   Health Authority: HEALTH AUTHORITY shall mean the Director of the
County Health Department or his designated representative.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code § 8-201)
5-6-2: MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS:
   A.   Milk Ordinance Adopted: Part II of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk
Ordinance 1965, recommended by the U.S. Public Health Service, is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference to govern and regulate the production,
transportation, processing, handling, sampling, examination, grading, labeling
and sale of milk and milk products sold for ultimate consumption within the
City limits or its police jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy
herds and milk plants; the issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers,
haulers and distributors. At least three (3) copies of the Pasteurized Milk
Ordinance shall be filed in the office of the appropriate official. Sections 9,
16 and 17 of the abridged ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by
subsections B and C of this section.
(Prior Code § 8-202)
   B.   Grade Requirements: Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products
shall be sold to the final consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery
stores or similar establishments; provided, that in an emergency, the sale of
pasteurized milk and milk products which have not been graded, or the grade
which is unknown, may be authorized by the health authority, in which case,
such milk and milk products shall be labeled “ungraded”.
(Prior Code § 8-203)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 8-204)
TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Chapter
POLICE DEPARTMENT   1
FIRE DEPARTMENT   2
CIVIL DEFENSE   3
GENERAL OFFENSES   4
   OFFENSES IN GENERAL; PENALTY   4A
   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY   4B
   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC AND PERSONS   4C
   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS   4D
   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY   4E
MINORS   5
ANIMAL CONTROL   6
   DOG AND CAT LICENSING; KENNEL PERMITS; RABID ANIMALS   6A
   ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT   6B
FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION   7
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
6-1-1: Department Created; Chief
6-1-2: Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police,
or Police Chief, appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council and
removable by the Council. The Chief of Police is an officer of the City, and
has supervision and control of the Police Department. All police officers are
officers of the City.
(Prior Code § 13-301)
6-1-2: POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment; General Duties: Police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor subject to approval of the City Council who shall perform such duties as
shall be required of them by the Chief of Police, City ordinances, Federal,
State and County regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance
of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code § 13-303)
   B.   Additional Duties: It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend
and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the
ordinances of the City; to suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies
which may come to their knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve
all warrants, writs, executions, and other processes properly directed and
delivered to them; to apprehend and arrest persons violating Federal or State
law as provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all
respects to perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
The Police Department has charge of and operates the City Jail.
(Prior Code § 13-302)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
6-2-1: Department Created; Chief
6-2-2: Volunteer Department; Number Of Firefighters
6-2-3: Fire Chief And Assistant Chief
6-2-4: Company Officers
6-2-5: Secretary-Treasurer
6-2-6: New Members
6-2-7: Duties Of Department
6-2-8: Bylaws
6-2-9: Rules And Regulations
6-2-10: Answering Calls Outside City Limits
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED, CHIEF:
There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which is the Chief of the Fire
Department or Fire Chief, appointed by the City Council, and removable by the
Council. The Chief of the Fire Department is an officer of the City and has
supervision and control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code § 13-201)
6-2-2: VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; NUMBER OF FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   The Fire Department of the City is a volunteer Fire Department which
has in its employ not more than two (2) full-time salaried firefighters, and
not less than eight (8) nor more than twenty five (25) volunteer firefighters.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code § 13-202)
6-2-3: FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF:
   A.   Fire Chief; Duties: The Chief shall be the head of the department,
subject to the laws of the State, ordinances of the City, and the rules and
regulations herein adopted. The Chief shall be held responsible for the general
condition and efficient operation of the department, the training of members,
and the performance of all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have the
following duties:
      1.   He may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cisterns, and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year to determine their readiness and availability for
firefighting;
      2.   He shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      3.   He shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      4.   He shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in
the community and on the activities of the department; and
      5.   He shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine
its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case.
(Prior Code § 13-203)
      6.   He shall file the appropriate activity report forms with the Office
of the State Fire Marshal on an annual basis. The activity report forms shall
be designed by the State Fire Marshal and shall include, but not be limited to,
the amount of property and vehicle fire loss, types of fires, inspections and
investigations. The report shall include notification of all fire-related
civilian deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction and of fire fighter
deaths in the line of duty and of fire fighter injuries in the line of duty
requiring the services of a hospital or physician or both.
   B.   Assistant Chief, Duties: In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant
Chief on duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in
all respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code § 13-204)
6-2-4: COMPANY OFFICERS:
The company officers shall be selected upon their ability to meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Their knowledge of firefighting;
   B.   Their leadership ability; and
   C.   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code § 13-205)
6-2-5: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
One member elected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-Treasurer. His
duties shall consist of the following:
   A.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   B.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
   C.   Collecting any money due the department by the members.
(Prior Code § 13-206)
6-2-6: NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   B.   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation period, must
be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code § 13-207)
6-2-7: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention and, unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of
persons from fire and explosion in theaters, stores, and other public
buildings.
(Prior Code § 13-209)
6-2-8: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings,
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
   D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in
succession or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will
be expelled from the Fire Department rolls.
   E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the City for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   F.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him will be expelled from the rolls.
   G.   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be expelled from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      5.   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code § 13-208)
6-2-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council, by motion or resolution, may adopt rules and regulations
governing the Fire Department. All firefighters shall be of legal age, in good
health, and residents of the City.
(Prior Code § 13-210)
6-2-10: ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   The Fire Department, in accordance with any regulations the City
Council may prescribe, or if there are no regulations, in the discretion of the
Fire Chief, may respond to calls outside the City limits. In answering calls
outside the City limits or performing fire prevention, rescue, resuscitation,
first aid, inspection or any other official work outside the City limits, the
department shall be considered an agent of the State and acting in a
governmental capacity.
   B.   The City shall not be liable for any act of commission, omission or
negligence in answering, returning from or performing such work outside the
City limits.
(Prior Code § 13-211)
CHAPTER 3: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
6-3-1: Purpose And Duties Of Organization
6-3-2: Department Established
6-3-3: Duties Of Director
6-3-4: Powers Of Director In Emergencies
6-3-5: Compensation; Nonliability Of City
6-3-1: PURPOSE AND DUTIES OF ORGANIZATION:
   A.   A Civil Defense Organization is created for the City to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the City.
   B.   The duties of the Civil Defense Organization are the protection of the
lives and health of the citizens and of property and property rights, both
private and public, and performance of all functions necessary and incidental
thereto.
   C.   The term “civil defense”, when used in this chapter, shall be
synonymous with the term “emergency management”.
(Prior Code § 13-401)
6-3-2: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Civil Defense which shall consist of:
   A.   A Director of Civil Defense who shall be appointed and may be removed
with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   B.   A Civil Defense Advisory Committee. This committee shall consist of the
Mayor as Chair and five (5) members appointed by the Mayor and serving at his
pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a Vice-Chair and
Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the Mayor, and its
function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the
Mayor or the Director of Civil Defense.
(Prior Code § 13-402)
6-3-3: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
The Director of Civil Defense shall be the executive head of the Department of
the Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the Civil Defense
Program of the City. He shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed
for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be the duty of
the Director of Civil Defense as soon as practicable after his appointment to
perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter and
he shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other
bodies and to appoint and designate the Chair or Chief Officer of such bodies
as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall have further duty
and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other
governmental units, including the State and the Federal government. The
Director of Civil Defense is further authorized to formulate written plans and
gather information and keep written record thereof to govern the functions of
the Civil Defense Organization.
(Prior Code § 13-403)
6-3-4: POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES:
   A.   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Director of Civil Defense, after due authorization from the
Mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in
every way with the activities of other governmental agencies or civil defense
organizations. If required by the Mayor, the Director shall have control over
any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating
distress conditions in the City.
   B.   The Director of Civil Defense and other members of the Civil Defense
Organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the State and ordinances of the City during the period of emergency and
shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for violations of
such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code § 13-404)
6-3-5: COMPENSATION; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   All members of the Civil Defense Organization created in this chapter
shall serve without compensation.
   B.   The City shall not be liable for any personal or bodily injury received
by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty.
(Prior Code § 13-405)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A: OFFENSES IN GENERAL; PENALTY
Section
6-4A-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-4A-2: Aiding In An Offense
6-4A-3: Penalty
6-4A-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
City, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code § 10-101)
6-4A-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code § 10-102)
6-4A-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, including articles A through
E, is punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 10-701)
ARTICLE B: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
6-4B-1: Petit Larceny
6-4B-2: Receiving Stolen Property
6-4B-3: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
6-4B-4: Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
6-4B-5: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
6-4B-6: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
6-4B-7: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
6-4B-8: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
6-4B-9: Illegal Entrance
6-4B-10: Throwing Advertising On Street
6-4B-11: Throwing Injurious Substances
6-4B-12: Injury To Plants, Trees, Parks And Streets
6-4B-13: Trespass Prohibited
6-4B-14: Parking On Property Of Another
6-4B-15: Interference With Fire Hydrants
6-4B-1: PETIT LARCENY:
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to
deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the “person” of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit larceny
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code § 10-201)
6-4B-2: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful to buy or receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretense or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or to conceal, withhold, or aid in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   B.   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, buys, receives,
conceals, withholds or aids in concealing or withholding any property which has
been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof.
(Prior Code § 10-202)
6-4B-3: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code § 10-203)
6-4B-4: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code § 10-204)
6-4B-5: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code § 10-205)
6-4B-6: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in the case
where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property.
(Prior Code § 10-206)
6-4B-7: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water, electricity, cable or other electronic transmission belonging to a
public utility (whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to
enable him to consume or use the gas, water, electricity or transmission
without it passing through the meter or any other way so as to evade payment
therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with, or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of any public utility,
including any telegraph, telephone or cable television system.
(Prior Code § 10-207)
Cross-reference:
   See also sections
9-1-6 and
9-1-7 of this Code.
6-4B-8: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the City without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the City, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 10-208)
6-4B-9: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
   A.   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or
into an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or any notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the express or tacit consent
of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another
after having been given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or
person in charge.
(Prior Code § 10-209)
6-4B-10: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code § 10-210)
6-4B-11: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code § 10-211)
6-4B-12: INJURY TO PLANTS, TREES, PARKS AND STREETS:
   A.   Plants And Park Facilities:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the City, or wilfully or
without authority, to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground.
      2.   Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code § 10-212)
   B.   Public Streets And Trees: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the City.
      2.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree.
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the City.
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or substance from any street, road,
alley or other public place in the City; or to cut, break or otherwise injure
any pavement, curb or gutter therein.
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the City Inspector so to do.
Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under the
supervision of the Street Superintendent or City Engineer.
(Prior Code § 10-213)
6-4B-13: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
be defined as follows:
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the Federal, State or Municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner or the
agent or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
"Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
definition.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property.
(Prior Code § 10-214)
6-4B-14: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code § 10-215)
6-4B-15: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the City
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department, to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stopcock belonging to the City.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner to obstruct access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code § 10-216)
ARTICLE C: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC AND PERSONS
Section
6-4C-1: Assault And Battery
6-4C-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-4C-3: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
6-4C-4: Fireworks Regulated
6-4C-5: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
6-4C-6: Firearms And Weapons
6-4C-7: Sound Amplification Systems In Vehicles
6-4C-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   An ASSAULT is any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      2.   A BATTERY is any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the City.
      2.   Any person committing an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the City shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code § 10-501)
6-4C-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Improper Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of
another or others by violent, obstreperous or improper conduct, by loud or
unusual noise, by fighting in public, or by use of obscene, offensive or
abusive language in the presence of another.
   B.   Disturbing Assemblages: It is unlawful for any person to disturb any
place of public assembly, including persons meeting for religious worship, by
making noise in a loud, profane or indecent manner, or by the making of such
noise within the place of assembly, or within hearing distance thereof so as to
penetrate to the interior room or rooms of the assembly.
   C.   Brandishing Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to brandish any
pistol, rifle, shotgun, loaded or fixed blade knife, or any other deadly
weapon, whether loaded or unloaded, at any other person in such a manner so as
to cause the person at who the weapon is directed to be concerned for his/her
immediate safety or for the safety of others.
   D.   Loud Noises: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
disturb the peace and quiet of any residential part of the City by operating,
having operated, or permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether
electric or not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit
loud music, noise or words. This prohibition specifically includes, but is not
limited to, the engine noises of vehicles at such volumes as to penetrate to
the interior of residences at an offensive volume; provided, that it shall not
be unlawful for:
      1.   A civic organization, having first obtained the consent of the City
Council, school board, or County Commission, to operate a loudspeaker or other
such equipment in public places upon such terms and within such hours of
operation as are prescribed by the governmental entity.
      2.   The use of sirens on vehicles functioning as emergency warning
devices, and authorized by or required by applicable law.
      3.   A business or industry to emit sounds that do not exceed sixty five
decibels (65 dB) for a period of eight (8) hours or less in any twenty four
(24) hour period, as measured at the property line of such business or
industry.
(Prior Code § 10-301)
6-4C-3: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   Signs: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
City to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which, in its common
acceptance, is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the City, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   B.   Language Or Literature: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use,
utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or
insulting language or literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code § 10-302)
   C.   Ridiculing Religion: It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish,
distribute or circulate any literature or language within the corporate limits
of the City that casts profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion which, in
its common acceptance, is calculated or where the natural consequence is to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code § 10-303)
6-4C-4: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the
same meaning as provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell
or have in his possession or to discharge, ignite or in any manner aid, assist
or abet in the discharging or igniting of any fireworks or firecrackers of any
size, type or description.
(Prior Code § 10-304)
   C.   Private Displays: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
private displays of 3G or less in size fireworks which are discharged on July
3, 4 and 5, between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
July 3 and 5, and from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until eleven fifty nine
o'clock (11:59) P.M. on July 4. No discharge of any fireworks shall be had on
any property without the consent of the property owner thereof. It is expressly
prohibited to discharge any fireworks or firecrackers within the City limits on
any other day as provided in this subsection. The provisions of this subsection
and subsection B of this section shall also not apply to authorized displays as
provided herein.
(Ord. 313-18, 7-10-2018)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: The possession of fireworks prohibited in this
section within the limits of the City or within any public park of the City
shall be prima facie evidence of an intention to violate the provisions of this
section and shall be deemed an offense. The storage or possession of any
"fireworks", as defined in this section, at wholesale or retail within the
limits of the City or within any public park of the City shall be deemed an
offense. Any violation of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 10-304)
6-4C-5: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the City any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance; except, that gunpowder may be kept in quantities not to exceed five
(5) pounds where the same is securely kept.
(Prior Code § 10-305)
6-4C-6: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Concealed Carry: It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon
or about his person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife,
switch-blade knife, spring-type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line of duty or as may
be permitted by law.
(Prior Code § 10-306)
   B.   Carrying Weapons While Intoxicated: It shall be unlawful for any person
to carry or use shotguns, rifles or pistols in any circumstances while under
the influence of beer, intoxicating liquors or any hallucinogenic, unlawful or
unprescribed drug, and it shall be unlawful for any person to carry or use
shotguns, rifles or pistols when under the influence of any drug prescribed by
a licensed physician if the aftereffects of such consumption affect mental,
emotional or physical processes to a degree that would result in abnormal
behavior.
(Ord. 297-12, 10-9-2012)
   C.   Reckless Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such
actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability
of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious
disregard for the safety of another person.
(Prior Code § 10-307)
   D.   Discharging Firearms, Air Rifles Or BB Guns:
      1.   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the City except
when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
      2.   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the City.
(Prior Code § 10-308)
6-4C-7: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system from
within a vehicle that clearly can be heard at a distance of fifty feet (50') or
more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon direct
line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and base reverberations
are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked or moving on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of the human
voice.
   B.   Prohibited Act: No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system from within the vehicle so that the
sound is plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the
vehicle.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this section that the operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from
operating the sound amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      1.   The system was being operated to a request for medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition.
      2.   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle being used to
protect or preserve the health and safety of any individual.
      3.   The vehicle was owned and operated by the City or public or private
utility company and was being used to construct, repair, maintain, or monitor
one or more utilities.
      4.   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities such as
parades, fireworks displays, organized sports events or other activities that
have been approved by the appropriate City, school, County, State, or Federal
official or body.
(Prior Code § 10-310)
ARTICLE D: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
6-4D-1: Liquor And Drug Related Offenses
6-4D-2: Drug Paraphernalia
6-4D-3: Prostitution And Lewd Conduct
6-4D-4: Disorderly Houses
6-4D-5: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
6-4D-6: Obscenity Regulations
6-4D-7: Vagrancy
6-4D-8: Loitering; Sleeping In Public
6-4D-9: Begging
6-4D-10: Gambling
6-4D-11: Harmful Deception
6-4D-12: False Or Bogus Checks
6-4D-13: Swindling
6-4D-1: LIQUOR AND DRUG RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Public Intoxication And Drinking:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place in the City or private place which is visible to
the public, in a state of intoxication. It is unlawful for any person to drink
alcoholic beverages, as defined by 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103, upon or
in any street, alley, or other public place, or private place which is visible
to the public, within the City. It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to
another any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the City except as legally
prescribed by a physician.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
nonintoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any narcotic or
drug, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or
mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others.
(Prior Code § 10-401)
   B.   Possession; Transportation:
      1.   For the purpose of this subsection, alcoholic beverage shall be as
defined by 37A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to be in possession of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any
public street, road or highway or in any public place within the City limits.
      3.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
alcoholic beverage.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in
the original container which shall not have been opened and from which the
original cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the opened container be
in the rear trunk or rear compartment, or low point beer or strong beer. The
rear trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
(Prior Code § 10-402)
   C.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful:
Please provide appropriate wording changes in subsections C1 through C4 below.
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind
except as permitted by law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport
or in any manner convey from place to place in the City any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code § 10-403)
   D.   Narcotics And Dangerous Drugs:
      1.   Definition: The term CONTROLLED DANGEROUS DRUG shall have the
meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101 for CONTROLLED
DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE.
      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person:
   a.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana, opium, narcotic or
controlled dangerous drug;
   b.   To use, have, or possess marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled
dangerous drug upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or other public
place within the City;
   c.   To use marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled dangerous drug in any
place within the City except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to
practice in the State;
   d.   To loiter about a place where marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled
dangerous drug is sold or furnished illegally; or
   e.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, opium,
narcotic or controlled dangerous drug.
(Prior Code § 10-404)
6-4D-2: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section,  DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means
all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for
use, or fashioned specifically for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the State
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101
et seq., hereinafter referred to as “the Act”, and adopted by reference herein.
The term includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or fashioned specifically for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled dangerous substance or from which a controlled
dangerous substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or fashioned specifically for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled dangerous substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or fashioned
specifically for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is
a controlled dangerous substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or fashioned specifically
for use in identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity
of controlled dangerous substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or fashioned
specifically for use in weighing or measuring controlled dangerous substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or fashioned
specifically for use in cutting controlled dangerous substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or fashioned
specifically for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning
or refining, marihuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or fashioned specifically for use in compounding controlled
dangerous substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or fashioned specifically for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled dangerous substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or fashioned
specifically for use in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances
into the human body;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or fashioned specifically for use in parenterally injecting controlled
dangerous substances into the human body;
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or fashioned specifically for use
in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes.
         j.   Air-driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers;
      13.   All hidden or novelty pipes; and
      14.   Any pipe that has a tobacco bowl or chamber of less than one-half
inch (½") in diameter in which there is any detectable residue of any
“controlled dangerous substance”, as defined in this section, or any other
substances not legal for possession or use;
provided, however, the term “drug paraphernalia” shall not include separation
gins intended for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps used for constructing
electrical equipment, water pipes designed for ornamentation in which no
detectable amount of an illegal substance is found or pipes designed and used
solely for smoking tobacco, traditional pipes of an American Indian tribal
religious ceremony, or antique pipes that are thirty (30) years of age or
older.
   B.   Determining Factors: In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, a court or jury shall consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled dangerous
substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Act;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled dangerous substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled dangerous substances on
the object:
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to any person who intends to use
the object to facilitate a violation of the Act; the innocence of an owner or
of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Act shall
not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use or fashioned
specifically for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which either
state directly or imply that the object is to be used for the consumption of
controlled substances;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object that explain or depict
its use as an object for consumption of controlled substances;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related and lawful items to the community, such
as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object or objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   Use: It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to
use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of this
section.
   D.   Selling: It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent
to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia,
knowingly, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it
will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the Act.
   E.   Advertising: It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects described
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code § 10-421)
6-4D-3: PROSTITUTION AND LEWD CONDUCT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   LETTING PREMISES FOR OBSCENITY: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that it is to be used for the practice of
obscenity or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
   LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that it is to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   LEWDNESS: The performance of an act of sexual intercourse or other sexual
activity with another person, except a spouse, of either sex, for the purpose
of obtaining an orgasm, or to offer to solicit or suggest to another person
such activity.
   PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution or lewdness;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution or act of lewdness;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution or lewdness;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution or lewdness;
      6.   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of lewdness or
prostitution; or
      7.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
or be a party to an act of lewdness in the limits of City.
(Prior Code § 10-405)
6-4D-4: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Definition: A DISORDERLY HOUSE means any structure or vehicle by which
the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by
reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by State Statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the City or Statutes of
this State regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by State Statute
or City ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any State Statute or City ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code § 10-406)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house; no person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code § 10-407)
   C.   Residents Or Visitors: No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into,
or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this
subsection, the City shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct
evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This subsection shall not
apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or
official duties.
(Prior Code § 10-408)
6-4D-5: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the City in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the City in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code § 10-409)
6-4D-6: OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, when used in the section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion; and
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious, literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining.
   B.   Prohibited Obscene Conduct:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material; or
         b.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
         c.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         d.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            (1)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            (3)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            (4)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      2.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not
acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code § 10-411)
6-4D-7: VAGRANCY:
   A.   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the City.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in or wanders about a public or private place for any of the
following purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code § 10-412)
6-4D-8: LOITERING; SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   A person shall not, without lawful reason, between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and sunrise, loiter or wander aimlessly within
the City on the streets, alleys, other public places, or on property of
another.
      2.   A person shall not sleep on any street, or in any other public
place, or on the property of another, without the express or tacit consent of
the owner or person in charge of such place.
      3.   A person shall not loiter on or about the premises of a public
school, or of a public building, or the depot of a public carrier.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine as follows:
 
First offense                $ 75.00 and court costs
Second offense               100.00 and court costs
Third and subsequent offense 125.00 and court costs
 
(Prior Code § 10-413)
6-4D-9: BEGGING:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code § 10-415)
6-4D-10: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         a.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         b.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         c.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         d.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, house, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense against the City for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value.
(Prior Code § 10-416)
   B.   Being In Vicinity Of Gambling Activity: It is unlawful for any person
to be about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling,
whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or
otherwise.
(Prior Code § 10-417)
6-4D-11: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code § 10-418)
6-4D-12: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument
or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or
orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within one hundred eighty (180) days after
same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code § 10-419)
6-4D-13: SWINDLING:
It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or business under
false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other fraudulent act.
(Prior Code § 10-420)
ARTICLE E: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
6-4E-1: Resisting An Officer Or Public Official
6-4E-2: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
6-4E-3: Assault Or Battery Upon Police
6-4E-4: Rescuing Prisoners
6-4E-5: Escape Of Prisoners
6-4E-6: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-4E-7: False Alarms
6-4E-8: False Representation To An Officer; Perjury
6-4E-9: Removal Of Barricades
6-4E-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER OR PUBLIC OFFICIAL:
   A.   City Officers:
      1.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with the Police Chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the City.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
      3.   “Resisting an officer” is the intentional opposition or resistance
to, or obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting
in his official capacity.
      4.   The words “obstruction of” shall, in addition to their common
meaning, include:
         a.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
         b.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he is under arrest; or
         c.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his
identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code § 10-601)
   B.   Public Officials: It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully
to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the City in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties.
(Prior Code § 10-610)
6-4E-2: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the City making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the City or with State or Federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the City to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code § 10-602)
6-4E-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties.
(Prior Code § 10-603)
6-4E-4: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue
or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or
employee of the City having legal custody of the same or other place of
confinement by the City, or to assist such prisoner in any manner to escape
from such prison or custody either before or after conviction, including escape
from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code § 10-604)
6-4E-5: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person confined in a place of confinement by the City,
or working upon the streets or other public places of the City in pursuance of
any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by authority of the City, to
escape or attempt to escape from any such jail, prison or custody.
(Prior Code § 10-605)
6-4E-6: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
City, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the City, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the City without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code § 10-606)
6-4E-7: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code § 10-607)
6-4E-8: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER; PERJURY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the City government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the City.
(Prior Code § 10-608)
6-4E-9: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the City to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code § 10-609)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
6-5-1: Curfew
6-5-2: Prevention Of Youth Access To Tobacco
6-5-1 CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions; Exceptions: A person under seventeen (17)
years of age shall not appear upon or in any street, alley, public park, school
grounds, or other public place between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., unless accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
adult person having the care and custody of the minor. A parent, guardian or
other person having care and custody of such a minor person shall not permit
that minor to appear upon any such place and at such time unless so
accompanied; provided, that if the minor is engaged in any lawful employment,
or attending any official school, religious or governmental function, the
travel to or return from such a function during curfew hours shall be a defense
to prosecution, so long as the travel is without detour or stop between the
location of the function and the residence of the minor. Provided further, that
it is a defense to prosecution if the minor is inside a motor vehicle engaged
in interstate travel, or if the minor is married or otherwise emancipated.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine as follows:
 
First offense                $ 75.00 and court costs
Second offense               100.00 and court costs
Third and subsequent offense 125.00 and court costs
 
(Prior Code § 10-413)
6-5-2 PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO:
   A.   Prohibiting Sale Or Delivery To Minors:
      1.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver license or other government issued photo identification.
      2.   Furnishing To Minors; Employees Handling Tobacco:
         a.   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to sell or
furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under
eighteen (18) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on
behalf of any such person.
         b.   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under eighteen (18)
years of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee’s duties.
      3.   Demanding Proof Of Age:
         a.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient
who is not under eighteen (18) years of age, the failure to subsequently
require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of this subsection A3.
      4.   Defense: No person shall be found guilty of such violation if such
person proves that: a) the individual who purchased or received the tobacco
product presented a license or other government- issues photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was eighteen (18) years of age or
older, and b) the person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device. Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this subsection if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection A4 does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law.
      5.   Unlawful Acts By Minors:
         a.   It is unlawful for a person who is under eighteen (18) years of
age to purchase, receive, or have in their possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent, for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product.
         b.   It shall not be unlawful for an employee under eighteen (18)
years of age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee’s duties.
      6.   Violations; Penalties: When any person is convicted of a violation
of this subsection, there shall be imposed a fine of:
         a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense.
         b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense
within a one-year period following the first offense.
(Prior Code § 10-422)
   B.   Retail Vendors Regulated:
      1.   Posting Of Sign: Every person who sells or displays tobacco products
at retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business
a sign, as specified by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission, stating the following: “IT’S THE LAW. WE DO NOT SELL TOBACCO
PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE”. The sign shall also provide the
toll-free number operated by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission for the purpose of reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth
Access to Tobacco Act (63 OS § 1-229.11 et seq.)
      2.   Notify Employees Of State Law: Every person engaged in the business
of selling tobacco products at retail shall notify each individual employed by
that person as a retail sales clerk that State law:
         a.   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products to any
person under eighteen (18) years of age and the purchase or receipt of tobacco
products by any person under eighteen (18) years of age; and
         b.   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under eighteen
(18) years of age.
      3.   Employee Receipt Of Notice: The notice shall be provided before the
individual commences work as a retail sales clerk, The individual shall signify
that he or she has received the notice required by this subsection by signing a
form stating as follows:
I understand that State law prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco
products to persons under eighteen (18) years of age and out-of-package sales,
and requires proof of age of purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would
conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser or recipient
may be under eighteen (18) years of age. I promise, as a condition of my
employment, to obey the law. I understand that violations by me may be
punishable by fines, suspension or nonissuance of my driver's license. In
addition, I understand that violations by me may subject the store owner to
fines or license suspension.
      4.   Sales Through Vending Machines: It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell tobacco products through a vending machine unless the vending machine
is located:
         a.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that
are not open to the public; or
         b.   In places that are open to the public, but to which persons under
eighteen (18) years of age are not admitted.
      5.   Distribution Of Tobacco Products Or Samples:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco products or product samples to any person under eighteen (18) years of
age.
         b.   No person shall distribute tobacco products or product samples in
or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet
(300') of any playground, school, or other facility when the facility is being
used primarily by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
      6.   Displays Allowing Public Access:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer
for sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the
tobacco product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco
product or an employee or the owner of the store.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection B6 shall not apply to retail
stores which do not admit into the store persons under eighteen (18) years of
age.
      7.   Sales In Original Package: It is unlawful for any person to sell
cigarettes except in the original, sealed package in which they were placed by
the manufacturer.
      8.   Violations; Penalties: When any person is convicted of a violation
of this subsection, the Municipal Judge may impose a fine of:
         a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense;
         b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense; and
         c.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or
subsequent offense.
(Prior Code § 10-423)
   C.   Reports To State: Any conviction for a violation of this section
authorized by the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act and any compliance
checks by a Municipal police officer or County Sheriff shall be reported in
writing to the ABLE Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or
compliance check.
(Prior Code § 10-424; amd. 2020 Code)
   D.   Devices Used In Smoking:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
to another person who is under eighteen (18) years of age any material or
device used in the smoking, chewing, or other method of consumption of tobacco,
including cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of all types,
and other items designed primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco
products.
      2.   When a person violates subsection D1 of this section, the Municipal
Judge may impose a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense.
(Prior Code § 10-425)
CHAPTER 6: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Animals Running At Large
6-6-3: Turning Animals At Large
6-6-4: Pasturing In Public Areas
6-6-5: Certain Livestock Prohibited
6-6-6: Animals Disturbing The Peace
6-6-7: Location And Maintenance Of Stables, Kennels Or Coops
6-6-8: Cruelty To Animals
6-6-9: Inspection Upon Complaint
6-6-10: Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, including articles
A and B, shall have the meanings ascribed in this section, except in those
cases where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the owner,
or a member of his immediate family over twelve (12) years of age, or an agent
of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner’s premises or not.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
VICIOUS DOG OR VICIOUS CAT: A dog or cat which has bitten, or attempted to
bite, any person or another animal without undue provocation, or which attacks,
or barks or growls at or acts as if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a
person or persons, or other animals when not unduly provoked.
(Prior Code § 4-101)
6-6-2: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   No dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall be permitted to run upon
the streets, public places or public ways of the City or upon the property of
persons other than the owners, but shall be confined to the property or
premises of the owners of such dog. Dogs may be permitted upon such streets,
places or public ways and off the premises of the owner or person having the
charge and control of thereof with a substantial leash or chain not to exceed
eight feet (8') in length.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, licensed cats which are not
vicious and which wear a tag as provided by ordinance (see section
6-6A-2 of this chapter), may be at large. It is unlawful for any owner to
permit a licensed cat without a tag as required by ordinance, an unlicensed
cat, or a vicious cat to be at large.
   C.   No owner shall permit any animal owned, harbored, possessed or kept by
him as a pet or otherwise to be at large at any time within the City, except on
real property owned or in the possession of, by rental or otherwise, the owner
or possessor of the pet or animal. Any animal as a pet not on the premises of
the owner as provided in this subsection shall be restrained by a leash by the
owner or person in possession of the pet or animal at all times and in
particular while on the streets or public ways of the City. Any animal running
at large within the City is subject to immediate confinement and disposal after
a period of time as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code § 4-102)
6-6-3: TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large, or in any
manner to turn the animal at large.
(Prior Code § 4-103)
6-6-4: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, Federal, State, City or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code § 4-104)
6-6-5: CERTAIN LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED:
No swine, stallions, jacks or bulls shall be kept within the City.
(Prior Code § 4-105)
6-6-6: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the City any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of or annoys and bothers any person or injures other animals or destroys
property belonging to any person other than the owner of the animal.
(Prior Code § 4-106)
6-6-7: LOCATION AND MAINTENANCE OF STABLES, KENNELS OR COOPS:
   A.   It shall be an offense for any person to maintain any stable, kennel,
or similar establishment wherein animals are kept closer than one hundred feet
(100') from any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for educational or religious or hospital
purposes, or a residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of
the premises upon which such animal is kept. Every building wherein any animal
is kept shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be
kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   B.   Every stable, kennel, pen, or other place wherein an animal is kept or
permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid
of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors. The owner of every
animal shall be responsible for the removal of any excreta deposited by the
owner’s animal(s) on public walks, streets, alleys, parks, recreational areas,
other public areas, or on the private property of another.
(Ord. 296-12, 2012)
6-6-8: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty: It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to pour
on, or apply to, an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the
animal; or knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or
knowingly to neglect an animal belonging to him or in his custody in a cruel or
inhumane manner.
(Prior Code § 4-401)
   B.   Poisoning: It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any dog or
other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Prior Code § 4-402)
   C.   Encouraging Animals To Fight: It is unlawful for any person to
instigate or encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to
attack, pursue or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated
animal; or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code § 4-403)
6-6-9: INSPECTION UPON COMPLAINT:
The Health Officer, upon complaint by any person, shall inspect any structure
or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his own initiative. He may
issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary to the owner of the
animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a
manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a complaint before the
Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this
chapter or of any such reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge
the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code § 4-111)
6-6-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any animal control ordinance or
provision of this chapter, including articles A and B, or who violates, or
refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by the Health
Officer pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, including costs.
(Prior Code § 4-501)
ARTICLE A: DOG AND CAT LICENSING; KENNEL PERMITS; RABID ANIMALS
Section
6-6A-1: Vaccination Of Dogs And Cats
6-6A-2: Dog And Cat Licenses And Tags
6-6A-3: Permits For Kennels, Commercial Animal Establishments
6-6A-4: License And Permit Restrictions
6-6A-5: Dogs Muzzled And Cats Confined
6-6A-6: Killing Vicious Or Rabid Dog Or Cat
6-6A-7: Confinement Of Rabid Animals, Animals That Bite
6-6A-1: VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS:
The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against rabies
by a veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year before May 1
thereof, or, in the case of a pup or kitten, before it is six (6) months old.
The person vaccinating the dog or cat shall furnish the owner a certificate of
vaccination.
(Prior Code § 4-201)
6-6A-2: DOG AND CAT LICENSES AND TAGS:
Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody within the City of a
dog or cat over six (6) months of age shall obtain an annual license as
follows:
   A.   Submitting Application: Written application for licenses shall be
submitted to the City at City Hall and shall include the name and address of
the applicant, a description of the animal, a copy of the rabies certificate
issued by a licensed veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic, proof of sterilization
(if applicable), and payment of the license fee.
   B.   Time For Making Application: Application for a license must be made
within thirty (30) days after obtaining a dog or cat over six (6) months of
age, or within fifteen (15) days of the expiration of the previous license.
   C.   Certified Service Dogs Exempt: License fees shall not be required for
certified service dogs or certified governmental dogs used in law enforcement;
however, all other requirements for a license shall apply; a copy of the
certificate of training for the intended service or an affidavit attesting to
the training shall be included in the application. License fees shall not be
required for animals brought into the City for the sole purpose of a show,
exhibit, fair or similar event, during the duration of the event in question
and for a period of twenty four (24) hours before and twenty four (24) hours
following the duration of the event.
   D.   Collar And Tag Required: Licensed animals shall wear a collar or
harness at all times when off the premises of the owners. The durable tag
issued by the City upon issuance of a license shall be affixed by the owner to
the collar or harness. The failure of an animal to wear a collar or harness
when off the premises of the owner shall be prima facie evidence of the failure
of the owner to license the animal.
   E.   License Fees: The license fee shall be paid annually at the rate of ten
dollars ($10.00) per spayed or neutered dog or cat and thirty dollars ($30.00)
per sexually intact dog or cat.
   F.   License Nontransferable; Term: Any license issued for an animal is not
transferable to any other animal, and should be surrendered upon the death of
the animal for which it was issued. Licenses shall expire on July 1 of each
calendar year.
(Ord. 296-12, 2012)
6-6A-3: PERMITS FOR KENNELS, COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, partnership, corporation, or other entity
shall keep more than four (4) dogs or four (4) cats over the age of six (6)
months without first obtaining a kennel permit in compliance with this section.
   B.   Submission Of Application; Humane Care: Any kennel permit applicant
shall submit the application to the City Hall and shall provide for humane care
of all animals within his/her custody.
   C.   Permit Fee For Establishments: After a permit applicant has shown the
willingness and ability to comply with this article, a permit shall be issued
upon payment of the fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). This fee shall cover
the following:
      1.   Kennel with capacity of fewer than ten (10) dogs or cats.
      2.   Kennel with capacity of ten (10) or more, but fewer than fifty (50),
dogs and cats.
      3.   Kennel for fifty (50) or more dogs and cats.
      4.   Pet shop.
      5.   Riding stable.
      6.   Animal auction.
      7.   Zoological park.
      8.   Petting zoo.
   D.   Term Of Permit; Renewal Applications: The permit period shall expire on
July 1 of each calendar year. Renewal applications may be made as early as one
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the start of the fiscal year, and must
include proof of a current permit at the time of filing for renewal. Persons
applying for a permit during the permit year shall be required to pay a
discounted kennel fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   Separate Enterprises; Separate Permits: Every facility regulated by
this title shall be considered a separate enterprise, requiring separate
permits.
   F.   Kennels For Breeding: Persons operating kennels for the breeding of
dogs or cats may elect to license such animals individually.
   G.   Exceptions: No animal permit fee is required of any veterinary
hospital, animal shelter or government operated zoological park. No permit fee
is required for any unplatted property actually used for agricultural purposes
and containing not less than forty (40) acres.
   H.   City Right To Inspect: It shall be a condition of the issuance of any
permit or license that the City shall be permitted to inspect all animals and
the public portions of the commercial premises where animals are kept at any
time during daylight hours, and shall, if permission for such inspection is
refused, seek a warrant to enforce the inspection. Any search when the premises
is not open for business, or any search during nighttime hours, or any search
of a private residence shall require a warrant.
(Ord. 296-12, 2012)
6-6A-4: LICENSE AND PERMIT RESTRICTIONS:
As to all licenses and permits:
   A.   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within ten (10)
days thereafter, remove the animal from the City or otherwise humanely dispose
of all animals owned, kept, or harbored in accordance with State law. No part
of the permit or license fee shall be refunded.
   B.   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the City shall refuse to issue a permit or license.
   C.   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit or license to operate a commercial animal establishment.
   D.   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a license to own a dog or a cat for a period of at least one year following
conviction.
(Ord. 296-12, 2012)
6-6A-5: DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED:
   A.   When the Health Officer determines and certifies that a dog, a cat or
other animal in the City or within five (5) miles of the City is or was
infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the City, the
City Council, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at large
within the City, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a
period of time to be determined by the Council. Such resolution or an adequate
notice of its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City and shall go into effect on the date following such publication
unless the resolution prescribes a later time.
   B.   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code § 4-205)
6-6A-6: KILLING VICIOUS OR RABID DOG OR CAT:
   A.   Vicious Dog Or Cat: Any person may kill a vicious dog or cat in self-
defense or in defense of another when the dog or cat, without undue
provocation, bites him or the other or attacks, or attempts to bite or attack,
him or the other in such manner that an ordinarily prudent person would be led
to believe that the person toward whom the efforts of the dog or cat are
directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed.
(Prior Code § 4-206)
   B.   Rabid Dog Or Cat: Any person may kill a dog or cat the appearance or
conduct of which is such as would cause an ordinarily prudent person to believe
the dog or cat to be afflicted with rabies.
(Prior Code § 4-208)
6-6A-7: CONFINEMENT OF RABID ANIMALS, ANIMALS THAT BITE:
Any dog, cat or other animal which is suspected of having rabies, or any dog,
cat or other animal which has bitten a person and caused an abrasion of the
skin of the person shall be confined by the owner as follows:
   A.   If the dog, cat or other animal has been properly vaccinated and
licensed, the owner may confine the dog, cat or other animal, isolated from the
public, for a period of ten (10) days or for any term designated by the State
Department of Health;
   B.   If the dog, cat or other animal is not licensed or vaccinated, or if
the owner does not have adequate facilities to properly confine the animal, the
animal shall be seized and confined in some veterinary hospital, and such
confinement shall be for a period of ten (10) days or for any term designated
by the State Department of Health. The fee for the confinement shall be paid in
advance by the owner of the dog, cat or other animal; and
   C.   If the owner of the dog, cat or other animal refuses to confine the
animal under this section, the dog, cat or other animal shall be ordered
confined or destroyed by the appropriate officer of the City. Any animal
ordered destroyed shall be killed by a competent person. The animal's head
shall be furnished to the State Department of Health for rabies observation.
(Prior Code § 4-207)
ARTICLE B: ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT
Section
6-6B-1: Pound Established
6-6B-2: Animal Impoundment; Notice
6-6B-3: Breaking Pound
6-6B-4: Impoundment Fees; Redemption
6-6B-5: Sale Of Impounded Animals
6-6B-1: POUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   A City pound is hereby established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department. It shall be under the immediate control of a pound officer or of
such other person as may be officially designated.
   B.   The person in charge of the pound shall provide proper sustenance for
all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane manner.
   C.   The City may contract with another agency for the use of a pound
maintained by the agency.
(Prior Code § 4-301)
6-6B-2: ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE:
   A.   The pound officer, a police officer, or such other officer or employee
of the City as the City may authorize:
      1.   Shall take into custody and impound any dog, cat or other animal
running at large in violation of any provision of the ordinances of the City;
      2.   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises
to take such dog, cat or other animal into custody; and
      3.   If with reasonable effort a dog, cat or other animal illegally at
large cannot be caught, may kill it, whether on or off private premises.
   B.   Any other person may take such dog, cat or other animal into custody
and present it to the authority in charge of the pound for impounding. The City
Council, by motion or resolution, may provide for the payment of rewards to
private persons who present such animals at the pound if funds exist for that
purpose.
   C.   Upon the impounding of any dog, cat or other animal found running at
large, diligent effort shall be made by the pound officer or appropriate agents
of the City to ascertain the owner of the animal. If the owner can be
ascertained, notice of the impounding of the animal shall be given either by
mail or by telephone to the owner’s usual place of residence. The owner may
redeem the animal at the pound officer’s place of confinement as provided in
this article.
   D.   No animal taken into custody as provided in this section shall be
destroyed or permanently disposed of prior to the expiration of three (3) days
from the date of taking the animal into custody, and then only after notice
thereof has been given as provided in subsection C of this section or by
posting a description of the animal and the date it was taken into custody at
least two (2) days prior to disposing of the animal.
(Prior Code § 4-302)
6-6B-3: BREAKING POUND:
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any animal
therefrom;
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the City any
animal taken into custody as provided by this article; or
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this article.
(Prior Code § 4-303)
6-6B-4: IMPOUNDMENT FEES; REDEMPTION:
   A.   Payment Of Fees:
      1.   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, shall be determined by the Council by motion or resolution.
      2.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the above fees to
the City Clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge of the
pound before the latter releases the animal.
   B.   Redemption Of Dog Or Cat:
      1.   Any person redeeming a dog or cat not licensed as required by
article A of this chapter shall pay the required license fee to the City Clerk
and secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in
charge of the pound before the latter releases the dog or cat. If a dog or cat
has been licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge of the pound
shall require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the dog or cat
before releasing it.
(Prior Code § 4-304)
      2.   An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may redeem the animal,
prior to its sale or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the required
fees against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be
prescribed in this article.
(Prior Code § 4-305)
6-6B-5: SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Posting Notice: As soon as practicable after any dog, cat or other
animal of apparent value has been impounded, the pound officer or other
employee or officer impounding the animal shall post a notice thereof at the
City Clerk’s Office. The notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner
to pay the charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The
notice shall also state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be
sold or destroyed.
   B.   Conducting Sale Or Destruction Of Animal: Sales herein provided for
shall be for cash and shall be conducted by, or under the direction of, the
pound officer. If an impounded animal is not sold, he shall destroy the animal,
or have it destroyed, in a humane manner, or otherwise dispose of it in a legal
manner.
   C.   Acquiring Title To Animal: The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as
provided herein shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   D.   Disposition Of Monies Received: The pound officer shall pay to the City
Clerk all monies received from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is
received or on the next day upon which the Office of the City Clerk is open for
business.
(Prior Code § 4-306)
   E.   Excess Money Claimed By Owner: The owner of an impounded animal sold as
provided herein may claim the excess of the sale price of the animal above the
fees for impounding and keeping the same and a fee as may be set by the Council
to reimburse the City for any expense it has had in making the sale, at any
time within three (3) months after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved
by the Council, the City Clerk shall pay him such excess. If a claim is not
made within three (3) months after the sale, the excess shall belong to the
City.
(Prior Code § 4-307)
CHAPTER 7: FAIR HOUSING; NONDISCRIMINATION
Section
6-7-1: Fair Housing Policy
6-7-1: FAIR HOUSING POLICY:
   A.   Discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing, financing of housing or
land to be used for construction for housing or in the provision of brokerage
services because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin is prohibited
by Title VIII of the 1968 Civil Rights Act (Federal Fair Housing Law).
   B.   It is the policy of the City of Morris to implement programs to ensure
equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color,
religion, sex, or national origin. The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988
expands coverage to include disabled persons and families with children.
   C.   Within available resources the city will assist all persons who feel
they have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, disability or familial status to seek equity under federal and
state laws by filing a complaint with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Compliance Division.
   D.   The city shall publicize this section and through this publication the
county shall encourage owners of real estate, developers, and builders to
become aware of their respective responsibilities and rights under Federal Fair
Housing Law and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or
ordinances.
   E.   The program will at a minimum include:
      1.   Printing and publicizing of this policy and other applicable fair
housing information through local media and community contacts;
      2.   Distribution of posters, flyers and any other means that will bring
to the attention of concerning equal opportunity in housing; and
      3.   Will open a complaint file, to help mitigate any fair housing and/or
equal opportunity violations.
(Ord. 324-21, 4-12-2021)
TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapter
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION   1
VEHICLE OPERATION; SPEEDING AND TURNING   2
PARKING REGULATIONS   3
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES   4
PEDESTRIANS   5
BICYCLES   6
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT   7
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
7-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
7-1-2: Application Of Regulations
7-1-3: Texting While Driving
7-1-4: Vehicle Equipment Generally, Muffler
7-1-5: Size And Weight Of Vehicles
7-1-6: Securing Loads
7-1-7: Inspection Of Vehicles By Officers
7-1-8: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
7-1-9: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
7-1-10: Unlawful Riding
7-1-11: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations Prohibited
7-1-12: Application To Animal-Drawn Vehicles
7-1-13: Working On Streets; Exceptions
7-1-14: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-1-15: Following Fire Apparatus; Crossing Fire Hose
7-1-16: Duty Of Police
7-1-17: Eluding Police Officer
7-1-18: Accidents; Duty To Stop, Leaving Scene
7-1-19: Seat Belt Usage
7-1-20: Inoperable Vehicles
7-1-21: Security Verification Forms Required; Exceptions
7-1-22: Traffic Citation Issuance; Compliance Required
7-1-23: Penalty
7-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and is enforceable by the City within the
City limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code § 15-126)
7-1-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to every street, highway, alley,
roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either within or
outside the corporate limits of the City, the use of which the City has
jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   B.   Those upon land owned by the City;
   C.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the City;
   D.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the City.
(Prior Code § 15-102)
7-1-3: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message, the manual entry,
sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands-free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text-based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle on any street or highway while using a hand-held electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any person who violates the provisions of
subsection B of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), excluding costs, fees and
assessments.
   D.   Points Not Assessed Against Driver’s Traffic Record: The State
Department of Public Safety shall not record or assess points for violations of
this section on any license holder's traffic record maintained by the
Department.
   E.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection B of this section shall not
apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services;
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   F.   Preexisting Rights Of Action Preserved: The amendment or repeal of any
ordinances by the enactment of this section shall not impair, modify, alter, or
affect any rights, right of action or cause of action, whether now pending in
any court or not, which are now existing or which may arise or come into
existence, before the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 306-15, eff. 11-1-2015)
7-1-4: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY, MUFFLERS:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the City shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the City which is not equipped as
required by law;
   B.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law;
   C.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street
in the City; or
   D.   Operate a vehicle which has an internal combustion engine without a
suitable and sufficient muffler. No muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum
whistle shall be used on any motor vehicle while operating in the City.
(Prior Code § 15-103)
7-1-5: SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Weight Limit: No person shall drive on or convey through any street any
vehicle the width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that
authorized by State law, except in accordance with a permit issued by State
authority or by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Special Permit:
      1.   No vehicle weighing more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds shall be
operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the City except
upon Highway 52 and Highway 62, unless the vehicle has a special permit as
hereinafter provided. Upon proper application to the City Clerk, the Clerk may
issue a special permit to allow the operation of a motor vehicle weighing more
than ten thousand (10,000) pounds upon prohibited streets, alleys and other
public ways where it is made to appear to the Clerk that:
         a.   The vehicle is to be used to perform work within the area of the
public way and that no other reasonable access exists; or
         b.   The vehicle is to be used to deliver goods or merchandise to some
area served by the public way.
      2.   The cost of a special permit shall be five dollars ($5.00) and shall
be valid only for a twenty four (24) hour period. An individual permit will be
necessary for each motor vehicle.
(Prior Code § 15-104)
7-1-6: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry, hay or agricultural products except baled agricultural products but
any such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry or hay from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code § 15-105)
7-1-7: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS:
Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the streets
of the City at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is properly
equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code § 15-106)
7-1-8: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code § 15-107)
7-1-9: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code § 15-108)
7-1-10: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code § 15-109)
7-1-11: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control, to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this title. No parent of any child or guardian of
any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such child or ward to
violate any provision of this title.
(Prior Code § 15-110)
7-1-12: APPLICATION TO ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code § 15-111)
7-1-13: WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   City employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the City, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving, or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Council, to close any
street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic-control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons
having their places of residence or places of business within the closed area
may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code § 15-112)
7-1-14: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Drivers Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of this title
shall not apply to a driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm.
The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply
only when the driver of the vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by
bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the front of the vehicle; except, that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red
light visible from in front of the vehicle. These provisions shall not relieve
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the
driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of
others.
(Prior Code § 15-113)
   B.   Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Upon the immediate approach
of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible and visual signals
meeting the requirements of the laws of this State, or of a police vehicle
properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every
other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a
position parallel to, and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb
of the roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such
position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code § 15-114)
7-1-15: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Prior Code § 15-115)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code § 15-116)
7-1-16: DUTY OF POLICE:
The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the City and all of the State vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the City, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the City in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code § 15-117)
7-1-17: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. A visual or audible signal, for
the purpose of this section, means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car.
(Prior Code § 15-125)
7-1-18: ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall, upon
request, exhibit his driver license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the Police Department. If a driver makes a written report
of the accident in the Office of the Police Department as soon as practicable
after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the State Department of
Public Safety in accordance with State law, the driver shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 15-118)
7-1-19: SEAT BELT USAGE:
   A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this State shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208. For the purpose of this section,
PASSENGER CAR shall mean “automobile” as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-103.1; except, that PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, pickup
trucks, truck tractors, recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles, or motorized
bicycles.
   B.   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a passenger
car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written verification from a
physician licensed in this State that he is unable to wear a safety seat belt
system for medical reasons.
   C.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is a
route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   D.   This section shall not apply to any passenger vehicle which was
manufactured or assembled commencing with the 1966 models, unless such vehicle
is now equipped with a properly adjusted and fastened seat belt system.
   E.   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing this section.
   F.   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by a
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) and shall pay court cost of fifteen dollars
($15.00).
(Prior Code § 15-128)
7-1-20: INOPERABLE VEHICLE:
   A.   Definition: An INOPERABLE VEHICLE is a motor vehicle, the condition of
which is wrecked, dismantled, abandoned, junked, partially dismantled,
incapable of operation by its own power on a public street, or from which the
wheel(s), engine, tire(s), transmission, or any substantial part thereof has
been removed, a tire(s) is flat, and/or which has affixed thereto an unexpired
license plate.
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking,
storing or leaving, of any abandoned, partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked or junked vehicle in the open upon a public street, right-of-way or
alley for a period exceeding thirty (30) days.
(Prior Code § 15-242)
7-1-21: SECURITY VERIFICATION FORMS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Every owner of a motor vehicle registered in this State, except those
vehicles hereinafter specifically excluded, shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner's security verification form as provided by 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-601.1, as may be amended, listing the vehicle or any
equivalent form which has been issued by the Oklahoma Department of Public
Safety, which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request of any law
enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be shown upon
request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this State, except
those vehicles hereinafter specifically excluded, shall, while operating or
using such vehicle, carry either an operator's or an owner’s security
verification form, provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon,
or an equivalent form issued by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety, which
shall be produced upon request of any law enforcement officer and in case of a
collision, the form shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the
collision.
   C.   The owner or operator of the following vehicles shall not be required
to carry a security verification form:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the Federal or State government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Oklahoma Compulsory Insurance Law according to the records of the Oklahoma
Department of Public Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self- insurance, or
fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued by
the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
(Prior Code § 15-127)
7-1-22: TRAFFIC CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation Tags:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provision of this title.
      2.   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      3.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      5.   The City may require that the police officers use citation tags
furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are serially numbered,
and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code § 15-119)
   B.   Failure To Obey Citation:
      1.   Any person who is charged with a violation of this title and who,
having been duly issued a summons, or having been arraigned and released on
recognizance, or having made a promise to appear, and violates such
recognizance, or fails to answer the summons, or fails to honor a promise to
appear and does not voluntarily appear before the court on the appointed date
and time, regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the citation
was originally issued, shall be guilty of an offense.
      2.   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this subsection by
failing to appear in the Municipal Court shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine and fee associated
with the citation.
(Prior Code § 15-120)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Citation Attached To Parked Vehicle: If a
violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the Clerk of
the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this subsection.
(Prior Code § 15-121)
   D.   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citation: It is unlawful for any person
to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner
other than is provided by this section.
(Prior Code § 15-122)
   E.   Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants And Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the State or any traffic
law of the City, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the Municipal Court.
      2.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of bail or payment of a
fine.
      3.   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      4.   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this section.
(Prior Code § 15-123)
   F.   Court Records; Abstract Sent To State:
      1.   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Court shall prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of
Public Safety a certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An
abstract need not be made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or
standing of a vehicle.
      3.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator license, the registration number of the
vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea, the
judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code § 15-124)
7-1-23: PENALTY:
Any violations of the provisions of this title shall be punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 15-701)
CHAPTER 2: VEHICLE OPERATION; SPEEDING AND TURNING
Section
7-2-1: Vehicle Operation Generally
7-2-2: Licenses Required
7-2-3: Starting Parked Vehicle
7-2-4: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
7-2-5: Rights-Of-Way Generally
7-2-6: Vehicle Turning Left
7-2-7: Method Of Turning At Intersections
7-2-8: Turns And U-Turns
7-2-9: Turning, Stopping Signals Required
7-2-10: Reckless Driving
7-2-11: Inattentive Driving
7-2-12: Excessive Acceleration
7-2-13: Driving Under The Influence Of Intoxicating Substances
7-2-14: Driving On Sidewalk
7-2-15: Limitations On Backing
7-2-16: Corner Cutting
7-2-17: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
7-2-18: Speed Regulations
7-2-19: Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
7-2-1: VEHICLE OPERATION GENERALLY:
Every person operating a vehicle in the City shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
City and State, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others.
(Prior Code § 15-201)
7-2-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Driver License: It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver license as required by State law for operation of a vehicle upon the
State highways, to operate a motor vehicle within the City, or to operate a
motor vehicle within the City in violation of any restriction applied to the
driver license.
(Prior Code § 15-202)
   B.   Vehicle License: No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the
streets of the City any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer unless the
motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer is licensed as required by State law
and the license is conspicuously displayed thereon.
(Prior Code § 15-203)
   C.   Unlicensed Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to park any motor
vehicle not bearing a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street
or highway within the City.
(Prior Code § 15-204)
7-2-3: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code § 15-206)
7-2-4: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code § 15-207)
7-2-5: RIGHTS-OF-WAY GENERALLY:
The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right-of-
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street;
provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a State or
Federal highway approaching an intersection with a State or Federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code § 15-208)
7-2-6: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code § 15-209)
7-2-7: METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection.
(Prior Code § 15-221)
7-2-8: TURNS AND U-TURNS:
   A.   The City Council may determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place proper signs
at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns
are permitted.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Prior Code § 15-222)
7-2-9: TURNING, STOPPING SIGNALS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle except
upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the driver of
any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such
signal.
(Prior Code § 15-223)
7-2-10: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the City. “Reckless
driving” shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or
dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code § 15-210)
7-2-11: INATTENTIVE DRIVING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in an
inattentive manner within the City. For the purpose of this section,
INATTENTIVE means the person commits a moving violation, causes an accident, or
nearly causes an accident that is avoided only because of evasive action of
other drivers or pedestrians, all while dividing his attention from the safe
operation of the vehicle by some distracting activity.
   B.   For purposes of this section, DISTRACTING ACTIVITY means an activity
not directly related to the operation of the motor vehicle, and which may
include, but is not limited to: reading; writing; consuming food, beverages, or
tobacco; changing garments; using telephones, pagers, personal digital
assistants, global positioning devices, radar detectors, or other
communication/information devices; operating any form of radio, audio or video
cassette players, compact disc players, televisions, or any other audio or
video devices; portable computer; applying make-up, shaving, combing hair, or
attending to other forms of personal grooming; or interactions with passengers
or pets.
(Prior Code § 15-224)
7-2-12: EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION:
No person shall accelerate a vehicle from a stopped or substantially stopped
position with such force as to cause the wheels of the vehicle to loose
traction and squeal or make other loud noises, on any public street, or to
otherwise accelerate the vehicle so as to cause the tires to visibly mark the
surface of the roadway. It is the intent of this section to prohibit drivers on
public streets from performing maneuvers commonly called “laying rubber” or
“cutting donuts” or any similar practice.
(Prior Code § 15-225)
7-2-13: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES:
   A.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any
person to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
within the State, whether upon public roads, highways, streets, turnpikes,
other public places or upon any private road, street, alley or lane which
provides access to one or more single- or multi-family dwellings, who:
      1.   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in State
Statutes, of eight-hundredths (0.08) or more at the time of a test of such
person’s blood or breath administered within two (2) hours after the arrest of
such person;
      2.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
      3.   Is under the influence of any intoxicating substance other than
alcohol which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating a
motor vehicle; or
      4.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving
or operating a motor vehicle.
   B.   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is or
has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous substance
or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this section.
(Prior Code § 15-211)
7-2-14: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code § 15-212)
7-2-15: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code § 15-213)
7-2-16: CORNER CUTTING:
No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any parking
facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the services
offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking facility. No
person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across any parking
facility for the purpose of shortening his/her travel distance, avoiding a
traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or turning a
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from which it
entered the drive.
(Prior Code § 15-214)
7-2-17: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code § 15-215)
7-2-18: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Rules:
      1.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of subsection A1 of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Prior Code § 15-219)
   B.   General Maximum Speed Limits:
      1.   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this title,
and posted as required by law, shall be driven at a speed greater than:
         a.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour upon any City street within the
City; or
         b.   Thirty (30) miles per hour on any State or Federal highway in the
City.
      2.   The City Council may determine that certain other speed regulations
shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event,
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of
any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code § 15-220)
7-2-19: MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   Use Limitations:
      1.   No driver of a two-wheel or three-wheel motor vehicle or bicycle
shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street or
highway, except as provided in this section:
         a.   If any two-wheel or three-wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a
double seating device with double foot rests or a side car attachment providing
a separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
         b.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
      2.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of
the City.
      3.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter shall hold onto
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
      4.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or motor bicycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
      5.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles
in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized
emergency vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection A5.
      6.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any
motorcycle, motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the City between and during
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o'clock (4:00) A.M.
the next day.
(Prior Code § 15-216)
   B.   Required Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear:
      1.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor
scooters shall be equipped with the following:
         a.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment;
         b.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle;
         c.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop
and hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes.
One means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to
the front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
rear wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred
feet (100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon
application of the service brake;
         d.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided;
         e.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type
provided by the manufacturer;
         f.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection B1f shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (½) hour after sunset to
one-half (½) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead; and
         g.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
      2.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall operate or ride
upon any vehicle covered under this subsection unless the person is equipped
with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured
for use by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of
lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the view
of the driver. While operating or riding on a vehicle covered hereunder, the
chinstraps shall be fastened.
      3.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the vehicle.
(Prior Code § 15-217)
   C.   Special Speed Limitation On Motorcycles And Motor Scooters: No person
shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater than the
speed limit legally posted. In no event nor at any time may an operator under
the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor scooter, including
a motor-driven bicycle, at a speed greater than thirty five (35) miles per
hour, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by State law.
(Prior Code § 15-218)
CHAPTER 3: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
7-3-1: Obstructing Traffic Or Driveways
7-3-2: Parallel And Angle Parking
7-3-3: Parking Prohibited In Specific Areas
7-3-4: General Parking Restrictions
7-3-5: Truck Parking
7-3-6: Loading Zones
7-3-7: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
7-3-1: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code § 15-301)
7-3-2: PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall
be so stopped or parked in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of
the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code § 15-303)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Designation; Definition:
         a.   The City Council may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street.
         b.   ANGLE PARKING, for the purpose of this subsection, shall mean
parking at the curb at approximately a forty five degree (45°) angle between
the right side of the vehicle and the curb.
(Prior Code § 15-304)
      2.   Obedience To Angle Parking Rules:
         a.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front
of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
         b.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code § 15-305)
   C.   Parking Within Indicated Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have
been marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall
park such vehicle within a parking space as thus marked off, and not on or over
a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code § 15-302)
7-3-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC AREAS:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control
device, no person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      6.   On any railroad tracks;
      7.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within ten feet (10') of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station;
   C.   Stand or park at any place where official signs prohibit standing.
(Prior Code § 15-306)
7-3-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Certain Designated Streets: When signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any time upon any of
the designated streets, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device.
   B.   Time Limit: No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood or otherwise left
on any street in the City for a period of time longer than twenty four (24)
hours.
(Prior Code § 15-307)
   C.   Selling Merchandise From Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle upon a street in the City and offer merchandise for sale
therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided in this title, the sale of
merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the City is declared to be
dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around the vehicle and
constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code § 15-310)
7-3-5: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
park any of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on
any street or alley in the City, except as provided in subsection B of this
section:
      1.   Truck;
      2.   Bus;
      3.   Tractor;
      4.   Trailer;
      5.   Truck-trailer, semi-trailer, or combination of any of the above; or
      6.   Any other commercial vehicle.
   B.   The vehicles listed in subsection A of this section may be parked
entirely on private property so long as they are in the area dedicated for use
as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the usage of the streets
by other vehicles and pedestrians. They may also be parked on other streets
only by special permit issued by the City.
(Prior Code § 15-312)
7-3-6: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designation Of Loading Zones: The City Council may determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this subsection are applicable.
(Prior Code § 15-308)
   B.   Standing In Loading Zones:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
      3.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code § 15-309)
7-3-7: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of the parking, the registered owner of the vehicle shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this section has been followed.
(Prior Code § 15-311)
CHAPTER 4: TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
Section
7-4-1: Obedience To Devices
7-4-2: Necessity Of Signs
7-4-3: Interference With Devices, Signs Or Signals
7-4-4: Presumption Of Legality
7-4-5: Ratification Of Existing Devices
7-4-6: Traffic-Control Signal Legend
7-4-7: Flashing Signals
7-4-8: Driving Within Traffic Lanes
7-4-9: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-4-10: Through, Stop And Yield Streets And Intersections
7-4-1: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this title unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title (see section
7-1-15 of this title).
(Prior Code § 15-401)
7-4-2: NECESSITY OF SIGNS:
No provision of this title for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code § 15-402)
7-4-3: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(Prior Code § 15-403)
7-4-4: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY:
   A.   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code § 15-404)
7-4-5: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES:
All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the effective date hereof and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or State law.
(Prior Code § 15-405)
7-4-6: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall indicate
appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as provided
by applicable State law.
(Prior Code § 15-406)
7-4-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic sign
or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   A.   Flashing red (stop signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing yellow (caution signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. This section shall not
apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code § 15-407)
7-4-8: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code § 15-408)
7-4-9: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the City designates any one-way
street or alley, the appropriate City personnel shall place and maintain signs
giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless the
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   B.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited.
(Prior Code § 15-409)
7-4-10: THROUGH, STOP AND YIELD STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Designation Of Through Streets: The City Council, by motion or
resolution, may designate any street or part of a street a through street.
(Prior Code § 15-410)
   B.   Signs At Through Streets: Whenever a through street is designated by
the Council, the appropriate City personnel shall be directed to place and
maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation, at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic-control signals.
(Prior Code § 15-411)
   C.   Procedure At Stop Signs:
      1.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of- way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code § 15-412)
   D.   Procedure At Yield Signs: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign, if required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield
sign shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian legally crossing the
roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or
approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
The driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding;
provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision with a
pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving past a
yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code § 15-413)
CHAPTER 5: PEDESTRIANS
Section
7-5-1: Pedestrians And Crosswalks
7-5-1: PEDESTRIANS AND CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Crosswalk Defined: A CROSSWALK shall be defined as an eight foot (8')
lane of pedestrian travel, located at the corner of an intersection of two (2)
or more roadways, and projecting across a single roadway by a route at right
angles to the edge of the street pavement or by the shortest route to the
opposite edge of the street pavement; or any lane of pedestrian travel which
has been marked by paint, signage, and/or crossing guards and projecting across
a single roadway by a route at right angles to the edge of the roadway or by
the shortest route to the opposite edge of the roadway.
   B.   Electronic Or Manual Traffic-Control Signals:
      1.   When electronic or manual traffic-control signals are not in place
or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the
roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway
upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so
closely to the opposite half of roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   When electronic or manual traffic-control signals are in place, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way by stopping to so yield
according to the signal, allowing a pedestrian to cross the roadway within a
crosswalk.
   B.   Pedestrian Responsibility: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. Anytime vehicles are
present, pedestrians shall cross the streets only within crosswalks.
   C.   Stopping Of Vehicles: Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked
crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   D.   School Zone Consideration: In any conviction for a violation of this
section, the court shall consider whether or not the location of the offense is
within or outside of a school zone, and whether or not children are present, in
the setting of the penalty.
(Ord. 298-12, 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 6: BICYCLES
Section
7-6-1: Applicability Of Regulations
7-6-2: Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
7-6-3: Regulations For Riding On Bicycles
7-6-4: Lights And Reflectors
Cross-reference:
   See also section
7-2-19 of this Code
7-6-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform
any act required by the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to bicycles operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code § 15-501)
   B.   Traffic Laws: Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring rules of the road
applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the City applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of law and ordinances which, by their nature, can
have no application.
(Prior Code § 15-502)
7-6-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any person may walk bicycles and shall
then be subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code § 15-503)
7-6-3: REGULATIONS FOR RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Use Of Seat; Passengers: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride
other than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle
shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it is
designed and equipped.
(Prior Code § 15-504)
   B.   Using Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a
roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
(Prior Code § 15-505)
   C.   Riding Abreast: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code § 15-506)
   D.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code § 15-507)
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk
within the City.
(Prior Code § 15-508)
7-6-4: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS:
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the State Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from
all distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code § 15-509)
CHAPTER 7: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
7-7-1: Purpose And Effect Of Provisions
7-7-2: Place Of Impoundment
7-7-3: Duration Of Impoundment
7-7-4: Police Authority To Impound
7-7-5: Disabled Vehicles
7-7-6: Vehicles On Bridge
7-7-7: Arrest And Detention Of Driver
7-7-8: Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
7-7-9: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
7-7-10: Vehicle Parked Overtime
7-7-11: Vehicle Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
7-7-12: Vehicles Parked In Intersection
7-7-13: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
7-7-14: Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
7-7-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code § 15-601)
7-7-2: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Police
Chief, and to no other place.
(Prior Code § 15-602)
7-7-3: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the Traffic Violations Bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   C.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the City because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
(Prior Code § 15-603)
7-7-4: POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Prior Code § 15-604)
7-7-5: DISABLED VEHICLES:
A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   A.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   B.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code § 15-605)
7-7-6: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-606)
7-7-7: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leave
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-607)
7-7-8: VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-608)
7-7-9: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be parked in violation of this title may
be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this title occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this title
have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code § 15-609)
7-7-10: VEHICLE PARKED OVERTIME:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of subsections
7-3-4A and B of this title, regarding more than twenty four (24) hours, shall
be impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-610)
7-7-11: VEHICLE BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-611)
7-7-12: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code § 15-612)
7-7-13: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment, and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code § 15-613)
7-7-14: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this title.
(Prior Code § 15-614)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Chapter
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS   1
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
8-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
8-1-2: Obstructing Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways
8-1-3: Depositing Trash Upon Streets Or Sidewalks
8-1-4: Playing Restricted
8-1-5: Washing Vehicles
8-1-6: Water From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
8-1-7: Obstructing Flow Of Water On Streets Or In Gutters
8-1-8: Owner Or Occupant Responsible For Sidewalk Condition
8-1-9: Penalty
8-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Required:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the City shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
(Prior Code § 14-101)
      2.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection A of this section, after
receiving five (5) days’ notice from the head of the department in charge of
streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against the City. Every day
that the said owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim said
trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five (5) days’ notice, shall be
a separate offense.
(Prior Code § 14-102)
   B.   Injury: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
on a street or alley in the City; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code § 14-103)
8-1-2: OBSTRUCTING STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Merchandise: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and
alleys of the City any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other
obstruction, and leave the same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry
on a business or trade.
(Prior Code § 14-104)
   B.   Interference With Pedestrian Or Vehicular Traffic: It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the City in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use
or obstruct the streets and alleys of the City in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code § 14-105)
8-1-3: DEPOSITING TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the City any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code § 14-106)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
5-4-10 of this Code
8-1-4: PLAYING RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main-
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the City, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code § 14-107)
8-1-5: WASHING VEHICLES:
   A.   Washing On Street: The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any
street of the City is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code § 14-108)
   B.   Water Or Mud Draining Onto Street Or Sidewalk: No automobile or other
vehicle shall be washed at any place within the City where the water, dirt, mud
or other substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof shall
drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the City.
(Prior Code § 14-109)
8-1-6: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way.
(Prior Code § 14-110)
8-1-7: OBSTRUCTING FLOW OF WATER ON STREETS OR IN GUTTERS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter.
(Prior Code § 14-112)
8-1-8: OWNER OR OCCUPANT RESPONSIBLE FOR SIDEWALK CONDITION:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code § 14-111)
8-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 14-113)
   Morris - Public Utilities
TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Chapter
GENERAL UTILITY SERVICE PROVISIONS   1
WATER SERVICE   2
SEWER SERVICE   3
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES   3A
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL   4
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL UTILITY SERVICE PROVISIONS
Section
9-1-1: Utility Department And Superintendent
9-1-2: Application For Utility Service
9-1-3: Utility Rates And Charges
9-1-4: Payment Of Bills; Procedure Upon Delinquency
9-1-5: Right Reserved To Interrupt Service
9-1-6: Damaging Equipment Or Tampering With Meters
9-1-7: Interference With Mains, Fire Hydrants
9-1-8: Utility Deposits
9-1-1: UTILITY DEPARTMENT AND SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Department Established; Superintendent Appointed: A Utility Department
is established for the City with responsibility for the management,
maintenance, care and operation of the City utilities. The head of the Utility
Department is the Superintendent of City Services who is appointed by the Mayor
with confirmation of the City Council.
   B.   Inspection Authorized: The Superintendent and other personnel in the
service of any City utility system may enter any private premises served by the
City utility system at any reasonable times, and inspect the pipes and fixtures
on the premises. The consumer must answer fully, to the extent of his
knowledge, all reasonable questions relating to the service on his premises.
(Prior Code § 17-110)
9-1-2: APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   Application For Connection: Every person, firm or corporation desiring
to have his premises connected with any of the City utilities, water, sewer, or
trash collection, shall make application to the City Clerk, shall sign a
contract therefor upon a printed form to be furnished for that purpose, and
shall pay to the Clerk the regular fees and deposits for installation of the
service.
(Prior Code § 17-101)
   B.   Separate Services: Every separate premises supplied must have its own
separate service connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so
supplied shall not be allowed to supply water or sewer to any other premises,
except those approved by the Superintendent of City Services, in writing.
(Prior Code § 17-102)
9-1-3: UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Procedure For Establishing: The City Council, acting either as the
governing board of the City or as trustees of the Morris Public Works
Authority, shall establish rates, charges, deposits, and fees for utility
services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy of the
current rates and charges shall be available in the City Clerk’s Office.
(Prior Code § 17-108)
   B.   Manner Of Billing: All fees and charges in connection with any
customer’s use of the City sanitary sewer system, the City water facility
system, or the operation of the City collection and disposal of refuse and
garbage are billed in accordance with applicable rates set as provided in
subsection A of this section. All fees and charges owing for any of these
utility services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer
each month.
(Prior Code § 17-111)
   C.   Rural Water Rates And Dormancy:
      1.   A RURAL WATER METER is defined as any water meter whose metered
water does not enter the City sewage system.
(Prior Code § 17-109)
      2.   A rural water rate shall be as provided in subsection
9-2-4C of this title.
(Prior Code § 17-109; amd. Ord. 312-18, 6-11-2018)
      3.   Rural water meter winter water turn off may be requested in writing
by a rural water customer. The rural water meter under water turn off request
must be in writing and filed at the City Hall. The winter water turn off
request must ask that a final meter reading be taken and the rural meter turned
off for the winter.
      4.   Water meters shall only be turned on or off by the Morris Public
Works Authority.
(Prior Code § 17-109)
9-1-4: PAYMENT OF BILLS; PROCEDURE UPON DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill
submitted by the City for any utility services pursuant to subsection
9-1-2B of this chapter by the tenth day of the month following the month when
the service was rendered, the following actions and penalties may result:
      1.   A ten percent (10%) penalty of all amounts owing on a utility bill
may be added to any utility bill which is not paid by the tenth of the month
following the month when the service was rendered; and
      2.   If the bill remains unpaid as of the twentieth day of the month
following the month when the service was rendered, then the following actions
may result:
         a.   The authorized agents of the City may disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to
the customer of the intent of the City to disconnect or discontinue any or all
of the utility services;
         b.   The authorized agents of the City, upon direction of the City
Council, may discontinue furnishing water to any customer refusing or
neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after mailing
written notice to the customer of the intent of the City to disconnect the
water service.
      3.   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the City, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   B.   If City personnel goes to the premises to shut off the service and the
occupant pays the City personnel prior to his shutting off the service, there
shall be added to the bill a sum as set by the City Council by motion or
resolution for the trip made by the City personnel to shut off such services.
All bills, penalties and fees collected as hereinabove specified shall be paid
over to the City Clerk. Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the
City from instituting suit for the recovery of any delinquent accounts.
   C.   The City Clerk may not accept payment of a water bill without payment
of the sewer service charge, nor shall the Clerk accept payment of a sewer bill
without payment of the water bill. The failure to pay any utility bill in
accordance with subsections A and B of this section shall be grounds for
discontinuing any or all of the utility services furnished to the customer
whose bill is delinquent.
(Prior Code § 17-103)
   D.   A collection fee of thirty five percent (35%) of utility penalties and
fees in cases in which the consumer has failed to satisfy a monetary obligation
by the City shall be added to any such case which is referred to a collection
agency for collection.
(Ord. 315-19, 1-14-2019)
9-1-5: RIGHT RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE:
The City reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice for
repairs, extensions, or for any other reason, and no liability shall attach
therefrom.
(Prior Code § 17-104)
9-1-6: DAMAGING EQUIPMENT OR TAMPERING WITH METERS:
   A.   Equipment: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or
injure any water pipe, hydrant, faucet, electric light, wire, pole,
transformer, or other electrical, sewer or water equipment erected or placed by
or belonging to the City.
(Prior Code § 17-105)
   B.   Meters: The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the City, or
the placing of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any
other device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is
unlawful.
(Prior Code § 17-107)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
6-4B-7 of this Code
9-1-7: INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to disturb, interfere with, open,
operate, close, turn on, turn off, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with any fire hydrant, or stop any valve or stopcock belonging to the
City. However, this section shall not apply to any member of the Fire
Department when in the lawful discharge of his duties as such or to any person
endeavoring to prevent or put out any fire in any lawful manner.
(Prior Code § 17-106)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
6-4B-7 of this Code
9-1-8: UTILITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   For a residence, house, apartment or office, the sum of one hundred
($100.00) if the water account is in the name of the owner of said premises; if
the water account is in the name of a person other than the owner of said
premises, the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00);
   B.   For any commercial establishment the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00)
   C.   For an industrial or agricultural user (manufacturing, irrigation,
etc.) an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated annual water bill
of said user as determined by the city council.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this title, if the
consumer applying for an account has previously held an account with the city,
and said applicant has in the past established a bad credit history with the
city by having on three (3) occasions either attempted to pay the account with
a check which was dishonored by the bank on which it was drawn, or has not paid
the account by the due date of payment, or has moved without making a final
payment at a previous location, then the city shall require the payment of all
outstanding balances and bank fees plus the higher of the normal deposit or a
deposit equal to one-forth (1/4) of the estimated yearly utility charge, as
determined by the City Clerk. Further, if a consumer with an existing account
has established a bad credit history with the city, as above set forth, said
consumer shall be required to increase the existing deposit to an amount equal
to one-fourth (1/4) of the annual utility charge of said customer, if the
amount so computed is greater than the standard deposit required for said
customer, and the failure to pay the increased deposit shall give the city
authority to terminate the water service to such consumer.
(Ord. 325-21, 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 2: WATER SERVICE
Section
9-2-1: Application To Make Connections (Tap) To Water Mains
9-2-2: Contract For Water Service
9-2-3: Water Deposit Required
9-2-4: Water Rates Established
9-2-5: Water Meters
9-2-6: Water Shortage; Use Restrictions
9-2-1: APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTIONS (TAP) TO WATER MAINS:
Any person desiring to make a water connection (tap) to a water main of the
City is required to file a written application with the City Clerk of the city
to make a connection.
   A.   Installation Of Water Service: Installation of water service shall
include a tap on a City water main and installation of an appropriately sized
meter. The water meter shall be place at a location within the right-of-way or
easement but outside of the portion of any street, alley, or driveway devoted
to vehicular traffic. Installation of water service includes the typically
necessary street cut and street cut repair. Connection of the private service
line for the property to be served to the water meter is the responsibility of
the property owner and must be performed by a licensed plumber at the property
owner's expense.
      1.   Residential And Commercial Water Service Connection (Tap): The fee
for installation of residential water service performed by employees of the
City of Morris shall be as follows:
         a.   Three-fourths inch (3/4") through one and one-half inch (1-1/2")
line and meter: eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
         b.   Over one and one-half inch (1-1/2") line and meter: one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
(Prior Code § 17-201)
   B.   Compliance With Local And State Laws: Any person, firm or corporation
who connects to the water mains of the City in violation of this chapter or
other ordinances of the City or the laws of the State will be denied further
water service until such ordinances and laws are complied with.
(Prior Code § 17-202) (amd. Ord. 319-19, 10-15-2019)
Cross-reference:
   See section
10-1-6 of this Code regarding required inspections
9-2-2: CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE:
The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part of the
person making the application:
   A.   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
   B.   To recognize the right of the City to change the rate by ordinance at
any time;
   C.   To recognize the right of the City temporarily to discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
   D.   Stating that the contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect at
the time of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect
thereafter;
   E.   Stating that the City shall not be responsible for any damage by water
or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that the
fact that an agent of the City has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not
be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
   F.   Providing that the City shall not be liable for damages resulting from
the interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the cause
thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the City nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligations of his contract; and
   G.   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the City and applied by the City on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer; and providing further, that unless the water
deposit is claimed by the consumer within six (6) months after the consumer
ceases to use the water or within six (6) months after the water is turned off
for any cause by the City, then the consumer forfeits all right, title or
interest in and to the water deposit.
(Prior Code § 17-204)
9-2-3: WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to use water shall pay to the City Clerk as a meter
deposit the amount which is established in accordance with subsection
9-1-3A of this title. The City Council may establish classifications of
customers, such as residences, mobile homes, and various types of businesses,
for different deposit requirements.
(Prior Code § 17-203)
9-2-4: WATER RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby levied upon each residential user or consumer who is
inside of the city limits and has been connected to the city water supply a
charge for all water consumed or used in a billing cycle as follows, to wit:
 
One thousand gallons or less             $20.15
For each additional one thousand gallons An additional $9.15
 
   B.   There is hereby levied upon each commercial user or consumer who is
inside of the city limits and has been connected to the city water supply a
charge for all water consumed or used in a billing cycle as follows, to wit:
 
One thousand gallons or less             $20.15
For each additional one thousand gallons An additional $9.15
 
   C.   There is hereby levied upon each rural user or consumer who is outside
of the city limits and has been connected to the city water supply a charge for
all water consumed or used in a billing cycle as follows, to wit:
 
One thousand gallons or less             $20.15
For each additional one thousand gallons An additional $11.15
 
(Ord. 312-18, 6-11-2018; amd. Ord. 318-19, 6-10-2019; Ord. 321-20, 6-8-2020;
Ord. 331-23, 6-12-2023)
9-2-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   City-Approved Meters Required: All premises using or consuming the City
water supply must be equipped with a City-approved adequate water meter. It is
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or consume City water on
any premises unless the City has installed an approved water meter. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code § 17-208)
   B.   Meter Failure; Estimate Of Bill:
      1.   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or broken
by wilful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or
occupant. In case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be
turned on until such charges are paid.
      2.   In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the Water
Superintendent of the average monthly consumption during the last three (3)
months when the meter was in good condition or from what he may consider to be
the most reliable data at his command.
(Prior Code § 17-211)
   C.   Bypassing Or Tampering With Meters Prohibited: It is declared unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to take, use or consume any City water by
bypassing a meter. It is further unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to: 1) make any connection to the City water supply without approval of the
City Superintendent; 2) tamper with a water meter; 3) destroy or disable a
water meter; or 4) take any other action that would constitute the larceny or
theft of water or defeat the purpose of the water meter. 
(Prior Code § 17-209)
9-2-6: WATER SHORTAGE; USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency:
      1.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the City’s water system.
      2.   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that
the City's water system is unable or will, within sixty (60) days, become
unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof,
including adequate fire protection.
(Prior Code § 17-212)
   B.   Restriction On Water Use:
      1.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the City system. The order
may:
         a.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
         b.   Prohibit usage not essential to public health and safety.
The order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
      2.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
Mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Council, by resolution approved by a majority
of all its members, votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date.
(Prior Code § 17-213)
   C.   Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency:
      1.   The proclamation required by subsection B of this section shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four
(24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy
of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the City. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this subsection C1 is sufficient to effect the emergency.
      2.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
C1 of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with subsection C1 of this section within twenty four (24) hours of the first
notice.
(Prior Code § 17-214)
   D.   Grievances With Water Restrictions: Any person feeling aggrieved by a
proclamation of the Mayor shall have the right to present the matter to the
next regular or special meeting of the City Council or to any emergency session
called to discuss the water emergency. The Council may exempt such aggrieved
person, wholly or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a
showing that compliance creates an immediate threat to the person's health or
safety. The ruling of the Council, by a majority vote of all its members, shall
be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation.
Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked by action of
the Council, all water users shall be bound by the proclamation.
(Prior Code § 17-215)
   E.   Penalty: Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates
or permits others under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term
of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
violation of the provisions of the Mayor's proclamation or action of the
Council shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 17-216)
CHAPTER 3: SEWER SERVICE
Section
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Conformance To Rules And Regulations
9-3-3: Sewer Connection Permit Fee
9-3-4: Sewer Service Charges Generally
9-3-5: New Sewers And Connections
9-3-6: Prohibited Discharges; Violation And Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed in this section:
SANITARY SEWAGE OR SEWAGE: The liquid waste which may or may not contain
solids, originating in the sanitary conveniences for personnel of a dwelling,
business building, factory or institution.
SANITARY SEWER OR SEWER: Means and includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines,
main lines, sub- main lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants, and all
sewer lines connected to the City sewer lines or treatment plants whether owned
by the City or not.
USER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM: The person, firm or corporation having a contract for
water service at a particular location, if the location has a sanitary sewer
connection with the City system, or in case there is no water contract on file,
then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with water bills for the
location, or which pays the same, or in case a private water supply is used,
then the proprietor of the location having the sewer connection.
(Prior Code § 17-302)
9-3-2: CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sewer Connections: All connection to the sewers of the City shall
conform to the rules and regulations prescribed by the City. Any person
desiring to make a connection to a sewer main of the City is required to file a
written application to the City Clerk to make the connection (tap) and pay a
three hundred dollar ($300.00) connection (tap) fee. All connections (taps)
shall be performed by a state licensed plumber.
(Prior Code § 17-301)
   B.   Persons Connecting To Public Sewer:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection
on any public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer, without complying with the rules and regulations
herein set out.
      2.   No person, firm or corporation shall connect more than one building
to a single lateral leading to the public sewer system of the City.
(Prior Code § 17-303)
   C.   Connections In Violation Of Local Or State Laws:
      1.   Any person who connects to the sewers of the City in violation of
this chapter or any other ordinance of the City or of the laws of the State
will be denied further sewer service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector or other person
designated by the City Council to disconnect any sewers which have not been
connected in compliance with the ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code § 17-305) (amd. Ord. 320-20, 10-15-2019)
9-3-3: SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT FEE:
   A.   A charge prescribed by subsection
9-3-2B of this chapter for each connection made on the sanitary sewer system of
the City regardless of whether the connection is made on what has heretofore
been designated as a public sewer or a private sewer, is hereby levied for the
right of the person, firm or corporation to make the connection to the sanitary
sewer system of the City.
   B.   It is hereby declared to be the duty of the City Clerk to make this
collection for issuing a permit to the applicant.
(Prior Code § 17-304)
9-3-4: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES GENERALLY:
   A.   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sanitary
sewerage system of the City and for other purposes, there are hereby fixed and
established charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be levied
against each respective user thereof within the City in such amounts and
according to such classifications of users as the Council by resolution or
motion may determine.
   B.   A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on file in the
City Clerk’s Office (see section
9-3A-1 of this chapter).
(Prior Code § 17-306)
9-3-5: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building Code and other applicable rules and
regulations of the City.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Health
regulations.
   C.   When a public sewer becomes available (within 200 feet), the building
sewer shall be connected to the sewer within sixty (60) days.
(Prior Code § 17-308)
9-3-6: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes may:
         a.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
         b.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
         c.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
      2.   All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet the
criteria for “domestic wastewater”. BOD concentration shall not exceed two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L). SS shall not exceed two hundred
fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
      3.   All industrial discharges are prohibited in the City. At the present
time, there are no industrial users in the City. If such a user should desire
to use the sanitary sewer system in the future, this subsection will be revised
to meet all State and Federal requirements for regulation of all industrial
waste discharges.
      4.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code § 17-307)
   B.   Violations, Penalty:
      1.   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, is punishable by a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection B1 of this
section, the City is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges.
      3.   The City reserves the right to terminate service to any customer
that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the
sewer system.
(Prior Code § 17-309)
ARTICLE A: WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
Section
9-3A-1: Sewer Rates
9-3A-2: User Charge Schedule
9-3A-3: Extra Strength Charges
9-3A-4: Toxic Pollutants Charges
9-3A-5: Charges For Extraneous Flows
9-3A-6: Review And Revision Of User Charges
9-3A-7: Annual Notification Of Charges
9-3A-8: Recordkeeping System
9-3A-9: Billing; Delinquencies
9-3A-10: Validity
9-3A-11: Effective Date
9-3A-1: SEWER RATES:
   A.   All users of the municipality owned wastewater collections and
treatment system shall be charged a minimum of $24.13 and an additional $3.74
per thousand gallons for each thousand gallons after the first thousand.
   B.   In the case of users not on a metered basis, the utility superintendent
shall establish an estimated water consumption based on a comparison of the
non-metered user with a metered user of a similar class or use intensity. (Ord.
311-17, 7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 318-19, 6-10-2019; Ord. 321-20, 6-8-2020; Ord.
227-23, 3-13-2023)
9-3A-2: USER CHARGE SCHEDULE:
As the BOD, suspended solids, and other pollutant concentrations discharged
shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be charged on
a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
   Cu = Cb + Ct/Vt(Vu)
   (Based on Model No. 1, 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
   Symbols and definitions:
 
Cu = A user’s charge per unit of time.
Cb = A user’s base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing, administration,
     etc.) per unit of time.
Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time.
V  = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
t    extraneous flows).
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
 
(Prior Code § 17-321)
9-3A-3: EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES:
For any user, when the BOD exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(maximum limit for average domestic waste) (250 mg/L), the suspended solids
exceeds two hundred fifty milligrams per lite (maximum limit for average
domestic waste) (250 mg/L), or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the
range of concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a
surcharge shall be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be
calculated by the following formula:
   Cs = rBc(B) + Sc(S) = Pc(P) 7 Vu
   (Based on Model No. 2, 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
   Symbols and definitions:
Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD).
B  = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level.
Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS).
S  = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level.
Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant.
P  = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level.
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time.
 
(Prior Code § 17-322)
9-3A-4: TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES:
Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay for
such increased costs.
(Prior Code § 17-324)
9-3A-5: CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS:
The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly attributable
to users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among users on the
same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
(Prior Code § 17-326)
9-3A-6: REVIEW AND REVISION OF USER CHARGES:
The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less often than every two (2)
years regarding the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the
total costs of the operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its
approved user charge system. The charges for users or user classes shall be
revised to accomplish the following:
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
   B.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the treatment works; and
   C.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and the
rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code § 17-323)
9-3A-7: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION OF CHARGES:
Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the regular
bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services. Costs shall be broken down to
show the operation and maintenance costs attributable to that user.
(Prior Code § 17-325)
9-3A-8: RECORDKEEPING SYSTEM:
A recordkeeping system shall be established and maintained by the City to
document compliance with Federal regulations pertaining to the user charge
ordinance.
(Prior Code § 17-327)
9-3A-9: BILLING; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due ten (10) days
after the date of billing. Users on metered water service will be billed on the
same notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry.
   B.   Users of the wastewater system not on metered water service will be
billed monthly on an individual notice for wastewater service at the rate
established by the Utility Superintendent.
   C.   Users with delinquent accounts of ten (10) days will be notified in
writing by the Utility Superintendent that water or wastewater services will be
terminated unless the account is paid in full.
   D.   The Utility Superintendent will utilize the law enforcement agency to
assist as required in the control and management of the user charge system.
(Prior Code § 17-329)
9-3A-10: VALIDITY:
   A.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
   B.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this
article shall not affect the validity of any other part of this article which
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   C.   The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of agreements or contracts between the City and any of the users
which are inconsistent with applicable Federal regulations regarding user
charge systems.
(Prior Code § 17-328)
9-3A-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective and enforceable at one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) A.M., the day that the City officially issues its notice to
proceed to the contractor who is awarded the contract to expand the City
wastewater treatment plant designated as EPA Project C-40-0791. Until that
time, all current ordinances are to remain in effect.
(Prior Code § 17-330)
CHAPTER 4: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Accumulations; Container Requirements
9-4-3: Collection Of Garbage And Refuse
9-4-4: Contract For Collection And Disposal
9-4-5: Method Of Disposal
9-4-6: Inspection Of Premises
9-4-7: Collection Rates And Charges; Billing
9-4-8: Duty To Request Garbage Service
9-4-9: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CITY HEALTH OFFICER: That person so designated to act by the City Council, at a
compensation also set by the City Council, if any.
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowl from
any premises within the City limits.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into lengths
not exceeding 31/2 feet), leaves, etc., from any premises within the City
limits.
RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden, or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger and/or heavier than refuse.
(Prior Code § 17-401)
9-4-2: ACCUMULATIONS; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS
   A.   Container Requirements; Location:
      1.   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage
or rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order
and repair, on any premises, a portable container or containers for refuse
which shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible,
rodent-proof and fly-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which shall not be removed
except when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with
handles on the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to
accommodate and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may
accumulate between collections; provided, that each container shall have a
capacity of not more than thirty two (32) gallons, except where approved type
bulk storage containers are in use; and provided further, that all containers
shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of any substance remaining
attached to the inside of the container which would attract flies, mosquitoes
and any other insects.
      2.   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for
collection, as designated by the City Council, or its representatives, whereby
collectors can obtain same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates
or fenced yards with dogs. All containers and grounds immediately around same
shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
   B.   Rubbish Bundles: All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree
limbs, paper boxes, and scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the
containers required by this section shall be gathered together and baled, tied
or sacked in compact bundles, weighing no more than fifty (50) pounds, and
placed in a location easily accessible to the collector.
   C.   Open Burning: There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless
the operations are carried out in an approved-type incinerator, or approval is
obtained from the City Health Officer.
(Prior Code § 17-402)
9-4-3: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   The City or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the City not less than once weekly all garbage and rubbish; provided, that
it shall be the duty of any person in possession or control of any premises to
place the containers required by this chapter in a location easily accessible
to the collector as directed by the City Health Officer.
   B.   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the City Health Officer for
removal and disposal of same.
   C.   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having same in charge and
by the method directed by the City Health Officer.
   D.   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the City Health Officer.
   E.   Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and
other animal or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations, or
materials considered hazardous and/or dangerous shall be removed and disposed
of at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the
method directed by the City Health Officer.
   F.   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the City limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the City limits, except at such place as may be directed by the City
Health Officer is prohibited.
   G.   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering
contents, or junking in any alley or street within the City limits is
prohibited.
(Prior Code § 17-403)
9-4-4: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   The City or its authorized representatives shall have authority to
enter into contractual obligations with those who wish to engage in the
business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the City.
The City shall be limited to contracting for such service to contract only with
persons having proper equipment, meeting State Department of Health
requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of refuse in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and provided further, that the
method of disposal contracted for must be in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   B.   Every person, firm, organization, or other entity, governmental or
nongovernmental, desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of refuse
may make written application to the City setting forth the name of such person,
firm, corporation or entity, governmental or nongovernmental, the residence
address thereof, the names of all principal owners or stockholders; the names
and residences of all officers and directors; the address of the place of
business; a description of the equipment to be used in the collection or
disposal of such refuse; and the place of disposal as well as the method of
disposal to be utilized. Within forty five (45) days prior to the expiration of
the current refuse collection contract, the City shall advertise for
competitive bids for the trash collection and disposal contract for the City.
All parties who have previously filed written application as above provided
shall be notified by the City Clerk of the advertisement for bids. The contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder as determined by the City
Council. The contract shall be awarded within fifteen (15) days of the
expiration of any existing contract. All contracts shall expire at eleven fifty
nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on June 30. The City Council may establish conditions
of the contract including insurances and bonds that may be required, in their
discretion.
   C.   Any person whose application has been denied may request and shall be
granted a hearing before the City Council.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under a contract with
the City to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the City.
(Prior Code § 17-404)
9-4-5: METHOD OF DISPOSAL:
The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover.
(Prior Code § 17-405)
9-4-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer, and he is hereby directed, to
make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all premises to
see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code § 17-406)
9-4-7: COLLECTION RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING:
   A.   Fees Imposed:
      1.   Residential: There shall be charged and collected from each
residential a monthly fee of ten dollars fifty six cents ($10.56) for trash and
refuse collection within the City limits.
      2.   Commercial: For commercial trash collection, there shall be charged
and collected from each commercial entity a monthly fee of:
 
                                 $15.00 for 1 per week, $24.00 for collection
a.   For 2 cubic yard containetwice per week, or $40.00 for 3 collections
                                 per week
                                 $21.00 for 1 per week, $36.00 for collection
b.   For 3 cubic yard containetwice per week, or $60.00 for 3 collections
                                 per week
                                 $27.00 for 1 per week, $48.00 for collection
c.   For 4 cubic yard containetwice per week, or $84.50 for 3 collections
                                 per week
 
(Prior Code § 17-407)
   B.   Charges Included On Water Bill: All bills for sanitary sewer charges
and for trash and refuse charges shall be included on water bills, carrying the
same due dates, grace periods and penalties as water bills. In the event a
partial payment is made for less than the total bill, the payment will be
applied first to sanitary sewer, then to trash and refuse if money remains,
then to water if money remains.
(Prior Code § 17-409)
9-4-8: DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE:
To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the City, it shall be the
duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any
premises located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the City
Garbage Department at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and
use the garbage pick up and collection service; provided, however, that failure
of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such request
shall not prevent nor in any way impair or impede the City from adding the
address of such premises to the proper garbage collection route records and
providing such service and otherwise enforcing, by appropriate action, the
regulatory measures herein prescribed and causing the fees or charges therefor
to be paid.
(Prior Code § 17-408)
9-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 17-410)
TITLE 10: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Chapter
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS   1
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS   2
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS   3
HOUSING CODE AND REGULATIONS   4
FIRE CODE AND REGULATIONS   5
GAS CODES   6
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME COURTS   7
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
10-1-1: Building Code Adopted
10-1-2: Additions And Changes To Building Code
10-1-3: Building Inspector
10-1-4: Fire Limits; Wood Shingles
10-1-5: Building Permit Requirements
10-1-6: Required Inspections And Fees
10-1-7: Numbering Of Houses And Commercial Buildings Required
10-1-8: Demolition Permits
10-1-9: Penalty; Relief In Courts
10-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 International Building Code, 2015 International Existing Building Code
and 2015 International Mechanical Code, are hereby adopted by reference as
adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission.
(Prior Code § 5-101)
10-1-2: ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the BOCA Basic Building Code are hereby revised:
Section 100.1, insert “City of Morris”.
Section 114.3.1, insert: “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with
subsection
10-1-5A of the City Code, or as may be set or amended by ordinance or
resolution”.
Section 117.4, insert: “Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as
provided in section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Section 118.2, insert: “fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Section 123.3, insert: “as set by the City Council”.
Section 501.2, insert: “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided in
subsection
10-1-4A of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Sections 1807.2.1, and 1807.22, insert: “a number of feet to be determined by
the City Council by motion or resolution” in both locations.
Section 1906.1, insert: “Amounts as set by the City Council by motion or
resolution”.
(Prior Code § 5-102)
10-1-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The City Council shall appoint the Building Inspector. The
Building Inspector may also hold other positions in the City government.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Building Inspector of the City shall have the
powers and duties prescribed for the “Building Official” by this Code and the
Building Code. His powers and duties may be exercised by his authorized
representatives under his supervision and control.
(Prior Code § 5-104)
10-1-4: FIRE LIMITS; WOOD SHINGLES:
   A.   Fire Limits: The fire limits of the City are as established in section
10-5-3 of this title.
(Prior Code § 5-106)
   B.   Wood Shingles Permitted Outside Fire Limits: Notwithstanding provisions
of the Building Code, wood shingles may be used outside of the fire limits for
roofing on dwellings and on buildings accessory to dwellings, such as private
garages and barns.
(Prior Code § 5-107)
10-1-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved without a building permit issued by the City Clerk as follows:
         a.   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the
outside appearance;
         b.   Whenever changes will amount to more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in cost; or
         c.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
City to a location within the City or from one location in the City to another
location within the City.
      2.   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the City Clerk. The applicant shall submit with the application
such reasonable information as the Clerk may require, to enable him to
determine whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the
requirements of the ordinances of the City.
      3.   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Clerk shall issue the permit upon the payment by the
applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion or resolution of
the City Council. A current copy of the fee schedule shall be kept in the
Office of the City Clerk.
      4.   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building.
(Prior Code § 5-108)
   B.   Conditions For Permit Issuance:
      1.   A building permit shall be issued by the City Clerk only after the
Building Official has determined that the proposed building site is reasonably
safe from flooding; or if a flood hazard exists, any proposed new construction
or substantial improvement, including prefabricated and mobile homes, must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      2.   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or any other
legal entity shall construct or cause to be constructed any structure or
substantial improvement to any structure, residential, industrial, commercial
or otherwise, without first obtaining a permit to construct same from the City.
      3.   Proposed subdivisions and land use areas shall be reviewed to assure
that:
         a.   All proposals for construction provide for methods to minimize
flood damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewerage, gas,
electrical service and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      4.   All new or replacement water supply systems or sanitary sewerage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into the floodwater.
(Prior Code § 5-109)
10-1-6: REQUIRED INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Any person applying for an inspection for electrical service, gas
pressure test inspections, sewer tap inspections or water tap inspections shall
pay an administrative permit fee as set by motion or resolution of the City
Council.
   B.   In addition, any State fees which the City is required to collect shall
be paid by the applicant at the time of the application. As of the effective
date hereof, the State fee is four dollars ($4.00), but the fee actually
collected shall be the fee as it may be changed from time to time by the State
of Oklahoma.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to improve gas service, or to tap a
public water line, or to tap a public sewer line without calling for and
receiving a successful inspection of such work by the City. Provided, that for
purpose of the tap and inspection only, any connection to a private service
water line or private sewer line which line is itself connected directly or
through a meter to a public line shall be considered a tap on a public line.
(Prior Code § 5-110)
10-1-7: NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS:
All houses and commercial buildings within the corporate limits of the City
shall be numbered with suitable numbers that are clearly visible and clearly
legible from the roadway.
(Ord. 312-18, 5-23-2018)
10-1-8: DEMOLITION PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall demolish any building, structure, mobile or modular
home, or other construction without first obtaining a separate demolition
permit for each such building or structure from the City of Morris.
Applications will be made available to the public by the City Clerk.
   B.   Applications for demolition permits shall contain all applicable
information required on the demolition permit form and such additional
information as may be required of the applicant by the City Clerk, the City
Superintendent, or the Mayor. The Mayor shall decide whether to approve or
reject an application.
   C.   Demolition permit fees shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). This
amount will be returned to the applicant if the permit application is rejected.
If a permit application is rejected the applicant may appeal to the Morris City
Council where it will be considered at the regular monthly meeting. The
decision of the City Council is final.
   D.   If the work allowed under an issued demolition permit has not been
initiated within one (1) month from the issuance day of said permit and
completed within two (2) months, such permit shall become null and void unless
a request for an extension is submitted to, and approved by, the Mayor. If said
permit becomes null and void, a new permit must be obtained and the regular fee
incident thereto collected, in order for the work to be initiated or resumed.
   E.   The Mayor may revoke a building permit in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or
attached materials on which the demolition permit approval was based.
   F.   Any entity that is contracted by the City of Morris for the purpose of
the demolition of a building shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 322-20, 7-13-2020)
10-1-9: PENALTY; RELIEF IN COURTS:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any
business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by this title, without having a valid license, permit,
certificate, or certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to
do anything required by this title or by any code adopted by this title, or who
shall otherwise violate any provision of the chapters in this title or of any
code adopted by this title, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in this title, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 5-801)
   B.   Relief In Courts: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title
shall interfere with the right of the City also to apply to the proper courts
of the State for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person, firm or corporation.
(Prior Code § 5-802)
CHAPTER 2: PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
10-2-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
10-2-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes To Plumbing Code
10-2-3: Plumbing Inspector; Office Created; Duties
10-2-4: Plumber's Registration Required; Fee
10-2-5: Plumbing Permit Required; Fee
10-2-6: Plumbing Inspection Fee
10-2-7: Sand And Grease Traps For Garages
10-2-8: Depositing Waste Oil Or Grease In Sewer Prohibited
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
A certain document, at least three (3) copies of which are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as “2015 International
Plumbing Code”, is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the City for the
control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this Code, with
additions, insertions and changes prescribed in section
10-2-2 of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 5-201)
10-2-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
Section P-100.1 (page 5, second line). Insert the “City of Morris”.
Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line). Insert “September 1, 1982”.
Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line). Insert “as provided in section
10-2-4 of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines). Insert “offense and
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line). Insert “fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of the City Code of Ordinances”.
Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line). Insert “a distance in feet as determined
by the City Council”.
Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines). Insert “a depth in feet as
determined by the City Council”.
(Prior Code § 5-202)
10-2-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES:
The office of Inspector of Plumbing is hereby created. The Building Inspector
shall be the Plumbing Inspector unless some other person is appointed by the
Mayor. Such inspector shall make inspection and testing of all plumbing and
sewer connections done within the City and shall have the right to deputize any
person equally qualified to make the actual inspections and reports. He shall
carry out the performance of this chapter. The testing of plumbing shall be
done by filling all drains with water to the roof, and such other tests as the
inspector shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code § 5-208)
10-2-4: PLUMBER’S REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation
of a journeyman plumber, a plumbing contractor or a plumber's apprentice unless
he is registered as such with the Plumbing Inspector of the City.
   B.   The registration fees to be paid to the City Clerk are as follows:
      1.   For annual registration as a journeyman plumber, twenty five dollars
($25.00), and to renew, twelve dollars fifty cents ($12.50);
      2.   For annual registration as a plumbing contractor, fifty dollars
($50.00), and to renew, twenty five dollars ($25.00); and
      3.   For annual registration as a plumber’s apprentice, no charge.
(Prior Code § 5-204)
10-2-5: PLUMBING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No plumbing work shall be undertaken within the City without a permit
therefor from the Plumbing Inspector.
   B.   The fees to be paid for a plumbing permit shall be as provided by the
City Council by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code § 5-205)
10-2-6: PLUMBING INSPECTION FEE:
The City Council, by motion or resolution, may set fees for inspection of
plumbing fixtures and installations regulated by the City Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code § 5-210)
10-2-7: SAND AND GREASE TRAPS FOR GARAGES:
Every garage, automobile service station, repair shop and car washing rack
maintained in the City and having connection with the sanitary sewer system of
the City for the disposition of wastewater, shall have installed on the waste
line from the car wash sump a suitable sand and grease trap that will
effectively prevent entrance into the sewer system of sand and grease, and
shall be constructed substantially to conform to State Health Department design
for the same. The traps shall be skimmed of oil and grease at regular
intervals, and shall be kept in proper operating condition at all times.
(Prior Code § 5-206)
10-2-8: DEPOSITING OF WASTE OIL OR GREASE IN SEWER PROHIBITED:
The depositing of waste oil or grease in the sanitary sewer system of the City
or permitting same to be done is hereby specifically prohibited.
(Prior Code § 5-207)
CHAPTER 3: ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
10-3-1: Electrical Equipment Defined
10-3-2: Compliance With National Electrical Code
10-3-3: Conformance With Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
10-3-4: Special Rulings By City Council
10-3-5: Electrical Inspector
10-3-6: Electricians; Registration Required
10-3-7: Bond For Electrical Contractors
10-3-8: Electrical Installations; Permit Required; Issuance
10-3-9: Inspection Fee
10-3-10: Specific Requirements
10-3-1: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure.
(Prior Code § 5-301)
10-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   The 2014 National Electrical Code is hereby adopted by reference as
adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission.
   B.   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, with the Statutes of the State and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property.
   C.   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this chapter or by the
Statutes of the State or by any orders, rules, or regulations issued by
authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set forth in the current
issue of the National Electrical Code, as approved by the American Insurance
Association, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code § 5-302)
10-3-3: CONFORMANCE WITH UNDERWRITERS’ LABORATORIES, INC.:
   A.   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, the Statutes of the State and any orders, rules
and regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property.
   B.   Unless by this chapter, by a Statute of the State or any orders, rules,
or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or class of
electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use, conformity with
the standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property.
(Prior Code § 5-303)
10-3-4: SPECIAL RULINGS BY CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall have the authority to make
special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and
property and the improvement of electrical installations. In all cases, persons
engaged in the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical
license must be notified by letter of these decisions.
(Prior Code § 5-304)
10-3-5: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The Electrical Inspector shall be the Building Inspector unless another person
is appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code § 5-310)
10-3-6: ELECTRICIANS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without registering and securing a certificate from the Electrical
Inspector and a license from the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   Before such certificate is issued, the fee, as follows, shall be paid
to the City Clerk:
      1.   Electrical contractor's license, fifty dollars ($50.00), and renewal
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00);
      2.   Journeyman electrician, twenty five dollars ($25.00), and renewal
fee of twelve dollars fifty cents ($12.50); and
      3.   Apprentice electrician, no charge.
(Prior Code § 5-311)
10-3-7: BOND FOR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Bond Required; Conditions: Every person receiving a certificate as an
electrical contractor shall file with the City Building Inspector a bond in the
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), executed with a surety company
authorized to do business in the State, and conditioned that:
      1.   The principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances, and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the City relating to electrical installations and in a
workmanlike manner;
      2.   The principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom the
work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship
or inferior or nonstandard material; and
      3.   The City will be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and
all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his work as an
electrical contractor.
   B.   Approval: The bond must be approved by the City Building Inspector. No
license shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been filed
and approved. Any such license issued shall be valid only while the bond is in
effect.
(Prior Code § 5-312)
   C.   Certificate Or Bond Not Required: For the installing of bell,
telephone, or signal systems not using over twelve (12) volts, no certificate
or bond will be required, but the installation of same must comply with all
other requirements of the ordinances of the City.
(Prior Code § 5-313)
10-3-8: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of the City or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first securing a permit from the City Clerk.
   B.   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the City Clerk;
and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications, and other data as
may be reasonably required.
   C.   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion or
resolution passed by the City Council.
(Prior Code § 5-308)
10-3-9: INSPECTION FEE:
The City Council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an inspection fee to
be paid to the City when electrical installations are inspected by the
Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code § 5-309)
10-3-10: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Pilot Light Required For Iron In Mercantile Occupancies: In all
mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must be installed
with an approved pilot light. If the pilot light is in an enclosure such as an
alteration room, an additional light must be installed in a visible position
outside the enclosure.
(Prior Code § 5-305)
   B.   Branch Circuits: In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting
branch circuits shall be confined to one thousand (1,000) watts, and not more
than eight (8) outlets per circuit will be allowed in the fire limits. Branch
circuit conductors shall be smaller than No. 12. Type C lamp cord will not be
permitted in the kitchen of restaurants or like places where grease
accumulates, nor in part of a building where live poultry is confined.
(Prior Code § 5-306)
   C.   Basement Installations: A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be
installed in basements in any area subject to floods. Ground connections shall
not be made in toilets, adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors, or in any
location where the grounding conductor and fitting is likely to become
corroded.
(Prior Code § 5-307)
CHAPTER 4: HOUSING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
10-4-1: Housing Code Adopted
10-4-2: Additions And Changes To Housing Code
10-4-1: HOUSING CODE ADOPTED:
Code Adopted: The 2015 International Residential Code is hereby adopted as the
Housing Code of the City for the control of buildings and structures as therein
provided. Each and all of the regulations of the 2015 International Residential
Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part of this Code
by reference, as if fully set out in this Code, with the additions, deletions
and changes prescribed in section
10-4-2 of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the Code are kept on file
in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code § 5-701)
10-4-2: ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO HOUSING CODE:
The following sections of the BOCA One and Two Family Dwelling Code are hereby
revised as follows:
   A.   The “City of Morris” shall be inserted for the name of the
jurisdiction; and
   B.   The penalty for violation of the Code shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 in the City Code of Ordinances.
(Prior Code § 5-702)
CHAPTER 5: FIRE CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
10-5-1: Adoption And Enforcement Of Fire Code
10-5-2: Modifications To Fire Code
10-5-3: Fire Limits
10-5-4: Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Explosives
10-5-5: Appeals
10-5-6: Penalty
10-5-1: ADOPTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF FIRE CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the 2015
International Fire Code, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended. Not less than three (3) copies of the Code have
been and now are filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From and
after September 1, 1982, the provisions of the 2015 International Fire Code
shall be controlling within the limits of the City.
(Prior Code § 13-101)
   B.   Definition: Wherever the word “Municipality” is used in the 2015
International Fire Code hereby adopted, it shall be held to mean the “City of
Morris”.
(Prior Code § 13-103)
   C.   Enforcement: The Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of
the Fire Department.
(Prior Code § 13-102)
10-5-2: MODIFICATIONS TO FIRE CODE:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Code hereby adopted in his own discretion or upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the Code;
provided, that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications, when
granted or allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department
thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department, and for
applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code § 13-105)
10-5-3: FIRE LIMITS:
The following shall be, and are hereby declared to be, the established fire
limits for the City: Beginning at the south property line of the City running
north to the north property line on Main Street, and from Second Street east to
Third Street.
(Prior Code § 13-107)
10-5-4: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES:
The limits referred to in section 73, Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in section 103, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
restricted, and the limits referred to in section 53b, in which storage of
explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as the
fire limits provided in section
10-5-3 of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 13-104)
10-5-5: APPEALS:
Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Council within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code § 13-106)
10-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Prior Code § 13-108)
CHAPTER 6: GAS CODES
Section
10-6-1: Liquefied Petroleum Gas Pamphlet Adopted
10-6-2: International Fuel Gas Code Adopted
10-6-1: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PAMPHLET ADOPTED:
   A.   Compliance With Law; License Or Permit Requirements: It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install,
or repair any system, container, apparatus, or appliance to be used for the
transportation, storage, dispensing, or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas,
or to transport, handle, or store such gas, unless such person has complied
with and complies with all provisions of the law and ordinances relating
thereto, and has any license or permit which may be required by State law.
   B.   Pamphlet Adopted: The Liquified Petroleum Gases, Storage and Handling
Pamphlet, issued by the National Fire Protection Association, being the latest
edition thereof, also adopted by the Oklahoma Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board,
shall have full force and effect within the City.
   C.   Violation: Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed
a violation of the ordinances of the City and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code § 5-501)
10-6-2: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Code Adopted: That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on
file in the Office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 edition, including all appendix chapters
thereto, is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the City for regulating and
governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor;
providing for each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code. Said Code shall be on file in the
Office of the City, and is hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof,
as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions and
deletions and changes prescribed under subsection B of this section.
(Prior Code § 5-601)
   B.   Revisions To Fuel Gas Code: The following sections of the 2015
International Fuel Gas Code are hereby revised:
      1.   Insert “the City of Morris” for [Name of Jurisdiction].
      2.   Insert “offense” for [Specify Offense], and substitute the words
“under Morris Municipal Code section
1-4-1” in place of all of the words in the sentence following “of not more than
[amount]..”; insert “not less than $250.00” for the words “not less than
[amount]” and insert "the maximum fine under Morris Municipal Code section
1-4-1 in place of the word [amount] in the final phrase of the last sentence.
      3.   Delete all substantive references to an appeal and in its place
shall be inserted “Appeal. Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision
of the Code Official to the Mayor or the designee. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this Code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this Code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction
is proposed. The application shall be filed within 20 days after the notice was
served on a form obtained from the Code Official”.
(Prior Code § 5-602)
   C.   Fees: The City Council, or in the absence of Council resolution, the
Mayor, shall establish the fee schedule which shall constitute the building
fees to be charged by the City for the services and permits issued under this
Code. Each applicant for a permit under this Code shall pay to the City Clerk
or other designee a fee to be computed under that schedule.
(Prior Code § 5-603)
CHAPTER 7: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME COURTS
Section
10-7-1: Definition
10-7-2: Location Restrictions
10-7-3: Mobile Home Standards And Requirements
10-7-4: Mobile Home Court Standards And Requirements
10-7-5: Mobile Home Court Permit, Space Requirement
10-7-6: Penalty
10-7-1: DEFINITION:
MOBILE HOME, when used in this chapter, means a single-family dwelling designed
for transportation on streets and highways on its own wheels or on flat-bed or
other trailers, both highway and rail, and arriving at the site where it is to
be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor
and incidental unpacking and assembling operations, location on jacks or
permanent foundations, connection to utilities and similar operations.
(Prior Code § 5-401)
10-7-2: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location On Lot: No person shall hereafter install or occupy a mobile
home within the City, unless such mobile home is located within a lot zoned for
mobile home use and is the only residence on said lot. The maintenance or
operation of an owner-occupied nonconforming mobile home in existence on July
1, 2010, may be continued without the requirement for an additional permit, but
in the event such a mobile home is removed or destroyed, it may not be replaced
without complying with the requirements of this Code, as they may then exist at
the time the work is to be performed.
   B.   Temporary Location:
      1.   Builders, subdividers, exhibitors and others who desire to use
mobile homes temporarily at certain locations only for field offices,
demonstrations and exhibitions of certain equipment may do so upon application
by the proposed user for a temporary license and issuance by the City Clerk
under the direction of the City Inspector.
      2.   Other commercial uses, including rental as a dwelling place shall
not be allowed.
      3.   The charge for the license shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) and
issued for not longer than ninety (90) days, unless renewed.
      4.   Charitable and nonprofit organizations who wish to use a mobile home
temporarily for charitable purposes shall obtain the same license for no fee.
      5.   The City Inspector may require that a temporary license not be
issued as provided for herein, until proper water and sanitary sewer
connections are installed to the temporary mobile home, if he finds this in the
best interest of the health and welfare of the community.
   C.   Modular Housing Units: No person shall hereafter install or occupy a
modular housing unit, unless said unit is located within a lot zoned for
modular housing use and is the only residence on said lot, or unless the
modular housing unit was placed on a permanent foundation, on site from at
least three (3) other unit components, and has a site built roofing system
installed. The maintenance or operation of an owner-occupied nonconforming
modular housing unit in existence on July 1, 2010, may be continued without the
requirement for an additional permit, but in the event such a modular home is
removed or destroyed, it may not be replaced without complying with the
requirements of this Code, as they may then exist at the time the work is to be
performed.
(Prior Code § 5-402)
10-7-3: MOBILE HOME STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile homes shall conform to all the regulations and provisions of the Housing
Code adopted by the City and to any rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto (see chapter 4 of this title), with the following exceptions or
additions:
A.   Density Standards: Minimum lot areas for mobile homes shall conform to the
following standards:
 
Length Of Mobile Home Unit Minimum Lot Area
Up to 40 feet              1,600 square feet
40 to 50 feet              1,900 square feet
50 to 60 feet              2,400 square feet
Over 60 feet               2,800 square feet
 
   B.   Maximum Occupancy: The maximum number of occupants of a mobile home
shall be limited to the number determined on the basis of the square feet of
habitable floor area, exclusive of habitable floor area used for cooking
purposes, in accordance with the following:
      1.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for one or two (2) occupants;
      2.   Two hundred fifty (250) square feet for three (3) occupants; and
      3.   Eighty (80) square feet additional for each occupant thereof.
   C.   Minimum Floor Widths: Minimum floor widths shall be in accordance with
generally accepted standards of the mobile home industry.
   D.   Habitable Space: Habitable space shall have a minimum ceiling height of
seven feet (7') over fifty percent (50%) of the floor area; and the floor area
where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not be considered in
computing habitable floor area.
   E.   Additional Requirements: A mobile home, whether located in a mobile
home court or on a temporary permit under the “grandfather clause” as herein
elsewhere provided, shall:
      1.   Have a safe and unobstructed primary exit and an emergency exit
located remote from the primary exit;
      2.   Be set back at least twenty feet (20') from all property lines,
streets and alleys;
      3.   Have an Underwriter’s Laboratory approved and working smoke alarm;
and
      4.   Be equipped with tie-down apparatus, and the apparatus shall be
installed under the inspection and supervision of the City Inspector. The
minimum tie-down requirements shall be:
 
Over Length Of Frame Ties Per Home Ties Per Or Frame Ties Per Over Home Ties
Home           Side           Side             Side           Per Side
31' to 50'     5              2                2              5
51' to 70'     6              2                3              5
71' and over   7              2                3              6
 
with the following anchor requirements:
            (1)   Auger or deadman, six inches (6") diameter - arrowhead eight
inches (8");
            (2)   Auger or arrowhead depth, four feet (4') - deadman five feet
(5');
            (3)   Anchor rod five-eighths inch (5/8") diameter with welded eye
at top. Hook into concrete when used in deadman anchors;
and the following connector requirements:
            (1)   Galvanized steel strap - 11/4 inches x 0.035 inch with
tension device;
            (2)   Galvanized or stainless steel cable - three-eighths inch (3/
8") (7 x 7 - 7 wires each);
            (3)   Cable ends secured by two (2) U-bolt clamps;
            (4)   Steel rods - five-eighths inch (5/8") with ends welded
closed;
            (5)   Turnbuckles - one-half inch (½") drop forged - closed eyes;
and the following blocking and footing requirements:
            (1)   Spaced at ten feet (10') intervals on both frame rails with
end footing no farther than five feet (5') from the end of the home;
            (2)   Blockings of eight inches by eight inches by sixteen inches
(8" x 8" x 16") celled concrete block with cells placed vertically, topped with
solid four inch (4") concrete cap and moisture barrier;
            (3)   Treated shims for leveling; and
            (4)   Perimeters of fourteen feet (14') wide and over must be
blocked adjacent to over-the-home ties;
            (5)   Demonstrate that it has or can meet the provisions of the
Standard Mobile Homes, ANSI Al 19.1 or any State administered code ensuring
equal or better construction, plumbing, heating or electrical installation and
the provisions of the applicable City codes and regulations; and
            (6)   Be fully skirted in a manner to match the decor of the home
and neighborhood.
   F.   Cooking And Refrigeration Equipment: A mobile home shall contain
cooking equipment and refrigeration equipment of an approved type for mobile
home installation.
   G.   Garbage And Refuse: Suitable containers shall be provided for the
temporary storage of garbage and refuse within the mobile home.
(Prior Code § 5-403)
10-7-4: MOBILE HOME COURT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Standards And Conditions: Mobile home courts shall be designed and
constructed to conform to applicable zoning and building regulations and
generally accepted standards for mobile home courts, and shall meet the
following conditions:
      1.   Mobile home courts shall have adequate facilities for drainage of
surface and subsurface water. This shall include proper grading and
installation, where necessary, of gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain
inlets, or other satisfactory drainage systems;
      2.   Walks, driveways, and parking spaces shall be provided with a sealed
surface and arranged in a manner that provides safe and convenient access under
normal use and weather conditions;
      3.   Wires installed above driveways and parking spaces shall have a
clearance of not less than eighteen feet (18');
      4.   Mobile home courts shall be properly maintained so as to assure the
desirable residential character of the property; and
      5.   No occupied travel or vacation trailer or other form of temporary
living units shall be permitted in a mobile home court.
   B.   Utilities: A mobile home court shall be provided with the following
utilities which shall have sufficient capacity to supply the requirements of
the mobile home court and the maximum number of mobile homes which will be
located there: water supply system, sewage disposal system, and electrical
system, which shall meet the following conditions:
      1.   The water supply system shall be designed to provide a sufficient
supply of potable water, under adequate pressure to outlets serving mobile
homes, community structures, drinking fountains, hose connections and hydrants;
      2.   A sewage disposal system shall provide each mobile home and
community structures containing plumbing fixtures with an approved, adequate,
and safe method of sewage disposal:
         a.   No untreated sewage from such a plumbing system shall be disposed
of into any waters of the State; and
         b.   Where a public sewage disposal system is not available, an
adequate private sewage disposal system, approved by the Health Officer, shall
be provided; and
      3.   The electrical system shall be designed to provide adequate capacity
to supply the connected load without exceeding the current carrying capacity of
the conductors.
   C.   Fuel Supply And Storage: Community fuel supply and storage requirements
are as follows:
      1.   A gas piping system, if installed, shall be designed to provide a
supply of gas sufficient to meet the maximum demand without undue loss of
pressure at the connection to the mobile home farthest from the source of
supply;
      2.   Liquefied petroleum gas storage containers having a capacity
exceeding one hundred twenty five (125) gallons shall be located not less than
twenty five feet (25') from the nearest mobile home, structure, building and
lot line and shall be so located and protected that they will not be subject to
damage from moving vehicles; and
      3.   Fuel oil and other flammable materials shall be stored so as not to
be a fire hazard.
   D.   Property Maintenance Conditions: A mobile home court shall be
maintained in a safe, sanitary, and orderly condition, and shall meet the
following property maintenance conditions:
      1.   Premises shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards;
      2.   Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowths;
accumulations of plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to health shall
be eliminated;
      3.   Grounds and structures shall be maintained free of insect, vermin,
and rodent harborage and infestation;
      4.   Exterior wood surfaces of structures that are not inherently
resistant to deterioration shall be periodically treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative;
      5.   Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the
collection, storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse; and
      6.   Domestic animals and pets shall be kept in an appropriate manner and
shall not be permitted to run at large.
(Prior Code § 5-404)
10-7-5: MOBILE HOME COURT PERMIT, SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every person operating a mobile home court, mobile home park, or any
such parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of
two (2) or more mobile homes shall secure from the Health Officer a mobile home
court permit. Such permit shall specify that the mobile home court is in
conformance with all provisions of this chapter and any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant hereto.
   B.   No permit for a mobile home court shall be issued unless the court is
to be located on at least five (5) acres of land.
(Prior Code § 5-405)
10-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or association found in violation of any portion
of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense, in addition to any civil remedy
or penalty available. Each day’s violation is a separate offense and punishable
as such.
(Prior Code § 5-406)
TITLE 11: FLOOD CONTROL
Chapter
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION   1
CHAPTER 1: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization; Findings; Purpose
11-1-2: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
11-1-5: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-1-6: Compliance; Interpretation; Liability Disclaimer
11-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
11-1-8: Development Permit Requirements
11-1-9: Variance Procedures
11-1-10: General Standards In Flood Hazard Areas
11-1-11: Specific Standards In Flood Hazard Areas
11-1-12: Subdivisions
11-1-13: Floodways
11-1-14: Fee Schedule
11-1-15: Penalties For Noncompliance
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS; PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has
in 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 1601 et seq., as amended, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt provisions designed to
minimize flood losses.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-2: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the City of
Morris subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
BFE: Base flood elevation.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CFR: Code of Federal Regulations.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the City of Morris Floodplain
Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in
Zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X,
“elevated building” also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FIRM: Flood Insurance Rate Map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An Official Map of the City of Morris on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the City of Morris.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA for the City of
Morris which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the City of Morris subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the
City Council of the City of Morris to administer and implement laws, ordinances
and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in section
11-1-5 of this chapter. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
      2.   Individually listed on the State of Oklahoma Inventory of Historic
Places by the State Historic Preservation Office of the Oklahoma Historical
Society.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of title 44 CFR.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the City of Morris’ Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the City of Morris City Council and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the City of Morris City
Council.
OWRB: The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Public Law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The “actual start” means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first ...
11-1-4: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-5: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for Okmulgee County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas”, dated January 6, 2011, with the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), were hereby adopted on January 6, 2011, by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. However, until this date,
the current effective flood maps for the City, dated June 29, 1982, shall be
used for this purpose until January 6, 2011.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-6: COMPLIANCE; INTERPRETATION; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER:
   A.   Compliance Required: No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   B.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   C.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes.
   D.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions,
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The City Council shall designate a Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of National Flood Insurance Program regulations in
title 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010; amd. 2020 Code)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1620.1, as amended.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
      4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   Require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the base
flood elevation on two (2) FEMA elevation certificates, one pre and one post,
as well as other data as required in order to administer the provisions of
sections
11-1-10, 11-1-11, 11-1-12 and
11-1-13 of this chapter.
      9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as
delineated on the Okmulgee County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
City.
      10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the City, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement.
      11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the City Council.
      12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit; Required Information: An application for a
development permit shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms
furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   C.   Approval Or Denial:
      1.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
for that area.
      2.   The Floodplain Administrator or City Council, as applicable, may
approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the Okmulgee County
FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than
one foot (1'); provided, that the applicant for the development permit in that
case first complies with 44 CFR section 65.12.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-9: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The City Council may grant variances for uses which do not satisfy
the requirements of the Oklahoma Floodplain Management Act or this chapter, if
the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that: a) compliance with
this chapter will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property
without sufficient benefit or advantage to the people; and b) satisfies the
pertinent provisions of this section. However, no variance shall be granted
where the effect of the variance will be to permit the continuance of a
condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
      2.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the State.
      3.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
      4.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the City
Council, accompanied by a filing fee as set forth in section
11-1-1 of this chapter.
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (½) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
11-1-8C of this chapter and provisions of this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (½) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      6.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chair of the City Council
which states that: a) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and b) such construction below the base flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      7.   At such time as the City Council deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the City Council shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in Okmulgee County at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.
      8.   The City Council shall conduct the hearing and make determinations
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section. This appeals
group shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the
advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the public at large when
determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      9.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      10.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in subsection
11-1-1C of this chapter.
      11.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the City Council shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance.
   B.   Special Provisions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that:
         a.   The criteria of subsections A5, A9, B2 and B3 of this section are
met; and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-10: GENERAL STANDARDS IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-11: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a minimum of one
foot (1') above the base flood elevation, or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy up to one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection is satisfied.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed anywhere within
the City within Zones A and AE on the City FIRM shall be installed using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-
beam elevated at or above the BFE. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home shall be
installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma State law, and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the Okmulgee County FIRM shall:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of section
11-1-8 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection D of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the Okmulgee County FIRM shall comply with the following:
      1.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      2.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      3.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      4.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      5.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      6.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      7.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
      8.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
      9.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      10.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-12: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A and AE which is fifty one (51) or more lots or greater than five (5)
acres shall generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   B.   All subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   C.   All subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-13: FLOODWAYS:
The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
   A.   Encroachments including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the City during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section and sections
11-1-10, 11-1-11 and
11-1-12 of this chapter.
   C.   The City may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations; provided, that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR section 65.12.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-14: FEE SCHEDULE:
The City Council establishes the following fee schedule as set by motion or
resolution of the City Council:
   A.   Notice of intent fee: a fee as set by motion or resolution of the City
Council.
   B.   Floodplain development permit application review: a fee as set by
motion or resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Floodplain development permit fee: a fee as set by motion or resolution
of the City Council.
   D.   Inspection fee, per inspection: a fee as set by motion or resolution of
the City Council.
   E.   Variance filing fee: a fee as set by motion or resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
11-1-15: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the City Council or its City Attorney from taking such other lawful action as
is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 297-10, 12-13-2010)
 
