CITY CODE OF
NEW CORDELL, OK
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-20-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of New Cordell, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2023-1, passed 3-20-2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-04
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF NEW
CORDELL, OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE;
PROVIDING FOR SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEW CORDELL, OKLAHOMA;
Section 1 Title.
 
A code and revision of the ordinances of the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma is
hereby adopted as the "code of ordinances, city of New Cordell, Oklahoma," or
by any other properly identifying designation.
 
Section 2 Code Supersedes Other Ordinances.
 
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
compilation of ordinances of the city which shall supersede all other general
and permanent ordinances enacted by the council prior to October 20, 2014.
However, all provisions which are incorporated by reference are expressly saved
from repeal and shall continue in full force and effect.
 
Section 3 Effective Date Of Code, Repeal.
 
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the city in effect on or before October 20, 2014, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
 
Section 4 Ordinances Not Repealed.
 
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or act
committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the city nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the city council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any right or
franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city council to any
person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, vacating,
etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any
annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance extending
the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be construed to revive any
ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by this ordinance. The continuance in effect of temporary or
special ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code,
shall not be affected by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code
shall not repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
 
Section 5 Code Not New Enactment.
 
The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
 
Section 6 Ordinances Adopted After Effective Date Of Code.
 
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted either:
 
1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
 
2.   Without specific reference to the code.
 
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made
in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance
of the council, as provided hereinafter.
 
Section 7 Supplements To Code.
 
Any modification or supplement to the code of ordinances shall be updated
electronically and/or printed as authorized by the city council. A change to
the code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during
the period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. All
changes shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and,
where necessary, replace provisions which have become obsolete or partially
obsolete, and new provisions shall be so prepared that, when they have been
inserted, the code will be sequentially numbered and updated as required. The
city clerk shall be responsible for updating all official copies of the code
maintained by the city and placed in the Washita County Law Library as required
by state statute.
 
Section 8 Sale Of Copies Of The Code.
 
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code of
ordinances to the public at a price determined from time to time by motion or
resolution of the city council.
 
Section 9 Copy Of Code In Clerk's Office.
 
A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk. This copy of the code shall be
available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be considered by the
city clerk as may be required.
 
Section 10 Preparation Of Code.
 
The code of ordinances hereby adopted was prepared by Sterling Codifiers and
consists of twelve (12) titles, all of which have been examined, considered and
approved by the council of the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma, and adopted by
compliance with sections 14-109 et seq. of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
 
Section 11 Emergency.
 
Reference being made to "section 3" hereinbefore set out, it is immediately
necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of the city and
the inhabitants thereof that the provisions of this code not heretofore enacted
be put into full force and effect. An emergency is hereby declared to exist, by
reason whereof this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, as provided by law.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED this 20th day of October, 2014, by the mayor and city
council of the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma.
 
 
      /s/   
      Robert (Bob) Plummer, Mayor
[IMAGE]
ATTEST:/s/   
Sharee Lewis, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
New Cordell City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions; Interpretation   3
General Penalty   4
Official And Corporate Provisions   5
Form Of Government; Mayor And City Council   6
City Officers And Personnel   7
Retirement And Pensions   8
Municipal Court   9
City Records   10
CHAPTER 1
NEW CORDELL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title; Authority
1-1-2: Acceptance Of Code
1-1-3: Conflicting Provisions
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Jurisdiction
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE; AUTHORITY:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of New Cordell. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the NEW CORDELL CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections
14-108 and 14-109 and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1997 Code § 1-103; amd. 2014 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE OF CODE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2014 Code)
1-1-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the provisions of different titles, chapters, articles or sections
of this code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each
title, chapter, article or section shall prevail as to all matters and
questions growing out of the subject matter of that title, chapter, article or
section.
   B.   If clearly conflicting provisions are found in different sections of
the same chapter, the provisions of the section last enacted shall prevail
unless the construction is inconsistent with the meaning of that section. (1997
Code § 1-104)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2014 Code)
1-1-5: JURISDICTION:
   A.   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby
extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city
outside the corporate limits of the city, and are in full effect therein,
insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into
effect in the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the
boundaries of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable.
   B.   Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance
provision is limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to
mean and include also the outlying real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1997
Code § 1-113)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2014 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2014 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is
imposed upon a public officer or employee, the power may be performed by an
authorized deputy or designee or by any person authorized pursuant to law or
ordinance, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of New Cordell".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Definitions: Definitions given within a chapter or article apply only
to words or phrases used in such chapter or article unless otherwise provided.
   K.   Law: Applicable federal law and court decisions, court decisions and
provisions of the constitution and statutes of the state and ordinances of the
city and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1997 Code §
1-102; amd. 2014 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code and all ordinances, the following definitions
shall be observed unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and
city council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person appointed by the mayor and designated as the
city's building official.
   CITY: The city of New Cordell, in the county of Washita and state of
Oklahoma.
   COUNCIL: The governing body of the city, the city council.
   COUNTY: Washita County, Oklahoma.
   HEALTH OFFICER: Administrator of the cooperative department of the county
and the city.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
   PERSON: Any individual, natural person, joint stock company, partnership,
voluntary association, club, firm, company, corporation, business trust,
organization, or any other bodies corporate or politic or group acting as a
unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, partner, member, director,
officer or employee of any of them including an executor, administrator,
trustee, receiver, or other representative appointed according to law.
   STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
   STATUTES: The Oklahoma Statutes as they are now or as they may be amended to
be. (1997 Code §§ 1-102, 10-103; amd. 2014 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Violations; General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-4: Relief By Civil Action
1-4-1: VIOLATIONS; GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Violation An Offense: The doing of any of the acts or things
prohibited, or failing to do any of the acts or things commanded to be done, as
more fully specified and set forth by any provision of this code or any title,
chapter or article hereof, or future ordinances of the city, is hereby declared
to be an offense against the good order, public peace, morals, health, proper
government and welfare of the city and unlawful. (1997 Code § 10-104)
   B.   Penalties Established 1 :
      1.   Whenever in this code, in any ordinance of the city, or in any rule
or regulation promulgated pursuant to this code, any act or failure to do a
required act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided herein or therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance or rule, shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), except where
another specific penalty is established in this code. If a penalty is limited
by state law, such violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum
permitted by state law or the amount declared by the city, whichever is
greater. (1997 Code § 1-108; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Each day any person is in violation of any provision of this code
and each day any such violation occurs or continues to exist shall be a
separate offense. (1997 Code § 1-109)
   C.   Effect Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The suspension or
revocation of any license, certificate or other privilege conferred by the city
shall not be regarded as a penalty for the purposes of this code but shall be
in addition thereto. (1997 Code § 1-108)
   D.   Penalty Not To Excuse Offense: The imposition of one penalty for an
offense shall not excuse it or permit it to continue, nor prevent the
imposition of further penalties, should the offenses be continued or permitted
to continue. (1997 Code § 10-105)
   E.   Aiding An Offense:
      1.   Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful or
prohibited, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1997 Code § 1-110)
      2.   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1997
Code § 10-102)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-9-20 of this title.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2014 Code)
   D.   Territorial Applicability: Except as provided otherwise, this code
refers only to the commission or omission of acts within the territorial limits
of the city and to that territory outside the city over which the city has
jurisdiction, ownership or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provision, or any law. (1992 Code § 1-112)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2014
Code)
1-4-4: RELIEF BY CIVIL ACTION:
No penalty imposed by or pursuant to section
 1-4-1 of this chapter or any other section of this code or other ordinance of
the city shall interfere with the right of the city to apply to the proper
courts of the state for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate
relief in the case of violations of this code or other ordinances. (1997 Code §
1-111)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official City Map
1-5-2: Ward Boundaries
1-5-3: Serving Notices
1-5-4: Inspections
1-5-1: OFFICIAL CITY MAP:
The map of the City showing its territorial limits, as maintained in the Office
of the City Clerk, is hereby designated as the official map of the City, and
the corporate limits as shown thereon, and as amended, are declared to be the
true and correct corporate limits of the City, including all annexations made
to the City through and including the date of July 1, 1996. (1997 Code § 1-301)
1-5-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The wards of the City shall consist of the territory within the City limits and
containing the territory shown on the ward map of the City. The ward boundaries
are as follows:
   A.   Ward 1: Ward 1 consists of all that part within and beginning at a
point where the corporate limits and West 4th Street intersect, thence east to
Grant Street, thence north to 5th Street, thence east to West Street, thence
south to 4th Street, thence east to Temple Street, thence north to 9th Street,
thence east to College Street, thence north to 13th Street, thence west to
Temple Street, thence north to 14th Street, thence west and south along the
corporate limits to the point of beginning.
   B.   Ward 2: Ward 2 consists of all of that part within and beginning at a
point where the corporate limits and North Temple Street intersect, thence
south to 13th Street, thence east to Glenn English Street, thence south to 3rd
Street, thence east to Cordell Street, thence north to 4th Street, thence east
to Magnolia Street, thence north to 5th Street, thence east to North Massingale
Drive, thence north to 8th Street, thence north on McDonald Terrace to 9th
Street, thence east to the corporate limits, thence north and west along the
corporate limits to the point of beginning.
   C.   Ward 3: Ward 3 consists of all of that part within and beginning at a
point where the corporate limits and East 9th Street intersect, thence west to
McDonald Terrace, thence south to 8th Street, thence south on North Massingale
Drive to 5th Street, thence west to Magnolia Street, thence south to 4th
Street, thence west to Cordell Street, thence south to 3rd Street, thence west
to Glenn English Street, thence south to 2nd Street, thence east to Linwood
Avenue, thence south to the corporate limits, thence east and north along the
corporate limits to the point of beginning.
   D.   Ward 4: Ward 4 consists of all that part within and beginning at a
point where the corporate limits and Linwood Avenue intersect, thence north to
2nd Street, thence west to Glenn English Street, thence north to 13th Street,
thence west to College Street, thence south to 9th Street, thence west to
Temple Street, thence south to 4th Street, thence west to West Street, thence
north to 5th Street, thence west to Grant Street, thence south to 4th Street,
thence west to the corporate limits, thence south and east along the corporate
limits to the point of beginning.
(This ward includes all of the Bonham Addition to the City of New Cordell.)
(Ord. 2018-08, 10-1-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
1-5-3: SERVING NOTICES:
   A.   Method Of Service: Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code
or applicable law, whenever a notice is required to be given pursuant to any
section of this Code, such notice shall be given either by personal delivery to
the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States mail in a sealed
envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be notified at his last
known business or residence address as the same appears in applicable City
records or other records pertaining to the matter for which such notice is
served, or by any other method of delivery approved by law. Service by mail
shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the Post
Office or any United States mailbox.
   B.   Proof Of Service: Unless otherwise specifically provided, proof of
giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or employee of
the City or by affidavit of any person over the age of eighteen (18) years who
actually accomplished personal service in conformity with this Code or other
provisions of law applicable to the subject matter concerned, or by a return
receipt signed by the recipient notified by United States mail. (1997 Code § 1-
202)
1-5-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Emergency Inspections:
      1.   To enforce the provisions of this Code, the Mayor or his designee or
any other person designated by this Code or otherwise shall have a right of
entry on premises for inspection purposes in the manner and to the extent as
may be authorized by applicable law. This right of entry shall be a condition
of any permit, license, grant or utility service with or provided by the City.
For the purpose of this subsection, inspection includes records and papers on
the premises or of the permittee, licensee, grantee or customer relating to the
permit, license, grant or service.
      2.   Emergency inspections may be authorized if the Mayor or his
designated representative has reason to believe that a condition exists which
poses an immediate threat to life, health or safety. Such procedure shall take
place in accordance with applicable law.
      3.   Where the Mayor or other designated representative is otherwise
impeded or prevented by the owner, occupant or operator from conducting an
inspection of the premises, such person shall be in violation of this
subsection A. (1997 Code § 1-203)
   B.   Search Warrant Or Access Warrant:
      1.   Any officer designated by the City to inspect a premises may, upon
affidavit, apply to the Judge of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant
setting forth factually the actual conditions and circumstances that provide a
reasonable basis for believing that a nuisance or violation of this Code may
exist, including one or more of the following:
         a.   That the premises or records require inspection according to the
cycle established by the inspecting officer for periodic inspections of
records, buildings or premises of the type involved; or
         b.   That observation of external conditions of the premises and its
public areas has resulted in the belief that violations of this Code exist.
      2.   If the Judge of competent jurisdiction is satisfied as to the
matters set forth in the affidavit, he shall authorize the issuance of a search
warrant permitting access to and inspection of that part of the premises on
which the nuisance or violation may exist. (1997 Code § 1-204)
CHAPTER 6
FORM OF GOVERNMENT; MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Aldermanic Form Of Government; Elected And Appointed Officials
1-6-2: Mayor Powers And Duties
1-6-3: Council Meetings
1-6-4: Compensation
1-6-1: ALDERMANIC FORM OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
The city is governed under the statutory aldermanic form of government. All
powers of the city shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this code, by
state statute, and in such manner prescribed by ordinances adopted by the city
council. The city council shall consist of eight (8) members, two (2) from each
ward of the city. The mayor, city clerk, city treasurer and city marshal are
elected at large. The street commissioner is appointed by the mayor, with the
approval of the city council. The council and elected officers shall have such
powers and duties as are prescribed by state law. (2014 Code)
1-6-2: MAYOR POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor shall be the chief administrative officer and head of the
administrative branch of the government of the city. He shall preside at
meetings of the council but he shall not be considered a member of the council
for quorum or voting purposes; except, that the mayor may vote on questions
under consideration by the council when the council is equally divided. The
mayor shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by state law and as may
be prescribed by ordinance. (1997 Code § 2-103)
1-6-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold its regular meeting on
the third Monday of each calendar month. If any such day falls on a day which
is not a workday for the majority of city employees, that meeting may be moved
to the next day which is a workday for the majority of city employees. Regular
meetings shall begin at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at city hall unless, in the
case of an exigency, the mayor or council shall designate another place and/or
time and shall give such notice as circumstances shall reasonably allow.
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be reconvened at any date,
time and place designated by the council at the time of adjournment.
   C.   Special, Emergency And Other Meetings: Special, emergency and other
meetings of the city council may be held on any day, at any time and at any
place designated by the mayor or by the city council in the call for the
meeting; provided, that all provisions of Oklahoma law shall be observed.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: Except as they may conflict with the provisions of
Oklahoma law, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the proceedings of any
meeting of the city council. The mayor (or such other person as may be serving
pro tempore as the chair of the meeting) is designated as the parliamentarian
and shall rule on points of order of procedure. Such rulings shall govern
unless overridden by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members of the city
council. The chair may, with the approval of a majority of the members present,
suspend the rules of procedure when the council is meeting as a committee of
the whole or at such other time as the business of the body may be more
expeditiously advanced by less formal procedures. The chair may reimpose the
rules of procedure at any time.
   E.   Consolidation With Other Meetings: The chair of any regular, special or
emergency meeting may consolidate the meeting with a contemporaneous meeting of
the governing board of any trust authority whose membership is identical to the
mayor and city council. The multiple meetings may be conducted as a single
meeting; provided, that the consolidated agenda shall clearly indicate which
items pertain to each entity. A single set of minutes may be recorded for such
meeting; provided, that the consolidated minutes shall clearly reflect which
items were taken on behalf of which entity. If consolidated minutes are
recorded, a copy shall be filed in each journal for record. (Ord. 2004-02, 4-5-
2004, eff. 5-5-2004; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 12-16-2019)
1-6-4: COMPENSATION:
Compensation of the mayor and city council shall be as provided by the
ordinances of the city. The mayor and city council may be reimbursed for
expenses actually incurred thereby in performance of their official duties,
however, no council member may receive compensation as council member or for
any other service rendered the city, other than as expenses. (1997 Code § 2-
111; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Specific City Officers
1-7-1-1: City Administrator
1-7-1-2: City Clerk
1-7-1-3: City Treasurer
1-7-1-4: City Marshal
1-7-1-5: City Attorney
1-7-2: Additional Administrative Departments, Officers And Agencies
1-7-3: Bonds
1-7-4: Acts By Deputy Or Designee
1-7-5: Records And Property To Successor
1-7-1: SPECIFIC CITY OFFICERS:
1-7-1-1: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Position Created: The position of city administrator is hereby created.
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications; Suspension Or Removal: The mayor and city
council shall have the authority to appoint a city administrator, who shall
serve at their pleasure for an indefinite term. He shall be chosen solely on
the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications. The council may
suspend or remove the city administrator at any time when such suspension or
removal has been confirmed by a majority vote of the council.
   C.   Duties: The city administrator shall be the chief administrative
assistant to the mayor and be under the supervision and direction of the mayor
and city council. He shall execute the laws and ordinances and administer the
government of the city, under the guidance and direction of the mayor and city
council. He shall:
      1.   Appoint and, when deemed necessary for the good of the service, lay
off, suspend, demote or remove all directors or heads of administrative
departments and all other administrative officers and employees of the city by
and with the consultation of the mayor and city council, except as he or his
appointing authority may authorize the head of a department, an officer, or any
agency to appoint, lay off, suspend, demote and remove subordinates in such
department, office or agency;
      2.   Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
departments, agencies, officers and employees of the city in a manner which
will fully implement the personnel and administrative organization policies
approved and adopted by the council; and examine the records and books of the
office of the city treasurer and city clerk;
      3.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the mayor and city
council, be responsible for the administration of the budget after adoption and
recommend to the council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable;
      4.   Submit to the mayor and city council a report as of the end of the
fiscal year on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the
preceding year;
      5.   Keep the mayor and city council advised of the financial condition
and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the mayor and
city council on matters of policy and other matters as may seem to him
desirable;
      6.   Attend all council meetings and have the right to speak and take
part in discussion, but not to vote; further, at these meetings, give all
department and office reports as he deems appropriate;
      7.   Prepare the council agenda items and support documentation,
arrangement of guest speakers and such other items as the council may request;
      8.   Have authority, whenever the interests of the city require, to
assign employees of any department, bureau, office or agency to the temporary
performances of duties in their respective positions or in another department,
bureau, office or agency; provided, however, that he shall recommend changes in
personnel and administrative organization policies approved and adopted by the
city council if such temporary personnel changes extend beyond ninety (90)
days; and
      9.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as the mayor and city
council may prescribe. (1997 Code § 2-104)
1-7-1-2: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Office Created; Term: The office of city clerk is hereby created with
all powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by law and ordinance. The
term of office of the city clerk shall be as established by law and ordinance.
(Ord. 2006-06, 12-4-2006)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The city clerk shall serve as clerk for the city council and shall:
         a.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the council;
         b.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the council in a
book or set of books kept for that purpose;
         c.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be
provided for by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the seal of the city;
         d.   Attest and affix the seal of the city to documents as required by
law or by ordinance; and
         e.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to his
statutory duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
      2.   The person who serves as city clerk may be employed by the city to
perform duties not related to his position as city clerk. The salary, if any,
for nonstatutory duties shall be provided separately by ordinance.
   C.   Deputy Clerk:
      1.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of deputy
city clerk who shall be known as the "deputy city clerk".
      2.   Appointment And Term: The mayor and city council shall have the
authority to appoint a deputy city clerk who shall serve at their pleasure for
an indefinite term. The deputy city clerk shall be chosen solely on the basis
of qualifications.
      3.   Duties: The deputy city clerk shall perform and be responsible for
and shall have the power to perform all the duties and functions of the city
clerk in the absence of the city clerk.
      4.   Suspension Or Removal: The city council may suspend or remove the
deputy city clerk at any time when such suspension or removal has been
confirmed by a majority vote of the council.
      5.   Compensation: The salary of the deputy city clerk shall be fixed by
motion or resolution of the city council. (1997 Code § 2-105)
1-7-1-3: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Office Created; Term: The office of city treasurer is hereby created
with all powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by law and
ordinance. The term of office of the city treasurer shall be as established by
law and ordinance. (Ord. 2006-06, 12-4-2006)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all funds coming into his
hands for the city in such depositories as the city council may designate, and
shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by applicable laws and
ordinances. He shall have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by applicable law or by ordinance.
      2.   The person who serves as city treasurer may be employed by the city
to perform other duties not related to his position as city treasurer. The
salary, if any, for the performance of such other duties shall be provided
separately in the same manner as salaries and wages for other city employees.
   C.   Deputy Treasurer:
      1.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of deputy
treasurer of the city who shall be known as the "deputy treasurer".
      2.   Appointment And Term: The mayor and city council shall have
authority to appoint a deputy treasurer who shall serve at their pleasure for
an indefinite term. The deputy treasurer shall be chosen solely on the basis of
qualifications.
      3.   Duties:
         a.   The Deputy Treasurer shall perform and be responsible for and
shall have the power to perform all the duties and functions of the Treasurer
in the absence of the Treasurer.
         b.   The person appointed as Deputy Treasurer may be employed by the
City to perform duties related to or not related to his position as Deputy
Treasurer.
      4.   Suspension Or Removal: The City Council may suspend or remove the
Deputy Treasurer at any time when such suspension or removal has been confirmed
by a majority vote of the Council.
      5.   Compensation: The salary, if any, for the performance of the duties
as Deputy Treasurer shall be provided in the same manner as salaries and wages
for other City employees. (Ord. 2007-03, 2-20-2007)
1-7-1-4: CITY MARSHAL:
   A.   General Provisions: The City Marshal is an officer of the City. He
shall have such powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by applicable
law or ordinance. The City Marshal shall be under the administrative direction
of the Office of the Mayor. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-16-2007)
   B.   City Marshal And Chief Of Police: The individual who serves as City
Marshal may, upon presentation of appropriate documentation of the Oklahoma
Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training (CLEET) indicating that the
individual is certified as a peace officer in the State of Oklahoma, be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council as Chief of Police. If
the Mayor does not make such an appointment, the City of New Cordell will hire
a Chief of Police in the same manner as other full time City employees. In such
case the Chief of Police will manage the City of New Cordell Police Department
subject to the administrative direction of the Mayor and City Administrator and
serve separately from the City Marshal. The Chief of Police will also be
required to be CLEET certified. (Ord. 2018-03, 5-7-2018)
   C.   Compensation: The salary, if any, for the performance of such duties as
Chief of Police shall be provided separately in the same manner as salaries and
wages for other City employees. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-16-2007)
1-7-1-5: CITY ATTORNEY:
The City Attorney is an officer of the City. The City Attorney shall attend
Council meetings, prepare ordinances and resolutions when directed, advise the
Mayor and City Council and, with Council approval, advise other officers of the
City, represent the City in lawsuits and perform such other duties as provided
by law or ordinance. (1997 Code § 2-108)
1-7-2: ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES:
In addition to the officers enumerated in this chapter, there shall be such
other administrative departments, agencies and officers as the City Council may
establish. (1997 Code § 2-109; amd. 2014 Code)
1-7-3: BONDS:
The City Clerk, City Treasurer, Chief of Police, purchasing agents and such
officers and employees as are designated by the City Council shall, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, execute and file with the City
Clerk surety bonds issued by a surety company authorized to operate in the
State conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The bond of
the City Clerk shall be filed with the City Treasurer. The City shall pay the
premium on such bonds. (1997 Code § 2-110; amd. 2014 Code)
1-7-4: ACTS BY DEPUTY OR DESIGNEE:
Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon a public officer or
employee, the power may be performed by an authorized deputy or designee or by
any person authorized pursuant to law or ordinance, unless this Code expressly
provides otherwise. (1997 Code § 1-201)
1-7-5: RECORDS AND PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
All books, vouchers, monies or other property belonging to the City and in the
charge or possession of any City officer shall be delivered to his successor
when qualified. (1997 Code § 2-112; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 8
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Social Security
1-8-2: Employee Retirement System
1-8-3: Firefighters Pension And Retirement System
1-8-4: Police Pension And Retirement System
1-8-1: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
city to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof,
not excluded by law or this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act
and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, the city shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   B.   Agreement With State: The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the state
department of human services as agent or agency, to secure coverage of
employees and officials as provided in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such administration and government
times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations,
and shall be paid to the state or federal agency designated by the laws or
regulations.
   D.   Contributions: There shall be appropriated from available funds such
amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations for employer contributions, which shall be paid to the state or
federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
   E.   Records And Reports: The city shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   F.   Exclusions:
      1.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement
system for any employee or official of the city.
      2.   There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make an
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any position or any employee or
official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (1997 Code § 2-201)
1-8-2: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Established; Purpose: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the
laws of the state of Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity
and meritorious service on the part of city employees and thereby promote
public efficiency, there is hereby authorized, created, established, approved
and adopted, effective as of April 1, 2022, the amended and restated plan
designated "Employee Retirement System Of The City Of New Cordell, Oklahoma,
Defined Benefit Plan" (hereinafter called "system"), an executed counterpart of
which is marked exhibit A (joinder agreement) and exhibit B (amended and
restated plan) and attached to the ordinance codified herein as part hereof, of
which shall be amended from time to time.
   B.   Fund: A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the persons entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city.
Such fund shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with
similar funds of other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the
state of Oklahoma as a part of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund in
accordance with the trust agreement of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund,
a public trust. The city shall hold such contributions in the form received,
and from time to time pay over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund, as duly authorized and directed by the board of trustees. The
fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing any levy when
the annual estimate is made to the county excise board.
   C.   Appropriations: The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation, and administration of the system,
and to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized
to appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee
contributions to maintain the system and the fund in accordance with the
provisions of the defined benefit plan. Any appropriation so made to maintain
the system and fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries, and for the
payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration to be transferred
to the trustees of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund for such purposes and
shall be paid into the fund when available, to be duly transferred to the
Oklahoma municipal retirement fund. (Ord. 2010-01, 11-15-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-
13, 11-18-2019; Ord. 2022-1, 3-21-2022)
1-8-3: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Purpose; City Policy: There is hereby created, for the
purpose of providing pension retirement allowance and other benefits for
firefighters of the city, a firefighters pension and retirement system. It is
declared to be the official policy of the city to participate in the pension
system as provided by state law. (1997 Code § 2-211)
   B.   State Regulations Adopted: The firefighters pension and retirement
system as established by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-100.1 et seq., is
hereby adopted by reference.
   C.   Board Of Trustees: The local board of trustees of the firefighters
pension and retirement system, servicing the firefighters of the city, shall be
constituted as provided by state law and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed thereby. (1997 Code § 2-212)
1-8-4: POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Purpose; City Policy: There may be created, for the
purpose of providing pension retirement allowance and other benefits for police
officers of the city, a police pension and retirement system. It is declared to
be the official policy of the city to participate in the pension system as
provided by state law. (1997 Code § 2-221)
   B.   State Regulations Adopted: The police pension and retirement system as
established by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 50-101 et seq., is hereby adopted
by reference. (1997 Code § 2-222; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Board Of Trustees: The local board of trustees of the police pension
and retirement system, servicing the police officers of the city, shall be
constituted as provided by state law and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed thereby. (1997 Code § 2-222)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose And Effect
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Jurisdiction
1-9-4: Municipal Judge
1-9-5: Change Of Venue Not Allowed
1-9-6: Chief Of Police
1-9-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-9-8: City Attorney
1-9-9: Rules Of The Court
1-9-10: Traffic Violations
1-9-11: Schedule Of Fines
1-9-12: Prosecutions Procedure
1-9-13: Citations
1-9-14: Summons
1-9-15: Failure To Appear
1-9-16: Warrant Of Arrest
1-9-17: Bail Or Bond
1-9-18: Arraignment
1-9-19: Trials; Judgments
1-9-20: Penalties; Costs; Assessments
1-9-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by state statutes. To the extent of conflict
between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any other
ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1997 Code
§ 6-102; amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
city.
   CLERK: The court clerk, including any deputy or member of the office staff
of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
   COURT: The municipal court of this city.
   JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this city is situated. (1997 Code § 6-101; amd. 2014
Code)
1-9-3: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1997 Code § 6-103)
1-9-4: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications And Restrictions; Mayor May Serve As: There shall be one
judge of the court. The judge shall be a person at least twenty five (25) years
of age, a resident of the city (unless he is a licensed attorney), have a high
school education (or the equivalent), and be of good moral character. The mayor
may be designated as judge upon approval of the city council. A judge who is a
licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he
shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or arising
out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become subject of
proceedings therein. (1997 Code § 6-201)
   B.   Appointment: Judges shall be appointed by the mayor, with the consent
of the city council. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to
the city council at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to
the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon
at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The city council may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of all the members of the council.
Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action
thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the council unless the mayor,
in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment. (1997 Code § 6-203)
   C.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on April 30 in each odd numbered year. (1997 Code § 6-202)
   D.   Alternate Judge: There may be appointed for each judge of the court an
alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as judge of the court in any case if the judge is absent
from court, unable to act as judge, or disqualified from acting as judge in the
case. (1997 Code § 6-203)
   E.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge duly appointed and
qualified available to sit as judge, a person possessing the qualifications
required by this section for the judge shall be appointed as acting judge. The
acting judge shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (1997 Code § 6-204)
   F.   Compensation: A judge shall receive such salary as may be established
and shall be paid in the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the
city. (1997 Code § 6-205)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Removal For Cause: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by
the city council for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this
state for the removal of public officers. (1997 Code § 6-206)
      2.   Filing Of Petition: Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by the mayor, or two hundred fifty (250) or more qualified electors of
the city. In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more of
the petitioners. (1997 Code § 6-206; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The city council shall set a date for hearing the
matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to
be served personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
At the hearing, the judge shall be entitled to representation by counsel, to
present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him, and to have
all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      4.   Procedures: So far as can be made applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedure act governing individual proceedings 1  shall
govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only
upon individual votes, by a majority of all members of the city council in
favor of such removal. (1997 Code § 6-206)
   H.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   Cause Of Vacancy: A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if
the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review. (1997 Code
§ 6-207)
      2.   Filling Vacancy: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
judge, the mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a
successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same procedure as an
original appointment is made. (1997 Code § 6-207; amd. 2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309 - 317, and any amendments or additions thereto in effect at
  the time of the hearing.
1-9-5: CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed. The
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an acting judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (1997
Code § 6-104)
1-9-6: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the chief of police, who shall be the principal officer of the court. (1997
Code § 6-105)
1-9-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Duties: The court clerk shall: (1997 Code § 6-106; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      3.   Enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the
court;
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct;
      5.   Receive any receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the court and as may be established by the court or the city
council; and (1997 Code § 6-106)
      6.   Pay to the treasurer all monies so received by him, except such
special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him for
special purposes. All monies paid to the city treasurer shall be placed in the
general fund of the city, or in such other fund as the city council may direct.
(1997 Code § 6-106; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in such sum as set by the
city council, in the form provided by state law. When executed, the bond shall
be submitted to the council for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with
the city treasurer and retained in the municipal archives. (1997 Code § 6-108;
amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-8: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney or his duly designated assistant may be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He may prosecute, in his discretion, all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review
from the court to any other courts of the state, and to represent the city in
all proceedings arising out of matters in the court. (1997 Code § 6-107)
1-9-9: RULES OF THE COURT:
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court. (1997 Code § 6-109)
1-9-10: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Traffic Violations Bureau:
      1.   Bureau Created: A traffic violations bureau is established as a
division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the
clerk or by subordinates designated for that purpose.
      2.   Fines: Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic
ordinances of the city, other than a second offense within a twelve (12) month
period, a driver's license offense, or an offense punishable by more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), may elect to pay a fine in the violations bureau
according to a schedule of fines prescribed from time to time by the city. The
payment shall constitute a final determination of the cause against the
defendant.
      3.   Rules: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
subsection A. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
subsection A fails so to do, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of
this chapter. (1997 Code § 6-110)
   B.   Traffic Bail Bond Act:
      1.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
         a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a party to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
         b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
         c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by the treating physician; and
         d.   The violation does not constitute:
            (1)   A felony;
            (2)   Negligent homicide;
            (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by the treating physician;
            (4)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
            (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the driving privilege and driver's license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
            (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant; or
            (7)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections B1d(1) through B1d(6) of this section.
      2.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in subsection B1 of this section, then the arresting
officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the date and time on the citation on which, or before
which, the arrested person promises to contact, pay or appear at the court, as
applicable to the court; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided in the citation.
      3.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and driver's license
in this state, or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
      4.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driving
privilege and driver's license shall be as required in state law, 22 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
      5.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided in this subsection B5, such plea shall
be accepted by the court, and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
      6.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection B5 of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      7.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license to
operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and
request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license in
accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the state department of
public safety. The court clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided in this subsection B7 if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided in this subsection B or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing; or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
      8.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving
privilege and driver's license suspension submitted to the state department of
public safety pursuant to the provisions of this subsection B. When the court
or court clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs,
settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise
closes the case, the court clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant,
if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or
at such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court
or court clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the state department of public
safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided, however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided in this subsection B8 shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof,
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (1997 Code § 6-114; amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-11: SCHEDULE OF FINES:
The judge is authorized to establish a minimum fine schedule to become
effective upon approval by resolution of the city council. The minimum fine
schedule, when established, shall provide for a minimum amount which a person
may pay upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the listed offenses. The
minimum fine schedule shall include fine, court costs and any assessments set
by state law within the specified amount. Upon plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and payment of the required minimum fine prior to the date scheduled
for court appearance, no further court appearance shall be required. The judge
shall authorize the court clerk to accept pleas of guilty and nolo contendere
where the amount of the minimum fine is paid at the time of such plea and prior
to the scheduled court appearance date. (1997 Code § 6-111)
1-9-12: PROSECUTIONS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Style Of Prosecutions: All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of
the city shall be styled "The City Of New Cordell, Oklahoma vs. (naming
defendant or defendants)". (1997 Code § 6-112)
   B.   Written Complaint: Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall
be initiated by the filing of a written complaint, subscribed and verified by
the person making the complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense
charged. Complaints shall be verified before a judge, the court clerk, a deputy
court clerk, or a police officer. No warrant for arrest shall be issued until
approved by the judge of the municipal court. (1997 Code § 6-112; amd. 2014
Code)
   C.   City Options: There is no duty on the part of the city or any of its
officers or employees to formally prosecute actions in the court. In the
absence of a prosecuting officer, the judge shall proceed with the case and
hear evidence and examine witnesses in such manner as he may deem necessary to
effect justice. (1997 Code § 6-112)
   D.   Court Cost Fee: Any person, except a police officer or other employee
of the city, filing an offense complaint in the municipal court shall deposit
with the clerk of the court, unless waived by order of the court, the court
cost fee as provided in this chapter. The court costs so deposited by such a
complainant shall be refunded to the complainant or person depositing same upon
conviction or acquittal of the defendant; the court costs shall not be refunded
if the charges are dismissed at the request of the complainant who made the
deposit because the complainant fails or refuses to appear in court to testify
or aid in the prosecution of the charge filed by such complainant. (1997 Code §
6-112; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Defects In Complaint: All defects in the form or substance apparent on
the face of a complaint charging a violation of an ordinance of the city, and
being grounds for motion or demur, may only be raised by an accused in writing
and prior to trial.
   F.   Amendment Of Complaint: A complaint may be amended in matter of
substance or form at any time before the defendant pleads, without leave, and
may be amended after plea or order of the court where the same can be done
without material prejudice to the rights of the defendant. No amendment shall
cause any delay of the trial, unless good cause is shown by affidavit. (1997
Code § 6-112)
1-9-13: CITATIONS:
   A.   Residents Of City: If a resident of the city is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other
provisions of this chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
nontraffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if
released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the
person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person
fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest and his appearance shall be compelled. If the arrested resident is not
released by being permitted to sign a citation as provided in this subsection,
he shall be admitted to bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be
released on personal recognizance.
   B.   Nonresidents Of City: If a nonresident of the city is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which subsection
1-9-10B of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense is a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator is not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in this section, with such variation as the circumstances require,
the operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to
the citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A of
this section. (1997 Code § 6-113)
1-9-14: SUMMONS:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of an ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally or by certified mail. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (1997 Code § 6-115)
1-9-15: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Summons Or Traffic Citation: Any person who has been duly served with a
summons or traffic citation and who has signed a written promise to appear in
court as directed in the summons or the citation or as subsequently directed by
the court, and who fails to appear pursuant to his written promise or as
directed by the court, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, which shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1997 Code § 6-115)
   B.   Bond:
      1.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial
or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his presence in court or before
the judge may be lawfully required or ordered, the judge may direct that fact
to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to be
forfeited. The judge may also order a bench warrant to be issued for the
defendant as provided in this chapter. (1997 Code § 6-116)
      2.   The judge, without advancing court costs, may also cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the district court of the county, where it shall
be entered upon the judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of
a district court judgment. At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the
district court judgment docket, the district court clerk shall proceed in
accordance with the provisions of 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1332, and a
surety shall have all remedies available under the provisions of 22 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1108 and 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1301 through 1340.
(1997 Code § 6-116; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
(1997 Code § 6-116)
   C.   Complainants And Witnesses: No person, having signed a complaint in the
municipal court of the city alleging the violation of an ordinance or any other
person in response to an order of the court, shall fail, refuse or neglect to
appear for the purpose of testifying as a witness at the trial of the case,
after having been notified of the time, date and place at which the case is set
for trial. (1997 Code § 6-117)
1-9-16: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided by city ordinance, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the city attorney or by
the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the
following form: (1997 Code § 6-118)
The City of New Cordell, Oklahoma to the police chief of the City of New
Cordell, Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath this day has been made by (naming
complainant) that the offense of (naming the offense in general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore
forthwith to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring (insert him,
her or them, as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
 
Witness my hand this       day of            , 2    
 
                      
Judge of the Municipal
Court of New Cordell,
Oklahoma
(1997 Code § 6-118; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Police To Serve Warrant: It is the duty of the police chief personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the city police force or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly
as possible. (1997 Code § 6-118)
1-9-17: BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Bail: Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to
citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment,
the defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his
appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and
release of the defendant. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall
authorize the chief of police, or his designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense
charged. The judge or police chief is authorized, subject to conditions as may
be prescribed by the judge, to release a resident of the city on personal
recognizance.
   B.   Bail Bond Schedule: The city's bail bond schedule setting forth
specific offenses and bail bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
Copies of said schedule are on file in the office of the city clerk for public
use and inspection. (1997 Code § 6-119; amd. 2014 Code)
1-9-18: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the city attorney, shall read the complaint to the defendant,
inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if
available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the court may
proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date. (1997 Code
§ 6-120)
1-9-19: TRIALS; JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (1997 Code § 6-121)
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial of his case in court. (1997 Code § 6-122)
   C.   Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, by
the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the
state supreme court, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the
district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective.
(1997 Code § 6-123; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Judgments:
      1.   Judgment Required; Types: At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered without undue delay by the judge, who shall cause it to be entered in
his docket:
         a.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once;
         b.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly; and
         c.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he
be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied, as provided in subsection
1-9-20A of this chapter. (1997 Code § 6-124)
      2.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county, or other
appropriate officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the
sentence. (1997 Code § 6-125)
      3.   Suspension Or Deferment Of Judgment:
         a.   The judge of the court in imposing a judgment and sentence, at
his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the
imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize the person to
be released upon his own recognizance for a period not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may
specify. The judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer further
proceedings, after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before passing a
judgment of guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on probation for
a period not to exceed six (6) months, under such terms and conditions as
prescribed by the court, which may include, but not be limited to, work on the
streets, parks or other city owned or maintained projects, with proper
supervision.
         b.   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the
defendant has been previously convicted of a felony.
         c.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have
been violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause
a warrant to be issued for the defendant.
         d.   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being
entered, the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to
which he is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full fine
for which he was originally sentenced as may be directed by the judge.
         e.   The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence
for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the
sentence. At the expiration of such period, the judge may allow the city
attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense.
         f.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. The court may
make payment of the fee a condition of granting or continuing the imposition of
a sentence, if the defendant is able to pay.
         g.   The court may also require restitution, and in the event there
was damage done to public or private property during the commission of the
offense, the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged
property as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court.
(1997 Code § 6-126)
1-9-20: PENALTIES; COSTS; ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Fines And Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the
court shall tax the costs to the defendant in the sum of thirty dollars
($30.00), or the maximum sum permitted by state law, whichever is greater, and
the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, and any assessments levied, all
of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that may be imposed.
(1997 Code § 6-127; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Witness Fees:
      1.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than police or peace
officers who shall be employed by the city, shall be entitled to a witness fee
as established by the city council by motion or resolution per each day of
attendance, plus mileage per mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to
and returning from the place of attendance, if the residence is more than ten
(10) miles distant from the place of trial. No witness, however, shall receive
fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or for the
same travel. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
court clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be
required from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting forth:
         a.   The names of no more witnesses than the municipal judge for the
city shall determine to be just, necessary and reasonable for the proper
defense of such indigent's case;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of such witness is material; and
         d.   That the attendance at the trial is necessary to his proper
defense.
      2.   In any case where an indigent defendant has properly filled out and
filed with the city an affidavit setting forth the above mentioned information,
then the fees for such witnesses shall be paid by the city. (1997 Code § 6-128)
   C.   Enforcement Of Fines And Costs:
      1.   Imprisonment: If a defendant who is financially able refuses or
neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by
imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day. (1997 Code § 6-129; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Certified To District Court: If the defendant is without means to
pay the fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to
be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court
where it shall be entered upon the district court docket and shall have the
full force and effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same
remedies shall be available for the enforcement as are available to any other
judgment creditor. (1997 Code § 6-129)
      3.   Prisoners To Work:
         a.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty
may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on community projects, the
public streets, avenues or ways, public buildings or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the working prisoner shall be paid not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) until the fine and costs are satisfied. (1997
Code § 6-129; amd. 2014 Code)
         b.   The city shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
appropriate officer shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the chief
of police shall make provision therefor. (1997 Code § 6-129)
   D.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different sections of this code,
the city attorney may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense. (1997 Code
§ 6-130)
   E.   Contempt Of Court: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by
the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by
him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this
state. (1997 Code § 6-131)
   F.   Penalty Assessments:
      1.   Any person:
         a.   Convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten dollars
($10.00) or more or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing violations;
or
         b.   Forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense under
subsection F1a of this section,
shall pay a sum as set by state law as a separate penalty assessment for law
enforcement training, and as a separate fingerprinting fee, which shall be in
addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties and
costs otherwise provided for such offense. The court shall provide for separate
bail for the assessments; however, a defendant admitted to bail on an
undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the assessment in the
undertaking.
      2.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the monies for payment as required by state law.
      3.   At the end of every quarter, the city shall deposit with the
Oklahoma state treasury the funds deposited in the law enforcement training
funds and the AFIS (automated fingerprint identification system) fund as
required by law. The court clerk shall also furnish to the state treasury
reports required on the funds collected and penalty assessments imposed each
quarter.
      4.   For the purpose of this subsection F, "conviction" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (1997 Code §
6-132)
   G.   Failure To Pay Fines:
      1.   All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of
competent jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
      2.   The failure to pay a fine levied pursuant to this code shall
constitute a separate offense against the city, subject to a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1997 Code § 6-133)
      3.   If a fine is not paid by the defendant, the fine may be collected by
committing the defendant to jail, where he shall remain until his fine and any
costs assessed against him are discharged, either by payment or by confinement
in jail, or by working in accordance with other provisions of this code or
state law. (1997 Code § 6-133; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY RECORDS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Custodians Of Records
1-10-2: Requests For Records
1-10-3: Procedures
1-10-4: Fees
1-10-1: CUSTODIANS OF RECORDS:
   A.   Official Custodian; Clerk Serve As: The city clerk is hereby appointed
as official custodian for purposes of the Oklahoma open records act 1  and is
charged with responsibility for compliance with that act with respect to all
public records kept and maintained in the city clerk's office and all other
public records not provided for elsewhere in this chapter. (1997 Code § 2-301)
   B.   Additional Records Custodians:
      1.   Designation: The official custodian appointed in subsection A of
this section is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers or
employees to serve as records custodian. The records custodians shall have such
duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma open records act.
      2.   Register Kept: Whenever the official custodian shall appoint another
person as a records custodian, such designation shall be maintained in a
register kept by the city clerk. (1997 Code § 2-302; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Duties Of Custodians: All city officials and employees appointed or
designated under this chapter shall:
      1.   Protect public records from damage and disorganization;
      2.   Prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the city;
      3.   Provide assistance and information upon request;
      4.   Ensure efficient and timely action and response to all applications
for inspection of public records; and
      5.   Carry out the procedures adopted by the city for inspecting and
copying open public records. (1997 Code § 2-303)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS § 24A.1 et seq.
1-10-2: REQUESTS FOR RECORDS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to or copies of a public
record in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Whenever any city official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to or copy
of a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his possession
and which he has not been given responsibility to keep and maintain, the
custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The person making
the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request should be
addressed, if such is known by the custodian receiving the request. (1997 Code
§ 2-304)
1-10-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures Regarding Both Inspection And Copying Of Open Public
Records: The following procedures regarding both inspection and copying of open
public records are hereby adopted and shall be applied by the official
custodian and records custodians: (1997 Code § 2-305; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, records custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records;
      2.   Records custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied;
      3.   Records custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time;
      4.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be
performed by or under the supervision of the records custodian responsible for
such records;
      5.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored;
except, that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution;
      6.   All records inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting a record. The records custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record;
      7.   Any fees for records inspection or for copies are due at the time
the records or copies thereof are provided to the requester, unless the records
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the records custodian or city clerk;
      8.   The records custodian or city clerk shall demand full or partial
prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the amount set
out in subsection
1-10-4B of this chapter;
      9.   No records search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the city who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties;
      10.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours;
      11.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted; and
      12.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the records
custodian. (1997 Code § 2-305)
   B.   Procedures Regarding Inspection Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures regarding inspection of open public records are hereby adopted and
shall be applied by every official custodian and records custodian: (1997 Code
§ 2-306; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Records custodians shall handle all inspection requests in
accordance with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to
assist persons requesting inspection of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
records custodian and presented to the records custodian;
      3.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the
record sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient
information to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such
identification; and
      4.   The records custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the mayor. (1997 Code § 2-306)
   C.   Procedures Regarding Copies Of Open Public Records: The following
procedures apply regarding copies of records:
      1.   Records custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records;
      2.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the
copies. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual
name to the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the
records custodian;
      3.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it
is the judgment of the records custodian that any available means of
mechanically reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such
records; and
      4.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the records
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (1997 Code § 2-307)
1-10-4: FEES:
   A.   Fees Established:
      1.   Inspections: Where a request has been made for the inspection of an
open public record, no fee shall be charged. (1997 Code § 2-308)
      2.   Copies:
         a.   A fee per page as set by the council by motion or resolution
shall be charged for photocopying an open public record; such fee to cover the
cost of labor, materials and equipment. (1997 Code § 2-309)
         b.   For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by
photocopying, such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall
be charged the actual cost to the city, including the cost of labor, materials
and equipment. (1997 Code § 2-310)
      3.   Search: A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the
record solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to
the city of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and
equipment. (1997 Code § 2-311)
   B.   Prepayment Of Fees: A records custodian may demand prepayment of a fee
whenever the estimated amount exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). The prepayment
amount shall be an estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or
searching for the record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount
shall be settled prior to producing the requested record or delivering the copy
or mechanical reproduction of the record. (1997 Code § 2-312)
   TITLE 2
   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning Commission   1
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created; Appointment And Terms; Vacancies And Removals
2-1-2: Organization And Procedures
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Comprehensive Plan
2-1-5: Subdivision Of Land
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS; VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the City. The Planning
Commission shall consist of not less than five (5) members, all of whom shall
reside within the City of New Cordell (the "City"). The members shall be
nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council by simple majority
vote. Each member shall serve for a term of three (3) years or until his or her
successor takes office. When the commission is first appointed, the terms of
one- third (1/3) of the members shall be for three (3) years, one-third (1/3)
for two (2) years and one-third (1/3) for one year. Appointments to fill
vacancies shall be for the unexpired term only made by the Mayor, with
confirmation by the City Council. The members of the Planning Commission shall
serve without pay. The appointed members of the commission shall be nominated
and appointed solely with reference to their fitness and without reference to
any party affiliation. Members may be removed by the City Council only for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malefaction in office. (Ord. 2014-07, 12-15-
2014, eff. 12-15-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-07, 12-18-2017; Ord. 2019-07, 9-16-2019;
Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Officers: Each year the commission shall elect a Chair, a Vice Chair
and a Secretary, and may create and fill such other offices as it may deem
necessary. The term of the Chair, Vice Chair, and Secretary shall be one year.
   B.   Rules: The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and regulations necessary to effectuate the purposes of titles 11 and
12 of this Code. (1997 Code § 12-103)
   C.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. Any action taken shall be official when
concurred by not less than a majority of all appointed members of the Planning
Commission entitled to vote. (1997 Code § 12-102)
   D.   Technical Staff: The Planning Commission, subject to approval of the
City Council, shall have the power and authority to employ planners, engineers,
attorneys, clerks and other help deemed necessary within the limits of the
appropriation fixed by the City Council. The salary and compensation of such
employees shall be fixed by the City Council and shall be paid out of the City
Treasury as for other officers and employees. (1997 Code § 12-104)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
The appointed members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
Necessary expenses incurred by the commission shall be paid from the City
Treasury as other legal expenses of the City. (1997 Code §§ 12-101, 12-104;
amd. Ord. 2017-07, 12-18-2017)
2-1-4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   Powers Of Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall have the
power to prepare and recommend to the City Council for adoption a Comprehensive
Plan for the physical development of the City. In conducting its work, the
Planning Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to
the development and betterment of the City and may make recommendations as it
may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the City Council. The
Planning Commission may make or cause to be made surveys, studies, maps and
plans in the conduct of its activities. Before final action is taken by the
City Council on the location or design of any public buildings, statue,
memorial, park, boulevard, street, alley, playground, public grounds, bridge or
change in any location of any street or alley, such question shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for investigation and report. In the preparation of
the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission may from time to time prepare
and recommend to the City Council for adoption a part or parts thereof, which
parts shall cover one or more major geographical divisions of the city or one
or more major elements of the comprehensive plan. The planning commission may
from time to time recommend extending, amending or changing any portion of the
comprehensive plan. (1997 Code § 12-105)
   B.   Purposes Of Plan: In the preparation of such plan, the planning
commission may make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present
conditions and future growth of the city with due regard to its relation to
neighboring territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the city and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic,
the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for
light and air, the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, and wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds. (1997 Code § 12-106)
2-1-5: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
The planning commission may prepare and recommend to the city council for
adoption rules and regulations governing the subdivision of land within the
corporate limits of the city. All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in
lots, plots, blocks, streets, alleys or other ways intended to be dedicated to
public or private use within the corporate limits of the city may first be
submitted by the city council to the planning commission for its
recommendations. (1997 Code § 12-107; amd. 2014 Code)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
General Finance Provisions   1
Purchases And Sales   2
Unclaimed Personal Property Or Money
Or Legal Tender   3
Taxes   4
Sales Tax   4A
Use Tax   4B
Gas Utility Tax   4C
Fees, Rates And Charges   5
Automatic Annual Utility Rate Increase   6
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Appropriations
3-1-2: Deposit Of Funds
3-1-3: Investment Of Funds
3-1-1: APPROPRIATIONS:
All monies, however derived, belonging to the city shall only be appropriated
for such objects and defraying such expenses as accrue or necessarily arise in
the exercise of powers granted by law and the ordinances of the city. No
appropriation shall be made without an order to that effect entered upon a
proper book to be kept for that purpose by the city. (1997 Code § 7-101; amd.
2014 Code)
3-1-2: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Depositories Designated: All banks and financial institutions as are
designated by the city council shall be designated as depositories for the
funds of the city. (1997 Code § 7-103)
   B.   Treasurer And Clerk Duties: The city treasurer shall deposit daily all
public funds received by him in these depositories. Funds may be transferred
from one depository to another upon direction of the clerk. (1997 Code § 7-103;
amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Securing Deposits: The deposits of the city shall be secured as
provided for in the security for local public deposits act 1 . (1992 Code § 7-
104; amd. 2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 62 OS § 517.1 et seq.
3-1-3: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The city clerk or any other person authorized to invest public monies shall
invest the same in those investments authorized by the city council or
authorized by state law in a manner authorized by either or both such council
and statutes. (1997 Code § 7-102)
CHAPTER 2
PURCHASES AND SALES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Intent
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Purchasing Procedure
3-2-4: Disbursements
3-2-5: Exemptions From Competitive Bidding Purchases
3-2-6: Inventory And Inventory Control
3-2-7: Compliance With Provisions; Penalties
3-2-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to establish and to implement procedures to
acquire and to dispose of property for the city. It is the intent of this
chapter that the procedures herein established conform to Oklahoma law,
creditable accounting standards, and sound management practice. Although
certain responsibilities are assigned to various officers and employees, it is
anticipated that information technologies and accounting software will perform
and record most of the actual transactions, and that these technologies will be
utilized to the fullest extent feasible to expedite the implementation of the
processes herein described. The use of these technologies is specifically
authorized and encouraged to the extent their application does not compromise
the budget and control features required by law and by this chapter. (Ord.
2004-01, 3-1-2004)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to definitions provided in applicable Oklahoma law and as generally
understood in the accounting profession, for the purposes of this chapter, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
   APPROPRIATION: An amount authorized by the city council in a budget or
budget amendment, duly adopted, or by the mayor in a budget adjustment, to be
expended for a designated purpose (object) by or in support of a designated
unit, subdivision, or function (department).
   BUDGET ADJUSTMENT: A redistribution, authorized by the mayor, of
appropriations among departments within a fund or among objects within a
department.
   BUDGET AMENDMENT: Any revision, approved by the city council in accordance
with Oklahoma law, of appropriations at any level of the budget.
   BUDGET CONTROL OFFICER: The officer or employee charged with keeping the
appropriation and expenditure records. The accounts payable officer or employee
is the budget control officer. If no accounts payable officer or employee is
assigned or designated, the treasurer is the budget control officer.
   CITY: The city of New Cordell, the New Cordell utilities authority, the
Cordell development and redevelopment authority, and any other agency or entity
whose governing board is identical to the governing board (city council) of the
city of New Cordell.
   COMPETITIVE BIDDING: Any equitable procedure approved by the city treasurer
by which adequate public notice is given and means are provided to accept
offers from multiple individuals or entities, and includes sealed bidding, open
bidding, and, for sales, public auctions of any type, and online auctions (such
as eBay).
   COUNCIL, MAYOR, CLERK AND TREASURER: Mean, respectively, the council, the
mayor, the clerk, and the treasurer of the city of New Cordell and, also
respectively, the governing board, the chair, the secretary (or secretary/
treasurer), and the treasurer (or secretary/treasurer) of any agency or entity
described in the definition of "city" in this section, or their successors as
defined by law or ordinance, or such person(s) as they may in writing direct to
act in their behalf.
   EXPENDITURE: Any use of funds to acquire goods, services, or capital. The
term specifically excludes the disbursement of funds held on deposit or in
agency and not considered "revenue" (such as meter deposits, sales taxes
collected, income taxes withheld, debts collected for third parties, etc.). An
expenditure may be executed (a disbursement made) by cash, by credit or debit
card, by check or warrant, by electronic funds transfer, or by such other
method(s) as the treasurer may approve. A single expenditure is the total of
funds used to purchase all goods, services, and/or capital from a single vendor
in a single transaction.
   PURCHASE: Any transaction pledging, promising, or requiring an expenditure
of city funds or other exchange of value (except goodwill).
   PURCHASE ORDER: A physical, electronic, or virtual document authorizing a
purchase and subsequent expenditure of funds, such authorization being
evidenced by signature, seal, or sign of the budget control officer and the
purchasing authority, and specifying in sufficient detail the goods, materials,
or services to be purchased, the amount to be expended, the vendor to be paid,
and the appropriation account(s) to be charged.
   PURCHASING AUTHORITY: The officer or employee authorized to approve purchase
orders. The mayor is the purchasing authority. (Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004; amd.
2014 Code)
3-2-3: PURCHASING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Petty Cash Accounts: Subject to the provisions of Oklahoma law, and on
the request of the treasurer, the council may, by resolution separately adopted
for each budget year, establish one or more petty cash accounts. The resolution
shall specify the purpose of each account and the amount of the imprest balance
(which balance shall in no case exceed $500.00). Purchases, the aggregate
amount of which do not exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00), may be paid (or
reimbursed) from petty cash accounts when supported by receipts or other
sufficient evidence as the treasurer may determine. Periodically, as needed,
the treasurer shall prepare a purchase order to reimburse the petty cash
account for purchases made therefrom. (Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
   B.   Regular Purchase Orders: Purchases shall not be made without there
first being a properly executed purchase order authorizing the purchase. The
purchase order shall be prepared by the person requesting the purchase and
delivered to the budget control officer. The budget control officer shall
determine that the available appropriation in each account to be charged is
sufficient to cover the requested expenditure, shall attest to that fact in
writing, and shall immediately encumber the required funds. (If the available
appropriation is insufficient to cover the requested expenditure, the budget
control officer shall not approve the purchase order until additional
appropriations are authorized as budget amendments or as budget adjustments.)
Once approved by the budget control officer, the purchase order shall be
delivered to the purchasing authority for approval. If the purchasing authority
approves the purchase order, the purchase may be executed. If not, the purchase
order shall be returned to the budget control officer who shall disencumber the
funds. Regular purchase orders, the aggregate amount of which exceeds seven
thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00), shall not be approved by the
purchasing authority unless and until first approved by the city council. (Ord.
2007-04, 2-20-2007)
   C.   Payroll Purchase Orders: Each actual or authorized officer or employee
of the city who is scheduled to receive compensation shall be assigned to a
budgeted position associated with an object level appropriation account for
personnel services. At the beginning of the fiscal year, the budget control
officer and the purchasing authority shall execute purchase orders for each
budgeted position and shall encumber the entire appropriation for each
position. If positions are or become vacant, the budget control officer shall
periodically adjust the appropriation account records to disencumber (and show
as available) such amounts as would have been disbursed had the position been
occupied.
   D.   Contract Purchase Orders: For any contract requiring the expenditure of
city funds, at the time the contract is entered into, and at the beginning of
each subsequent fiscal year during which the contract remains active or in
force, the budget control officer and the purchasing authority shall execute a
purchase order for that contract, and shall encumber the entire actual or
estimated amount due under the contract during that fiscal year. Funds to be
expended pursuant to a contract may be charged to an appropriation account
established for that sole purpose, may be charged (along with funds expended
pursuant to other contracts) to a general "contracts" appropriation account, or
may be subsumed under or distributed for charging to one or more other
appropriation accounts, as the budget control officer and the purchasing
authority may deem best.
   E.   Purchase Orders Not Required: A purchase order shall not be required
for individual purchases of fuel purchased through an established fueling
arrangement, nor for the arrangement itself; for the purchase of wholesale
power by the city or the use of retail power or other energy sources by city
facilities; for ongoing telecommunications services (telephones, internet
service, etc.); for other public utilities (water, sewer, waste collection)
provided to city facilities; for the payment of debt service (principal or
interest) when the incurring of the debt has been previously approved by
council; for payment of credit or revolving credit accounts when the actual
purchases charged to the credit or draw accounts were approved by purchase
order; for payments required by law or court order; or for the disbursement of
"pass through" funds (withholding taxes, meter deposits, etc.).
   F.   Evidence Of Receipt: The person receiving the goods or services on
behalf of the city shall certify that goods and services were received in good
condition, as ordered, and in the amount and for the cost specified, and shall
so signify by signature or initials on the invoice, packing slip, receipt, or
other document. Such certification shall be delivered to the budget control
officer who shall then make a request to the treasurer that payment be made.
(Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
3-2-4: DISBURSEMENTS:
The treasurer shall inspect all requests for payment and, for those that comply
with the procedure herein described, shall direct the preparation and execution
of all disbursements by appropriate instruments or means. Upon disbursement
(payment or partial payment), the budget control officer shall enter
appropriate adjustments to the appropriation account records. At least monthly,
the treasurer shall prepare an itemized list of claims paid for presentation to
the council for their information and review. (Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
3-2-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM COMPETITIVE BIDDING PURCHASES:
All purchases shall be competitively bid except:
   A.   Personnel and all employment arrangements.
   B.   Contracts for professional services (engineering, architectural,
medical, legal, consulting, etc.).
   C.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or services where the cost does not
exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in a single transaction
or contract.
   D.   Supplies, materials, equipment, or services which can be furnished only
by a single dealer or sole source vendor, or which have a uniform price
wherever bought, or which are purchased from another unit of government at a
price deemed below that obtainable from private dealers, or which are purchased
through state contracts or other governmental purchasing arrangements, or which
are purchased at a price below that available through state contracts or other
governmental purchasing arrangements.
   E.   Commodities or services purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the Oklahoma corporation commission, the federal
communications commission, or other regulatory agency, or similar energy,
utility, telecommunications commodities or services whose rates or tariffs are
published and not subject to negotiation. (Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
3-2-6: INVENTORY AND INVENTORY CONTROL:
It shall be the responsibility of the mayor to take and to keep current an
inventory of all city property, and to develop a system for maintaining an
inventory and inventory control for the parts, supplies, and equipment
routinely used by city offices and departments. Sufficient quantities should be
maintained on hand to prevent the need for incidental or "spot" buying of
routine items. Surplus property in inventory, including equipment and real
estate, shall be removed from inventory and sold, discarded, or otherwise
disposed of in accordance with the following:
   A.   The mayor may trade, sell at a price, offer for bid, or donate for
charitable use any single item of city property, or any lot of items of city
property, the value of which, competently established or estimated, does not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   The council may authorize the mayor to trade, to sell at a price, to
offer for bid, or to donate for charitable use any single item of city
property, or any lot of items of city property, the value of which, competently
established or estimated, exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   C.   Any single item of city property, or any lot of items of city property,
the value of which, competently established or estimated, exceeds two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) shall be offered for sale by competitive
bidding, or may instead be sold at a price or traded at a value approved by
council, which price or value shall not be less than the price paid by the city
to acquire it.
   D.   The mayor may consider previous unsuccessful attempts to sell an item
as basis to revalue it, and may then attempt to dispose of the item at that
lesser value, or may declare it to have no significant value. Items determined
to have no significant value may be disposed of as the mayor shall determine.
(Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
3-2-7: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; PENALTIES:
No expenditures shall be authorized, no purchases shall be made, and no funds
shall be disbursed, except as shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter. No sale or disposition of city property shall be made except as shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter. Any person making or authorizing
any nonconforming purchase, disbursement, or sale shall be personally liable
for the full amount thereof, may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, and
may be subject to forfeiture of elective or appointive office and/or
termination of employment. (Ord. 2004-01, 3-1-2004)
CHAPTER 3
UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY OR MONEY OR LEGAL TENDER
SECTION:
3-3-1: Authority To Dispose Of Property
3-3-2: Application For Sale Of Property
3-3-3: Property Valued At More Than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars; Notice
Requirements
3-3-4: Disposal Of Unclaimed Property
3-3-5: Money Or Legal Tender
3-3-6: Specific Properties Regulated
3-3-1: AUTHORITY TO DISPOSE OF PROPERTY:
The chief of police is authorized to dispose of personal property or money or
legal tender as provided in this chapter which has come into the possession of
the chief in any manner if:
   A.   The owner of the personal property or money or legal tender is unknown
or has not claimed the property;
   B.   The property or money or legal tender has been in the custody of the
chief of police for at least ninety (90) days; and
   C.   The property or money or legal tender or any part thereof is no longer
needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any
litigation. (2014 Code)
3-3-2: APPLICATION FOR SALE OF PROPERTY:
The chief of police shall file an application in the district court requesting
the authority of the court to conduct a sale of the personal property which has
a fair market value of more than its face value. The chief of police shall
attach to the application a list describing the property including any
identifying numbers and marks, the date the property came into the possession
of the chief, and the name of the owner and the person in last possession, if
different, and the address of the person, if known. The court shall set the
application for hearing not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20)
days after filing of the application. (2014 Code)
3-3-3: PROPERTY VALUED AT MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS; NOTICE
REQUIREMENTS:
In any instance where the property has an actual or apparent value of more than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), at least ten (10) days prior to the date
of the hearing, written notice of the hearing shall be sent by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to each owner at the address as listed in the
application. If the owner of any property with an actual or apparent value
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) is unable to be served written notice
by first class mail, notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county. The notice shall contain a brief
description of the property of the owner and the place and date of the hearing.
The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of municipal
notices, and at two (2) other public places in the city. (2014 Code)
3-3-4: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property at the
hearing, the court shall enter an order authorizing the chief of police to
dispose of the property as follows:
      1.   Donate the property having value of less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) to a not for profit corporation as defined in 18 Oklahoma Statutes
for use by needy families;
      2.   Sell the personal property for cash to the highest bidder, after at
least five (5) days' notice of the sale has been published;
      3.   Transfer the property to a third party agent under contract with the
city council for sale by internet or other electronic means, regardless of
whether the sale structure or distribution site is within the state of
Oklahoma; or
      4.   By any other means as determined appropriate by the court including,
but not limited to, destruction.
   B.   Regardless of the means of disposition, the chief of police shall make
a return of the donation or sale, and the order of the court confirming the
donation or sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or
purchaser. After payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of
money received from the sale of the personal property shall be deposited in the
municipal general fund. (2014 Code)
3-3-5: MONEY OR LEGAL TENDER:
All money or legal tender which has come into the possession of the chief of
police pursuant to the circumstances provided in section
3-3-1 of this chapter shall be transferred by the chief of police to the city
clerk for deposit in the municipal general fund. Prior to any transfer, the
chief of police shall file an application in the district court requesting the
court to enter an order authorizing the chief of police to transfer the money
for deposit in the municipal general fund. The application shall describe the
money or legal tender, the date the same came into the possession of the chief
of police, and the name of the owner and the address of the owner, if known.
Upon filing the application which may be joined with an application as
described in section
3-3-2 of this chapter, a hearing shall be set not less than ten (10) days nor
more than twenty (20) days from the filing of the application. Notice of the
hearing shall be given as provided in section
3-3-3 of this chapter. The notice shall state that, upon failure of anyone to
appear to prove ownership to the money or legal tender, the court shall order
the same to be deposited in the municipal general fund. The notice may be
combined with a notice to sell personal property as provided in section
 3-3-2 of this chapter. If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to the
money or legal tender at the hearing, the court shall order the same to be
transferred to the municipal general fund as provided in this section. (2014
Code)
3-3-6: SPECIFIC PROPERTIES REGULATED:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of any
kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law.
   B.   By order of the trial court, any property filed as an exhibit or held
by the city shall be destroyed or sold or disposed of pursuant to the
conditions prescribed in the order. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Short Title
3-4A-2: Definitions
3-4A-3: Tax Imposed; Rate; Purpose
3-4A-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-4A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-4A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-4A-7: Tax Due Date
3-4A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-4A-9: Collection By Vendors
3-4A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-4A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-4A-12: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns
3-4A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
3-4A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-4A-15: Records Confidential
3-4A-16: Amendments
3-4A-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-4A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY SALES TAX ORDINANCE.
(1997 Code § 7-301)
3-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma
sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this article. (1997 Code § 7-302; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   The term "tax collector", as used in this article, shall mean the
department of the city or the official agency of the state duly designated
according to law or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of
the tax herein levied. (1997 Code § 7-302)
3-4A-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PURPOSE:
   A.   There is hereby levied an excise tax of four percent (4%) upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma sales tax code. (1997 Code § 7-306; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the revenues generated by
the first, second and third cent sales taxes levied herein to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city. (1997
Code § 7-305; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.    It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the revenues generated by
the fourth cent sales tax levied herein to provide for a limited-purpose tax
fund, known as the “Cordell Memorial Hospital Tax Fund,” to provide funds for
the operation and maintenance of Cordell Memorial Hospital. Monies in said
account shall be accumulated from year to year if not expended for the purpose
provided herein and shall be invested in accordance with the laws of the state
of Oklahoma, and the charter of the city of New Cordell, and the interest which
accrues in said fund shall be retained by the fund. The monies in said fund
shall be expended only as accumulated and only for the limited purposes as set
forth in this section. Monies in the limited-purpose tax fund may only be
appropriated for the authorized purposes as provided by law. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-
17-2019, adopted by the electorate 9-10-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 9-16-2019)
3-4A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (1997 Code § 7-304)
3-4A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code. (1997 Code § 7-303)
3-4A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2014 Code)
3-4A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under this article shall be due and payable at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
sales tax law of the state. (1997 Code § 7-313)
3-4A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
sales tax law of the state.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax. (1997 Code § 7-314)
3-4A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor; and each and every vendor shall collect from the consumer or user the
full amount of the tax levied, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   No vendor shall wilfully or intentionally fail, neglect or refuse to
collect the full amount of the tax levied; or wilfully or intentionally fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this article; or remit or
rebate to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever
means, all or any part of the tax herein levied; or make in any form of
advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is
absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment
of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever. (1997
Code § 7-316)
3-4A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code, and
remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the code for collection of state sales taxes.
(1997 Code § 7-317)
3-4A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is adopted and
made a part of this article. Interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts
specified in the state statute cited in this subsection are hereby levied and
shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax
levied by this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. If such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim
to any discount allowed under this article. (1997 Code § 7-318)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are adopted by reference and made a
part of this article. (1997 Code § 7-319)
3-4A-12: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Intentionally fail or refuse to make tax reports and remittances as
required under this article; or
      2.   Intentionally make false and fraudulent tax reports for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof due under this
article.
   B.   Any person required to collect and remit sales tax pursuant to the
state sales tax code or this code, and engaging in any of the callings, trades,
avocations, professions, businesses or occupations for which a license is
required by the city, and applying for such license, must submit proof as a
condition precedent to issuing such license of a valid sales tax permit number
issued by the state of Oklahoma.
   C.   Any license issued by the city to any person engaging in any of the
callings, trades, avocations, businesses, professions or occupations for which
a license is required by this code may be suspended or revoked for failure to
maintain a lawful sales tax license or collect and remit sales tax if and as
required by the state sales tax code or this code.
   D.   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, any
violation of this section shall subject the offending taxpayer to the penalty
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense and charged separately. (1997 Code § 7-321)
3-4A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1997 Code § 7-315)
3-4A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1997 Code § 7-320)
3-4A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same. The provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
and all subsections thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of the city sales tax as if
herein set forth in full. (1997 Code § 7-322)
3-4A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The city council, by ordinance duly enacted, is authorized to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness; except, that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as
provided by law. (1997 Code § 7-324)
3-4A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances. (1997 Code § 7-323)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Short Title
3-4B-2: Definitions
3-4B-3: Tax Imposed; Subjects Of Taxation
3-4B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-4B-5: Purpose Of Revenues
3-4B-6: Subsisting State Permits
3-4B-7: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-4B-8: Tax Due Date
3-4B-9: Collection Of Tax
3-4B-10: Revoking Permits
3-4B-11: Remunerative Deductions
3-4B-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-4B-13: Fraudulent Returns
3-4B-14: Enforcement Of Payment
3-4B-15: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-4B-16: Records Confidential
3-4B-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-4B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF NEW CORDELL USE TAX.
(1997 Code § 7-401)
3-4B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION: Sale. (1997 Code § 7-402)
3-4B-3: TAX IMPOSED; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the city an excise tax on the storage, use or other consumption
within the city of such property at the same rate of taxation as that imposed
by the city on sales made within the city (sales tax) of the purchase price of
such property. Such use tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or
otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the city. The tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the city and shall be assessed
only to property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied
herein shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended solely
for use outside the city but which is stored in the city pending shipment
outside the city or which is temporarily retained in the city for the purpose
of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any
person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax
any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services;
provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have
been due if the taxes imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such
goods or services. (Ord. 2006-05, 9-18-2006; amd. Ord. 2019-14, 11-18-2019)
3-4B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Exemptions from the tax levied herein shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma
Statutes. (2014 Code)
3-4B-5: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the city council for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized. (1997 Code § 7-
404; amd. 2014 Code)
3-4B-6: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (1997 Code § 7-418)
3-4B-7: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(1997 Code § 7-417)
3-4B-8: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (1997 Code § 7-406)
3-4B-9: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state, and making sales of tangible personal property from a place
of business outside this state for use in this city shall, at the time of
making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the tax commission if the tax commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax
commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the city and the
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in the city. (1997 Code § 7-408)
   B.   The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the city and by the out of state place of
business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without this state and making sales of tangible personal property at such
out of state place of business for use in the city. Such retailer or vendor may
be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax commission
in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall
prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor
to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his knowledge
for use within the city. Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any
time, the tax commission considers that such tax can more effectively be
collected from the person using such property in the city. Provided, however,
that in all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within the city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or
vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales
or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable city sales tax at
the point of delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported under the
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (1997 Code § 7-409)
3-4B-10: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (1997 Code § 7-410)
3-4B-11: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for the collection of state use taxes. (1997 Code §
7-411)
3-4B-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as herein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article.
Provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article. (1997 Code
§ 7-412)
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in the administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish
the purposes of this subsection, the applicable provisions of said section 220
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1997 Code §
7-413; amd. 2014 Code)
3-4B-13: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall
constitute a separate offense. (1997 Code § 7-415)
3-4B-14: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1997 Code § 7-407)
3-4B-15: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(1997 Code § 7-414)
3-4B-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205,
and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of the city use tax as if herein
set forth in full. (1997 Code § 7-416)
3-4B-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of the city. (1997 Code § 7-419)
ARTICLE C. GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Tax Levied
3-4C-2: Application Of Tax; Exception
3-4C-3: Due Date; Disposition Of Funds; Interest On Delinquent Payments
3-4C-4: Failure To Pay Tax
3-4C-5: Tax Constitutes Lien
3-4C-1: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the city, which
tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax
levied by the city, all as provided by 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2601 et
seq. (1997 Code § 7-701)
3-4C-2: APPLICATION OF TAX; EXCEPTION:
The tax levied under this article shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing gas
within the corporate limits of the city, except it shall not apply to any
person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from
the city. (1997 Code § 7-702)
3-4C-3: DUE DATE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; INTEREST ON DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
The tax levied under this article shall remain in effect until repealed and
shall be payable monthly on the fifteenth day of each month. The tax shall be
placed in the general revenue fund of the city. Amounts not paid when due shall
bear interest at the per annum rate established by the city council until paid.
(1997 Code § 7-703; amd. 2014 Code)
3-4C-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when levied
shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the city. In addition
thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or corporation
for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same, including
reasonable attorney fees. (1997 Code § 7-705)
3-4C-5: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The tax imposed in this article shall constitute a first and prior lien on all
the assets located within the city of any person, firm or corporation engaged
in the business of selling gas within the city limits of the city. (1997 Code §
7-704; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Schedule Of Fees, Rates And Charges
3-5-2: 911 Emergency Service Fee
3-5-3: Telephone Exchange Fee And Service Charge
3-5-4: Waiver Of Certain Fees And Charges For Residential Construction
3-5-1: SCHEDULE OF FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
There is created a schedule of fees and charges which shall contain those fees
and charges for the various licenses, permits and other fees and charges as
designated by the city council. Where a fee or charge is authorized to be
collected by the city in any ordinance, the amount of the fee or charge shall
be set by resolution or motion and entered into the schedule of fees and
charges. The schedule shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk to
whom all fees and charges shall be paid unless otherwise provided. A copy may
be obtained upon payment of a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and
charges. The schedule of fees and charges hereby created shall also be known
and may be cited as "the fee schedule". (1997 Code § 1-205; amd. 2014 Code)
3-5-2: 911 EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: A service fee or tax for 911 emergency telephone
service is hereby established at the rate of five percent (5%) of the amount
billed to a service user for the tariff charges for exchange telephone service
or its equivalent within the city in accordance with 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2814 in any year. Such fee or tax to be imposed shall remain as such
until a new vote of the electors of the city is conducted as authorized by law.
Collection of the emergency telephone service fee shall begin June 1, 1995.
(1997 Code § 7-501; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Administration: The city council is authorized to designate by
resolution an appropriate agency or agencies to administer and collect the fee
for 911 emergency telephone service. (1997 Code § 7-502)
3-5-3: TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Fee And Charge Established: There is hereby levied an annual inspection
fee and service charge upon each and every person operating a telephone
exchange in the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulation and police control of the construction of lines and equipment
of the telephone company in the city.
   B.   Amount: The amount of the inspection fee and service charge shall be
equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the limits of
the city.
   C.   Due Date; Disposition Of Monies: The inspection fee and charge shall be
due and payable to the city on or before March 1 of each year and shall be paid
into and appropriated and expended from the general revenue fund of the city.
(1997 Code § 7-601)
   D.   Charge In Lieu Of Other License Tax: During continued substantial
compliance with the terms of this section by the owner of any telephone
exchange, the charge levied by this section shall be and continue to be in lieu
of all concessions; charges; excise, franchise, license, privilege, and permit
fees or taxes or assessments except ad valorem taxes. This section is not
intended to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement whereby the city is
permitted to use the underground conduit, duct space or pole contracts of the
company for the fire alarm and police call systems of the city, or either of
them. (1997 Code § 7-602)
3-5-4: WAIVER OF CERTAIN FEES AND CHARGES FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Waivers Established:
      1.   Building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical permit fees and water
and sewer tap charges will be waived on any single- family home constructed
within the corporate limits with a value between forty thousand dollars
($40,000.00) and seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00). (Ord. 2001-08, 12-3-
2001)
      2.   One-half (1/2) of the building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical
permit fees and water and sewer tap charges will be waived on any single-family
home constructed within the corporate limits with a value between seventy
thousand one dollars ($70,001.00) and ninety nine thousand nine hundred ninety
nine dollars ($99,999.00). (Ord. 2001-08, 12-3-2001; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical permit fees and water
and sewer tap charges will be waived on any state or federally assisted/funded
single- or multi-family home constructed within the corporate limits that are
leased or rented to families that meet state or federal income limits as set
for the county. (Ord. 2001-08, 12-3-2001; amd. Ord. 2002-01, 1-7-2002)
   B.   Submission Of Information Required: In order to qualify for the waivers
set out in subsection A of this section, the property owner, builder or
developer must submit the following to the city:
      1.   One set of housing plans, drawings, etc. (These may be returned upon
completion.)
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of property owner, builder or
developer.
      3.   Legal description and street address of the proposed development
site.
      4.   Commitment by the property owner, builder or developer to abide by
all housing and other appropriate codes of the city.
   C.   Interpretation: Nothing in this section is to be construed as waiving
the requirement to obtain all needed building related permits or inspections.
(Ord. 2001-08, 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 6
AUTOMATIC ANNUAL UTILITY RATE INCREASE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Automatic Annual Utility Rate Increase
3-6-1: AUTOMATIC ANNUAL UTILITY RATE INCREASE:
   A.   The utility rates for the utilities provided for and charged by the
city shall be automatically increased annually by three percent (3%) above the
rate charged the previous year without a vote or further action of the city
council. The utilities subject to the automatic annual rate increase shall be
the electric rates, sewer rates, water rates and garbage rates. The annual
increase shall be effective for the first time on March 1, 2020 and increase
each year thereafter on the 1st day of February.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city council of the city from
increasing the utility rates by a percentage greater than three percent (3%)
should the city council determine by a majority vote of the council that a
greater percentage is needed to meet the needs of the city and its citizens.
(Ord. 2020-01, 1-21-2020)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
General License And Permit Provisions   1
Alcoholic Beverages   2
Amusement Centers And Devices   3
Peddlers, Solicitors And Itinerant Vendors   4
Pawnbrokers   5
Propane Exchange Providers   6
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Conditions Of Issuance Of License Or Permit; Not A City Endorsement
4-1-2: License Required; Fees
4-1-3: Separate Licenses Required
4-1-4: Prohibitions Regarding Fees
4-1-5: Payment Of Fees; Processing
4-1-6: Application For License
4-1-7: Nontransferability Of License Or Permit
4-1-8: Expiration Of Licenses And Permits
4-1-9: Renewal Of Licenses
4-1-10: Posting License
4-1-11: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit
4-1-12: Appeal Procedure
4-1-1: CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; NOT A CITY ENDORSEMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: All permits and licenses issued under the
provisions of this code for or to any person, business, activity, device or
machine shall be conditioned upon substantial compliance by the permittee or
licensee with all provisions of this code for the regulation and maintenance of
the public order, welfare, peace, health and safety. In addition, the permits
and licenses shall be conditioned upon strict compliance with the provisions of
this code relating specifically to the person, business, activity, device or
machine covered by the permit or license. (1997 Code § 9-101)
   B.   Approvals; Fees; Inspection; Bond: Whenever in any section any permit
or license issued by an officer, agency or department is made contingent upon
the approval of another officer, agency or department, or contingent upon the
payment of any fee or fees, or the making of any prior inspection or
examination, or the furnishing of any bond in connection therewith, then the
issuance of the permit or license shall be withheld until the approval,
inspection or examination is had or the bond provided and until the fee has
been paid as required. (1997 Code § 9-102)
   C.   Not A City Endorsement: No permit or license shall be construed or used
in any manner or by any person as an official endorsement by the city of the
person, activity or thing licensed or permitted. (1997 Code § 9-108)
4-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on, conduct, operate or
follow any of the trades, businesses, vocations, professions, callings or
activities set out in this code unless he has a current license issued by the
city clerk. The fees for such licenses shall be as set by the city council by
motion or resolution. (1997 Code § 9-111; amd. 2014 Code)
4-1-3: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch or separate place of
business in which the trade, calling, profession or occupation is carried on.
Each license shall authorize the party obtaining it to carry on, pursue or
conduct only that trade, calling, profession or occupation described in the
license, except as may be otherwise provided herein. (1997 Code § 9-104)
4-1-4: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING FEES:
No free licenses shall be granted, nor rebates allowed, except as specifically
set forth by this code, nor any sum accepted less than the amount specified,
nor for a shorter period than required by this code. (1997 Code § 9-105)
4-1-5: PAYMENT OF FEES; PROCESSING:
All license and permit fees shall be paid in advance to the city prior to the
issuance of any license or permit. The fee, less the applicable charge for
processing the application for a permit or license, shall be refunded to the
applicant, upon demand, in case the license or permit for which filed is not
granted. Except as provided otherwise in this code, the processing fee shall be
as set by the city council by motion or resolution. (1997 Code § 9-110)
4-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license required by this code shall be filed with the city
clerk and shall contain such reasonable information as he or she may require,
in addition to any information specifically required by other provisions of
this chapter. (1997 Code § 9-112)
4-1-7: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
No license or permit issued shall be transferable nor may any license or permit
be sold, assigned, or mortgaged, except as may be specifically authorized by
this code. No person may attempt to do business under a license or permit
transferred to him. (1997 Code § 9-103)
4-1-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   Licenses: All annual licenses issued shall expire on June 30. Where the
fee prescribed and paid for is for a period less than one year, the license
shall be issued only for such period and shall expire at the end thereof. (1997
Code § 9-106; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Permits: All permits shall expire upon execution of the act or activity
for which the permit was issued, or at the expiration time noted on the permit
or in this code, whichever occurs first. (1997 Code § 9-106)
4-1-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
For all occupations, activities or businesses regulated in this code, no
applicant for an initial or renewal license may engage in the activity,
occupation or business regulated without issuance of the license as provided in
this chapter unless otherwise provided herein. Renewal applications and fees
must be received by the city prior to the expiration of the license, except
where otherwise provided by this code, or else the applicant must proceed in
the manner required of an applicant for a new or initial license. (1997 Code §
9-109)
4-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
Each license issued under this chapter shall be posted in a conspicuous place
where the business, vocation or calling is carried on, and the holder of such
license shall immediately show the same to any officer of the city upon being
requested so to do. (1997 Code § 9-113)
4-1-11: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Grounds For Denial, Suspension Or Revocation:
      1.   The city council or other authorized official may refuse to issue or
renew a license or permit; or the licenses or permits issued pursuant to this
code, unless otherwise provided, may be suspended or revoked by the city
council or such other authorized official, department, board or agency where
applicable, after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
         a.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for permit or license;
         b.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in
connection with the selling of goods, wares, merchandise and services;
         c.   Conviction of the applicant, licensee or permittee of any crime
of misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a violation of any act of the state
or any law of the United States having a reasonable relationship to the purpose
and scope of the permit or license; or
         d.   Conducting the activity under this code or any ordinance of the
city in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public. (1997 Code § 9-114)
      2.   Any permit or license shall be subject to suspension or revocation
for failure to comply with the terms of this code and as may otherwise be
provided by this code. (1997 Code § 9-107)
   B.   Notice And Hearing: Notice of hearing for the suspension or revocation
of a license or permit shall be in writing given by the clerk, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Service of such notice shall be made by either personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the applicant, licensee or
permittee at the last known address, at least five (5) days prior to the date
set for the hearing. (1997 Code § 9-114)
   C.   Refunds And Returns Prohibited: In case of the suspension or revocation
of a license or permit as herein provided, no portion of the application,
license or permit fee shall be returned to the applicant, licensee or permittee
unless otherwise provided in this code or any ordinance of the city.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation Is In Addition To Penalty: Any suspension or
revocation hereunder shall be in addition to any penalty or fine as prescribed
in this code or any ordinance of the city. (1997 Code § 9-114; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Action Is Final: The order of the city council or such other authorized
official, department, board or agency where applicable shall be the final
municipal action for the purpose of judicial review unless otherwise
specifically provided.
F. Provisions Are Additional: This section is in addition to any other
procedures in this code for license suspension or revocation. (1997 Code § 9-
114)
4-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal
at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time, the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The city council shall act
on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which
the city has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the city had
revoked. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition Of Terms
4-2-2: Reserved
4-2-3: Consumption In Public
4-2-4: Location, Zoning Restrictions
4-2-5: Hours Of Operation
4-2-6: Stimulate Consumption Prohibited
4-2-7: Hours Of Sale
4-2-8: Taxes Enumerated
4-2-9: Violations And Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
The terms set forth in this chapter are also contained in title 37A Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-103 which is the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, as
may be amended (the "Act") which became effective October 1, 2018.
   ABLE COMMISSION OR COMMISSION: Means the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission.
   ALCOHOL: Means and includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It
does not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced
as denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Means alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those terms are
defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
   APPLICANT: Means any individual, legal or commercial business entity, or any
individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed to hold
any license issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.
   BEER: Means any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt or
similar products. "Beer" may or may not contain hops or other vegetable
products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as
Japanese rice wine.
   BEER DISTRIBUTOR: Means and includes any person licensed to distribute beer
for retail sale in the State, but does not include a holder of a small brewer
self-distribution license or brewpub self-distribution license. The term
"distributor", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to refer to a beer
distributor.
   BEER KEG: Means any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not
less than four (4) gallons of beer.
   BOTTLE CLUB: Means any establishment in a county which has not authorized
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink, which is
required to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages belonging to
club members on club premises.
   BRAND: Means any word, name, group of letters, symbol or combination
thereof, that is adopted and used by a licensed manufacturer to identify a
specific beer and to distinguish that product from another beer.
   BRAND EXTENSION: Means:
   A.   After the effective date of this Act, any brand of beer introduced by a
manufacturer in this State which either:
      1.   Incorporates all or a substantial part of the unique features of a
preexisting brand of the same licensed manufacturer, or
      2.   Relies to a significant extent on the goodwill associated with the
preexisting brand, or
   B.   Any brand of beer that a manufacturer, the majority of whose total
volume of all brands of beer distributed in this State by such manufacturer on
January 1, 2016, was distributed as low-point beer, desires to sell,
introduces, begins selling or theretofore has sold and desires to continue
selling a strong beer in this State which either:
      1.   Incorporates or incorporated all or a substantial part of the unique
features of a preexisting low-point beer brand of the same licensed
manufacturer, or
      2.   Relies or relied to a significant extent on the goodwill associated
with a preexisting low- point beer brand.
   BREWER: Means and includes any person who manufactures for human consumption
by the use of raw materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license
fee and a tax are imposed by any law of this State.
   BREWPUB: Means a licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
   CIDER: Means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation
of fruit juice, including but not limited to flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider. For the purposes of the distribution of this product, cider may be
distributed by either wine and spirits wholesalers or beer distributors.
   CONVENIENCE STORE: Means any person primarily engaged in retailing a limited
range of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of
operation, whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in
combination with such sales.
   CONVICTED AND CONVICTION: Mean and include a finding of guilt resulting from
a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the decision of a court or magistrate or
the verdict of a jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of judgment or the
suspension thereof.
   DIRECTOR: Means the Director of the ABLE Commission.
   DISTILLER: Means any person who produces spirits from any source or
substance, or any person who brews or makes mash, wort or wash, fit for
distillation or for the production of spirits (except a person making or using
such material in the authorized production of wine or beer, or the production
of vinegar by fermentation), or any person who by any process separates
alcoholic spirits from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or
keeping mash, wort or wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
   DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT: Means the written agreement between the distributor
and manufacturer of alcohol.
   DRUG STORE: Means a person primarily engaged in retailing prescription and
nonprescription drugs and medicines.
   DUAL-STRENGTH BEER: Means a brand of beer that, immediately prior to the
effective date of this Act, was being sold and distributed in this State:
   A.   As a low-point beer pursuant to the Low-Point Beer Distribution Act in
effect immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, and
   B.   As strong beer pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act in effect
immediately prior to the effective date of this Act.
Dual-strength beer does not include a brand of beer that arose as a result of a
brand extension as defined in this section.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE: Means the value in the subject territory covered by the
written agreement with the distributor or wholesaler that would be determined
in an arm's length transaction entered into without duress or threat of
termination of the distributor's or wholesaler's rights and shall include all
elements of value, including goodwill and going-concern value.
   GOOD CAUSE: Means:
   A.   Failure by the distributor to comply with the material and reasonable
provisions of a written agreement or understanding with the manufacturer, or
   B.   Failure by the distributor to comply with the duty of good faith.
   GOOD FAITH: Means the duty of each party to any distributor agreement and
all officers, employees or agents thereof to act with honesty in fact and
within reasonable standards of fair dealing in the trade.
   GROCERY STORE: Means a person primarily engaged in retailing a general line
of food, such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh
and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL: Means an establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations
with respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the
occupants thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of
innkeeper and guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal
relationships as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall
be immaterial.
   LEGAL NEWSPAPER: Means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in sections 101 through 114 of title
25 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   LICENSEE: Means any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such licensee while
in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed business
or on the licensed premises.
   LOW-POINT BEER: Shall mean any beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion by
barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MANUFACTURER: Means a brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or bottler of
any alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent companies.
   MANUFACTURER'S AGENT: Means a salaried or commissioned salesperson who is
the agent authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or nonresident seller
in the State.
   MEALS: Means foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least part of
which is cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining
implements for consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as
appetizers, sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered "meals".
   MINI-BAR: Means a closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part,
or nonrefrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
   A.   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device, or
   B.   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
   MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER: Means any beverage, by whatever name designated,
consisting of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or
vegetable flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of alcohol measured by volume but not more
than seven percent (7%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F)
and which is packaged in a container not larger than three hundred seventy five
milliliters (375 mL). Such term shall include but not be limited to the
beverage popularly known as a "wine cooler".
   MIXED BEVERAGES: Means one or more servings of a beverage composed in whole
or part of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal
size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event or
special event license.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Means an establishment which is licensed by the
State of Oklahoma under the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act to sell
alcoholic beverages by the individual drink and where motion pictures are
exhibited, and to which the general public is admitted.
   NONRESIDENT SELLER: Means any person licensed pursuant to title 37A Oklahoma
Statutes section 2-135 of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   OCCUPATION: As used in connection with "Occupation Tax" means the sites
occupied as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers, beer
distributors, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, on-premises beer and wine
licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event licensees.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Means any container of alcoholic beverage filled and
stamped or sealed by the manufacturer.
   PACKAGE STORE: Means any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to
sell wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
   PATRON: Means any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a
licensee or who is not a licensee.
   PERSON: Means an individual, any type of partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal
structure of any such business entity.
   PREMISES: Means the grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining
to the grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect
control of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the
licensee and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered
by a license. Provided that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
   A.   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by private
parties which are closed to the general public, or
   B.   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages provided
by a private party.
This exception shall in no way limit the licensee's concurrent responsibility
for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act occurring on
the licensed premises.
   PRIVATE EVENT: Means a social gathering or event attended by invited guests
who share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior
established relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for
general public attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not
constitute a private event.
   PUBLIC EVENT: Means any event that can be attended by the general public.
   RECTIFIER: Means any person who rectifies, purifies or refines spirits or
wines by any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or
original and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash or other substance,
through continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is
complete), and any person who, without rectifying, purifying or refining
spirits, shall by mixing (except for immediate consumption on the premises
where mixed) such spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufactures
any spurious, imitation or compound liquors for sale, under the name of
whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, wine, spirits, cordials or any other name.
   REGULATION OR RULE: Means a formal rule of general application promulgated
by the ABLE Commission as herein required.
   RESTAURANT: Means an establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
   RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES: Means an original package of any
capacity approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
   RETAIL SALESPERSON: Means a salesperson soliciting orders from and calling
upon retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her product.
   RETAILER: Means a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug
store licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off- premises consumption
pursuant to a retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer
license.
   SALE: Means any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term "sale" is
also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this State of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this State, upon
which the Excise Tax levied by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has
not been paid or exempted.
   SHORT-ORDER FOOD: Means food other than full meals including but not limited
to sandwiches, soups and salads. Provided that popcorn, chips and other similar
snack food shall not be considered "short-order food".
   SMALL BREWER: Means a brewer who manufactures less than twenty five thousand
(25,000) barrels of beer annually pursuant to a validly issued small brewer
license hereunder.
   SMALL FARM WINE: Means a wine that is produced by a small farm winery with
seventy five percent (75%) or more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries, other
fruits, honey or vegetables.
   SMALL FARM WINERY: Means a wine-making establishment that does not annually
produce for sale more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of wine as
reported on the United States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco
Tax and Trade Bureau, Report of Wine Premises Operations (TTB Form 5120.17).
   SPARKLING WINE: Means champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
   SPECIAL EVENT: Means an entertainment, recreation or marketing event that
occurs at a single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic
beverages are sold.
   SPIRITS: Means any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more
than one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol measured by volume, and
obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in
solution and includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, vodka,
liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds, but shall not
include any alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts of
Congress and regulations pursuant thereto.
   STRONG BEER: Means beer which, prior to October 1, 2018, was distributed
pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, section 501 et seq.,
of title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   SUCCESSOR MANUFACTURER: Means a primary source of supply, a brewer or an
importer that acquires rights to a beer brand from a predecessor manufacturer.
   TAX COMMISSION: Means the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
   TERRITORY: Means a geographic region with a specified boundary.
   WINE: Means and includes any beverage containing more than one- half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty four percent
(24%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the
fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
   WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER OR WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR: Means and
includes any sole proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and
spirits in the State. The term "wholesaler", as used in this Act, shall be
construed to refer to a wine and spirits wholesaler.
Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting
the masculine gender include the feminine, as well as persons and licensees as
defined in this section. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-3: CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as otherwise provided by law, any person who shall,
in any public place or building, or upon any public or private road or alley,
or upon any parking or vacant lot, drink or otherwise consume any intoxicating
beverage or liquor of any kind or beer, including low point beer, or, who shall
be intoxicated in any public place or building or public or private road,
street or alley, or any public gathering, or who shall be drunk or intoxicated
and shall disturb the peace of any person, shall be guilty of an offense.
   B.   Public Place Defined: "Public place" shall mean any place other than
the premises of a licensee of the ABLE commission who is authorized to sell or
serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink or on the premises of any
place for which any person has received a special event or caterer's license
from the ABLE commission.
   C.   Exemption: It shall not be unlawful to sell intoxicating beverages,
liquor, wine and beer, including low point beer at a special event on city
public property where the person or entity conducting the special event has
received prior authorization for such special event from the city and, further,
the person or entity conducting such special event has also received a special
event or caterer's license from the ABLE commission, if such ABLE commission
license is required by state law for such special event. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-
2019, eff. 4-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-06, 7-1-2019)
4-2-4: LOCATION, ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any beer distributor, bottle club, brewery,
brewpub or winery, which has been licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has
as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or package store, to be located within three
hundred feet (300') of any public or private school or church property
primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious activities;
however, a college or university located within an improvement district created
pursuant to section 39-103.1 of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes may waive the
three hundred foot (300') requirement by providing written notice to the
establishment seeking the license and to the ABLE Commission. Provided, a
college or university prior to waiving the three hundred foot (300')
requirement found in this subsection shall publish a notice of its intention to
waive such requirement in a legal newspaper of general circulation within the
State at least thirty (30) days but not more than forty (40) days prior to
providing any written notice, waiving the three hundred foot (300')
requirement, to the establishment seeking the license or to the ABLE
Commission. As used in this subsection "legal newspaper of general circulation
in this State" means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in section 106 of title 25 of the
Oklahoma Statutes in a majority of the counties in this State. The distance
indicated in this section shall be measured from the nearest property line of
such public or private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the
premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment,
bottle club or package store which has been licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages. The provisions of this section shall not apply to mixed beverage
establishments, beer and wine establishments, or bottle clubs, which have been
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption or retail
package stores prior to November 1, 2000; provided, if at the time of
application for license renewal the licensed location has not been in actual
operation for a continuous period more than sixty (60) days, the license shall
not be renewed. If any school or church shall be established within three
hundred feet (300') of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section
after such package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this section
shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a
lapse of more than sixty (60) days. When any mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section
which has a license to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or
package store, changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such
change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the
premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No establishment to which the mixed beverage or on premises beer and wine
Occupational Tax is applicable, nor any agent, servant or employee of such
establishment shall sell, dispense, serve or allow to be consumed any mixed
beverages, beer or wine on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-6: STIMULATE CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Use of any of the following means or inducements to stimulate the
consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited, including but not limited to:
      1.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time,
      2.   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any drinks
at a price that is less than six percent (6%) below the markup of the cost to
the mixed beverage licensee; provided, a mixed beverage licensee shall be
permitted to offer these drink specials on any particular hour of any
particular day and shall not be required to offer these drink specials for an
entire calendar week or from open to close,
      3.   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public,
      4.   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons on
any one day or portion thereof at prices less than those charged the general
public on that day, except at private functions not open to the public,
      5.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week, or
      6.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
Provided, that the provisions of this section shall not prohibit the
advertising or offering of food or entertainment in licensed establishments.
(Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-7: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Sale of alcoholic beverages shall only be allowed between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Monday through
Saturday, and shall not be permitted to be sold on Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day; provided, if Washita County, pursuant to the provisions of
section 3-124, title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes, elects to allow such sales
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on Sunday. Retail spirits licensees shall be permitted to sell
alcoholic beverages on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or
special election whether on a national, State, County, or City election,
provided that the election day does not occur on any day on which such sales
are otherwise prohibited by law. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-8: TAXES ENUMERATED:
There is hereby levied an annual tax upon the following occupations hereinafter
named, and in the sum set opposite the names of such occupation:
Brewer license                                                       $1,250.00
Small brewer license                                                 125.00
Distiller license                                                    3,125.00
Winemaker license                                                    625.00
Small farm winery license                                            75.00
Rectifier license                                                    3,125.00
Wine and spirits wholesaler license                                  3,000.00
Beer distributor license                                             750.00
The following retail spirits license fees shall be determined by the
latest Federal Decennial Census:
 Retail spirits license for cities and towns from 200 to 2,500       305.00
 population
 Retail spirits license for cities and towns from 2,501 to 5,000     605.00
 population
 Retail spirits license for cities and towns over 5,000 population   905.00
Retail wine license                                                  1,000.00
Retail beer license                                                  500.00
Mixed beverage license:
 Initial license                                                     1,005.00
 Renewal                                                             905.00
Mixed beverage/caterer combination license                           1,250.00
On-premises beer and wine license:
 Initial license                                                     500.00
 Renewal                                                             450.00
Bottle club license:
 Initial license                                                     1,000.00
 Renewal                                                             900.00
Caterer license:
 Initial license                                                     1,005.00
 Renewal                                                             905.00
Annual special event license                                         55.00
Quarterly special event license                                      55.00
Hotel beverage license:
 Initial license                                                     1,005.00
 Renewal                                                             905.00
Airline/railroad beverage license:
 Initial license                                                     1,005.00
 Renewal                                                             905.00
Agent license                                                        55.00
Employee license                                                     30.00
Industrial license                                                   23.00
Carrier license                                                      23.00
Private carrier license                                              23.00
Bonded warehouse license                                             190.00
Storage license                                                      23.00
Nonresident seller license or manufacturer's license                 750.00
Manufacturer's agent license                                         55.00
Sacramental wine supplier license                                    100.00
Charitable auction license                                           1.00
Charitable alcoholic beverage license                                55.00
Winemaker self-distribution license                                  750.00
Annual public event license                                          1,005.00
One-time public event license                                        255.00
Small brewer self-distribution license                               750.00
Brewpub license                                                      1,005.00
Brewpub self-distribution license                                    750.00
 
(Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-2019)
4-2-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
In addition to any other penalty provided by law, a person convicted of a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be required to complete a
substance abuse prevention program conducted by the Department of Mental Health
and Substance Abuse Services or a private entity approved by the department.
Such program shall include at least two (2) sessions, each of which shall not
be less than two (2) hours in length. The cost of the program shall be paid by
the person required to complete the program. (Ord. 2018-7, 4-1-2019, eff. 4-1-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENT CENTERS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Application For License
4-3-3: License Fee
4-3-4: Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-3-5: Display Of License
4-3-6: Prohibited Devices Not Legalized
4-3-7: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively given to them in this section:
   COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any and all nongambling mechanical or
electronic machines which, upon the payment or insertion of a coin, token, or
similar object, provide music, amusement or entertainment including, but not
limited to, such games as pool, phonographs, video television, shooting
galleries, pinball, foosball, bowling, shuffleboard, or any other amusement
device with or without a replay feature which can be legally shipped interstate
according to federal law.
   COIN OPERATED MUSIC DEVICE: Any music device which is operated, motivated,
released, or played by or upon the payment or insertion of a coin, token or
similar object, whether there is one or more boxes or devices in the premises
for the reception of such coin, tokens, or similar objects. Coin operated radio
or television receiving sets in hotels, motels, or tourist cabins for the use
and benefit of the guests and visitors of such hotels, motels, or tourist rooms
or cabins shall be included in this definition.
   COIN OPERATED POOL, BILLIARD OR SNOOKER TABLES: Are defined as coin operated
amusement devices, in accordance with the definition of said term in this
section.
   FAMILY AMUSEMENT CENTER: An establishment where more than two (2) pool or
billiard tables are maintained and operated for a profit and offered to persons
of all ages and designed to furnish recreation for families.
   POOL, BILLIARD OR SNOOKER TABLE: Any table specifically manufactured for the
purpose of playing pool, billiards or snooker, if not coin operated. (1997 Code
§ 9-401; amd. 2014 Code)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for an annual license regulated by this chapter shall be made to
the city. The application form shall contain the name of the applicant, a
description of the device, location of the device and such other information
deemed necessary by the licensing officer to identify the device. Any number of
machines may be included in one application. (1997 Code § 9-403)
4-3-3: LICENSE FEE:
Every person who owns or has available to the public, or who permits to be
operated by the public in or on his place of business, any coin operated music
device, coin operated amusement device, or coin operated pool, billiard or
snooker table shall obtain and pay for an annual license fee for each such
device or table as set by the city council by motion or resolution. (1997 Code
§ 9-402)
4-3-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Upon payment of the license fee and approval of the application, the license
shall be presented to the city council at its next regularly scheduled meeting
after the application has been filed for approval or disapproval by the
council. If approved by the city council, the license shall be issued upon
payment of the fee. (1997 Code § 9-403)
4-3-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Before any coin operated music device, coin operated amusement device, or coin
operated pool, billiard or snooker table is put into operation or placed where
the same may be operated by the public, and at all times when the same is being
operated or is available to the public for operation, a license issued by the
city shall be firmly affixed to the device covered thereby or displayed with
other licenses or permits on a wallboard and plainly visible to and readable by
the public. (1997 Code § 9-404)
4-3-6: PROHIBITED DEVICES NOT LEGALIZED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to legalize any device that may be
prohibited by the laws of this state or the ordinances of the city. The city
may assume that any device described in any application, and for which a
license fee is paid, is lawful. No claim for a refund of any license fee will
be entertained based upon an owner's or operator's inability to operate such
device because of any law of this state or the city or for any other reason.
(1997 Code § 9-405)
4-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any owner of a coin operated music device, coin operated amusement device, coin
operated pool, billiard or snooker table, or recreation center, who places such
device in operation or in a place available to the public for operation, and
any person who permits such a device to be in operation or accessible to the
public for operation in his place of business without attaching and displaying
the license provided by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense. Upon
conviction of a violation of this chapter, such person shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each unlicensed device shall constitute a separate
violation. (1997 Code § 9-406; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Licenses Required; Exemptions
4-4-3: Applications For Licenses
4-4-4: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-4-5: Bond Requirements
4-4-6: Signed Document For Service Of Process
4-4-7: License Fee And Exemptions
4-4-8: Display Of License
4-4-9: Food Sales
4-4-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-4-11: Provisions Cumulative; Conflicting Provisions
4-4-12: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   COMMERCIAL: Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not for profit or
political.
   ITINERANT: Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the
city and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing
goods over an established route through the city.
   PEDDLER: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
   SOLICITING: All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to,
distribution of handbills or leaflets to the public directly or by placing them
in a mailbox, on a doorknob or otherwise on any property; coming personally
onto any property for the purposes defined herein; calling the occupants of any
property by telephone for the purposes herein defined; or calling or inviting
any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product or
service.
   SOLICITOR: A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
   VENDOR: Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering
to sell any merchandise, product or service, and includes, but is not limited
to, peddlers and solicitors. (1997 Code § 9-201)
4-4-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Individual License: Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall
obtain a license from the city prior to any soliciting in the city, unless
exempted herein, to cover each person who will be soliciting and each location
or separate place of business.
   B.   Blanket License For Itinerant Vendors: Owners or lessees of buildings
in which itinerant vendors operate or locate must obtain a blanket license
covering all itinerant vendors who will be established in the building
controlled by the owner or lessee. Governmental agencies owning public
buildings may arrange a letter of agreement with the city in lieu of a license
if licensing is contrary to the regulations governing the governmental agency.
In such a case, the letter of agreement will provide for the same requirements
as are shown in this chapter and will provide that the city receive half the
rental fee paid by the itinerant vendor until the city's receipts equal the
amount required for a blanket license fee. (1997 Code § 9-202)
   C.   Exemptions From License: The following are exempt from the license
requirements of this chapter: (1997 Code § 9-210)
      1.   Farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned, cultivated or
controlled by them, who offer for sale or sell, or who solicit and sell from
house to house, vegetables, butter, eggs and farm products produced and raised
by the farmers and truck gardeners from such land. (1997 Code § 9-210; amd.
2014 Code)
      2.   Persons selling at wholesale to licensed dealers in such articles
whose stock of merchandise is listed with the county assessor for taxation:
         a.   To persons in taking orders at the houses of their customers for
goods held in stock in their places of business.
         b.   To persons delivering to customers of goods so ordered in this
subsection C.
      3.   Sales or solicitations by youth on behalf of nonprofit charitable,
religious or educational organizations which possess a 501(c)(3) status.
      4.   Persons selling homegrown or homemade items of any kind. (1997 Code
§ 9-210; amd. Ord. 2019-11, 11-4-2019)
4-4-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Individual License: Applicants for licenses shall file during regular
business hours a written application signed by the applicant, if an individual,
by all partners if a partnership, and by a qualified corporate officer, if a
corporation, with the city clerk showing: (1997 Code § 9-204; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
      2.   The place or places in the city within the proper zoning
classification where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business and
the length of time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
      3.   The place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the
application, where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
      4.   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is whether they
are "seconds", rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty applies
to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the warranty and
the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for filing for the
adjustment of refund shall be specified;
      5.   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and city sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma tax commission;
      6.   Current state sales tax permit number;
      7.   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state
law or ordinances of the city for the particular activity or business;
      8.   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of
the vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number and the license
number for the vehicle; and
         a.   Proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
         b.   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the city
clerk will be provided at least ten (10) days' notice of any cancellation; and
      9.   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status if claiming exemption from the license
fees. (1997 Code § 9-204)
   B.   Blanket License For Itinerant Vendors: Applicants for a blanket
itinerant vendor license shall file during regular business hours a written
application signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners, if a
partnership, and by a corporation officer, if a corporation, with the city
clerk showing: (1997 Code § 9-204; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the building in which the itinerant vendor shall conduct
business;
      2.   Name and address of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated and licensed to operate in the state;
      3.   A general description of the products or services that will be sold
by the itinerant vendor;
      4.   A statement that the applicant shall establish the following
controls over itinerant vendors and shall maintain records concerning each
itinerant vendor for one year after the engagement dates involving the
itinerant vendors:
         a.   The applicant shall determine the names and addresses of each
salesperson involved locally for an itinerant vendor and determine the names
and permanent addresses of the parent company, if any, controlling the
itinerant vendor;
         b.   The applicant shall determine the nature of the merchandise or
product to be sold, determine whether it is a "reject" line or seconds,
determine whether there are warranties of the product, and how any complaint is
to be filed for warranty adjustment. The applicant shall require that the
vendor display a sign prominent enough to disclose to all potential customers
that the product consists of seconds, rejects or irregulars if such is the
case;
         c.   The applicant shall inform each vendor of the requirement to pay
state and city sales taxes and shall forward the name, product involved, and
dates of the vendor's engagement to the local office of the state tax
commission. Further, the applicant will furnish the vendor with one copy of the
state sales tax report form and require him to certify that he will submit a
sales tax report at the conclusion of his engagement in the city;
         d.   The applicant shall post proof of liability insurance policy in
effect in amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00);
         e.   The applicant shall provide copies of all ordinances,
regulations, tax forms, etc., to the itinerant vendor and provide the city with
a statement signed by the vendor agreeing to comply with same; and
         f.   The applicant shall post a notice with the city thirty (30) days
in advance, listing each itinerant vendor establishing a business. (1997 Code §
9-204)
4-4-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for licensing shall be immediately referred for investigation
as to the truth thereof, which investigation shall be conducted within ten (10)
business days after the application and fee are deposited with the city. If the
city finds no past history of the applicant indicating violations of this code
and that the application is properly made and truthful, a license shall be
issued to the approved applicant upon payment of the fee therefor and the
filing of the required bond. In all matters of denial of the license, the
applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof. The applicant shall be advised
that an appeal of a denied license may be submitted to the city council. (1997
Code § 9-205; amd. 2014 Code)
4-4-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued, such applicant
shall file a bond running to the city. A person engaging in business as an
itinerant vendor shall file a bond in the sum set forth in the bond schedule,
secured by the applicant as principal and two (2) sureties upon whom service of
process may be made in the state. All such bonds shall be approved by the city
attorney and conditioned that:
   A.   The applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of the ordinances
of the city and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of
goods or wares and merchandise; and (1997 Code § 9-206)
   B.   The applicant will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons
for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive practice by any
person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such
misrepresentation or deception was made or practiced by the owner or by his
service, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through
any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with
reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Any
action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the
aggrieved person. (1997 Code § 9-206; amd. 2014 Code)
4-4-6: SIGNED DOCUMENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license for an itinerant vendor, as herein provided, shall be
issued, such applicant shall file with the city an instrument nominating and
appointing the city clerk his true and lawful agent, with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the
applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transaction under the license and the bond given as required by this
chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for any breach
thereof. The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the
applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notices or
processes may be made upon the agent and, when so made, shall be taken and held
to be as valid as if personally served on the person or persons applying for
the license under this chapter, according to the laws of the state or any other
state and waiving all claims or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment
of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the
city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk shall send to the licensee at
his last known address, by certified mail, a copy of the notice. (1997 Code §
9-207)
4-4-7: LICENSE FEE AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Fee Established: The fee for licenses herein required shall be as set
by the city council by motion or resolution.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The fee may be waived for educational, charitable, or religious
groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make house to house
solicitations. (1997 Code § 9-203)
      2.   Any person who desires to be exempt from the license fee levied
under this chapter due to engaging in interstate commerce shall provide
sufficient data on transactions and proof to the city to establish the
interstate commerce nature of his business and transactions. If the city
refuses to issue an interstate commerce exemption for the license fee to a
commercial business activity, then the applicant is entitled to a hearing
before the city judge. (1997 Code § 9-210)
4-4-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
At all times there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each: a)
licensee if an individual; b) vehicle or booth used by a licensee; or c)
building or premises as appropriate for blanket licenses, a badge, tag or card
issued by the city as proof of issuance of a license. The card, tag or badge
shall state the name of the licensee and the date of expiration of the license.
Blanket licenses shall be displayed and readily available for inspection by the
city. (1997 Code § 9-209)
4-4-9: FOOD SALES:
All applicants for license to sell foods and merchandise for human or animal
consumption shall have their application for license approved in accordance
with the applicable state food establishment requirements before the licenses
are issued. The sale of foods requires an individual license not covered by
blanket licenses. (1997 Code § 9-208)
4-4-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The provisions of chapter 1 of this title on revocation or suspension of
licenses shall apply to licenses issued under this chapter. (1997 Code § 9-211)
4-4-11: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
The requirements of this chapter are cumulative to any provisions of state law
or city ordinances regulating or governing any of the activities licensed
herein. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
those of any other city ordinance or state law, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (1997 Code § 9-211)
4-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 9-212)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Registration Of Property Required
4-5-2: Copy Of Registration To Pledgor
4-5-3: Inspections
4-5-1: REGISTRATION OF PROPERTY REQUIRED:
Every pawnbroker shall keep at his place of business a register, in which he
shall record an adequate description of all property purchased, taken or
received by him, including any number that may be thereon. The following
information shall be recorded in the register:
   A.   The date when all property is received;
   B.   The name of the person leaving the property;
   C.   The address of the person leaving the property;
   D.   The amount loaned; and
   E.   The time when the loan is to become due. (1997 Code § 9-501)
4-5-2: COPY OF REGISTRATION TO PLEDGOR:
The pawnbroker shall give, without charge, to the person leaving or pledging
property a legible ticket containing a true copy of all entries made in the
register concerning the property left or pledged. (1997 Code § 9-501)
4-5-3: INSPECTIONS:
The register herein required to be kept shall be subject to the inspection at
any time by the chief of police, any police officer, the sheriff, the deputy
sheriff, the city attorney, the district attorney or any person authorized in
writing to make inspection by the chief of police. Upon request, the pawnbroker
shall show to such officer or person for inspection any article or articles
purchased, taken or received, unless such article or articles have already been
disposed of. (1997 Code § 9-501)
CHAPTER 6
PROPANE EXCHANGE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Permit Required
4-6-2: Permit Fee
4-6-3: Display Of Permit
4-6-4: Annual Inspection
4-6-5: Penalty
4-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
To protect the public health and safety, all businesses operating within the
city limits which keep and/or provide to the public prefilled propane exchange
containers shall obtain an annual permit and be subject to yearly inspections
by the city. (Ord. 2004-04, 12-6-2004)
4-6-2: PERMIT FEE:
Every person or business which keeps and/or provides to the public prefilled
propane exchange containers shall obtain and pay for an annual permit. There is
hereby levied an annual permit fee on each person or business as set by the
city council by motion or resolution. (Ord. 2004-04, 12-6-2004)
4-6-3: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Any person or business which keeps or provides to the public prefilled propane
exchange containers shall obtain and display the required permit, and the
failure to do so shall constitute an offense. (Ord. 2004-04, 12-6-2004)
4-6-4: ANNUAL INSPECTION:
Every person or business which keeps or provides to the public prefilled
propane exchange containers shall be subject to an annual inspection by the
city and shall meet or exceed all permit requirements in order to protect the
public health and safety. (Ord. 2004-04, 12-6-2004)
4-6-5: PENALTY:
Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter, the person or business shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2004-04, 12-6-2004)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
General Health And Sanitation Provisions   1
Food Regulations   2
Nuisances   3
Weeds, Grass And Trash   4
Dilapidated Buildings   5
Junk Or Abandoned Vehicles   6
Noise Control   7
Enforcement Of Provisions   8
Medical Marijuana   9
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Littering Prohibited
5-1-2: Open Burning
5-1-3: Abandoned Containers
5-1-1: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall throw, place, leave, drop, put or otherwise abandon litter upon
any public property, private property or roadway except as otherwise
specifically permitted in this code. "Litter" means trash, refuse, rubbish and
all like material. (1997 Code § 8-119)
5-1-2: OPEN BURNING:
Unless otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful to burn any fire outside of
any enclosed building in the city for the purpose of burning grass, trash,
leaves, weeds, papers, refuse, garbage or any other substance except in an
approved incinerator and except as may be allowed by the city fire code and any
applicable state or city regulations. (1997 Code § 8-113)
5-1-3: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to leave outside of any building
or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container of any kind of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more which has an airtight door or lock
which may not be released from the inside of such icebox, refrigerator or
container, or which has a snap lock or other device for automatically fastening
such door in a closed position, without first removing such fastener, lock,
snap lock or doors of such container. (1997 Code § 8-118)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Food Establishments; State Regulations Adopted
5-2-2: Milk And Milk Products; Federal And State Regulations Adopted
5-2-3: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The latest edition of the "Oklahoma State Department Of Health Rules And
Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this code. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the city clerk. The rules and
regulations shall govern except in case of conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, in which case, the more restrictive terms shall prevail. (1997 Code §
8-501)
5-2-2: MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS; FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The latest edition of the United States public health service recommendation
"Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance With Administrative Procedures" and the
provisions of state law governing milk and milk products as set out in 2
Oklahoma Statutes sections 7-401 to 7-411, as amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this code and are enforceable
by the city as fully as if they were set out at length herein. At least one
copy of the milk ordinance and referenced state law shall be on file in the
office of the city clerk. The milk ordinance and the referenced state law shall
govern except in case of conflict with the provisions of this chapter, in which
case, the more restrictive terms shall prevail. (1997 Code § 8-520; amd. 2014
Code)
5-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. Such person may also be enjoined from continuing such
violations. Each day upon which such a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation. (1997 Code § 8-521)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Powers Of City
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Certain Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-3-4: Nuisances Prohibited
5-3-5: Persons Liable
5-3-6: Lapse Of Time; Effect
5-3-7: Remedial Action
5-3-8: Abatement Of Nuisances Generally
5-3-9: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-3-10: Abatement Of Health Nuisances
5-3-11: Procedures Cumulative
5-3-1: POWERS OF CITY:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city is empowered to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the city has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be
done. (1997 Code § 8-108)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any
thing or condition which:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting agricultural
activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal. (1997 Code § 8-101; amd. 2014 Code)
5-3-3: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink, or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made. (1997 Code § 8-102)
      2.   Liquor Violations: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
alcoholic beverages in violation of state law or the ordinances of the city, or
the keeping of a place where alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale, or
furnished in violation of state law or the ordinances of the city. (1997 Code §
8-102; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects;
or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or
distributed.
      4.   Bawdy, Disorderly Houses:
         a.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards,
slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
         b.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
         c.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or city ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      5.   Diseased Persons: The public exposure of a person having a
contagious disease.
      6.   Noisy Conditions: The continued making of loud or unusual noises,
music or sounds, or strong vibrations which annoy persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises.
      7.   Interfering With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others.
      8.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      9.   Water Flowing, Ice Or Snow Falling Upon Streets: Permitting water or
other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk.
      10.   Stagnant Water Bodies: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety.
      11.   Conditions Attracting Pests: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be,
breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease causing germs, and the
premises on which such exist.
      12.   Garbage Accumulations: Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs, manure,
decayed or decaying vegetable matter left, kept or maintained in such condition
as to endanger the public health.
      13.   Dangerous Structures:
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      14.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      15.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      16.   Dangerous Businesses: Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      17.   Offensive Premises:
         a.   Any unclean, foul, leaking or broken or defective ditch, drain,
gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other receptacle in the city.
         b.   Permitting foul, noxious or offensive odors to escape from
premises; or unusual quantities of dust or other deleterious substances to
escape or emanate across the property line upon which the same originates.
      18.   Animal Houses And Noises:
         a.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the city, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation.
         b.   The keeping in violation of title 6, chapter 4 of this code of
any dog kennels within the city for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall
become offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise
made by the animals therein contained.
         c.   The keeping of any hog pen within the city limits in violation of
this code.
      19.   Animal Hides: Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any
exposed or open place within the city limits.
      20.   Sewer Systems:
         a.   Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human excrement,
slops, garbage, refuse or other filthy substance.
         b.   Every privy or water closet which shall be in an overflowing,
leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous, injurious or annoying
to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the city.
      21.   Bagworms: Permitting bagworms to be upon any trees or other plants
within the city.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The enumeration in subsection A of this section
of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions
of law or ordinance defining public or private nuisances either in more general
or more specific terms. (1997 Code § 8-102)
5-3-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall create or maintain a nuisance within the city or permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city. (1997 Code §
8-103)
5-3-5: PERSONS LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it. (1997 Code § 8-
104)
5-3-6: LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1997 Code § 8-105)
5-3-7: REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1997 Code § 8-
106)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement by the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15. (1997 Code § 8-107; amd. 2014 Code)
5-3-8: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   Summary Abatement: Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a
grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that
circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the
administrative officer or other appropriate officer or agency of the city
government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Statement Of Nuisance; Recommended Abatement: An officer subordinate to
the administrative officer may submit to the administrative officer a statement
as to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or
law, and a request or recommendation that it be abated.
   C.   Determination Of Nuisance Existence; Notice: The administrative officer
or his designee shall determine if a nuisance exists as defined by the
ordinances of the city or law. If he finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
he shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance by: 1) certified mail; or 2) by publication if the owner cannot be so
served or found, to abate the nuisance within a specified time if the peace,
health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely
affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay.
   D.   Abatement By City; Costs: If the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within
the specified time, or if the persons responsible authorize the city to abate
the nuisance, the administrative officer shall direct the appropriate officer
to abate the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The city shall send a statement
of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible
for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their
names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to
the city collectible as other debts may be collected.
   E.   Appeals: The determination of the existence of a nuisance and order to
abate, as made by the administrative officer, may be appealed by the occupant
or owner or person causing the nuisance by filing a request for hearing in
writing with the city clerk within the period of time specified in the notice
for abatement of the nuisance. The clerk shall cause the matter to be placed on
the agenda of the city council for final determination with appropriate notice
of the hearing provided to the person requesting the appeal. (1997 Code § 8-
109)
5-3-9: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to abridge the rights of
citizens of the city to bring and maintain actions in the proper courts for the
abatement of private nuisances or those specially injurious to them. (1997 Code
§ 8-111)
   B.   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance,
the city may bring suit in the district court. (1997 Code § 8-114)
5-3-10: ABATEMENT OF HEALTH NUISANCES:
   A.   Order To Abate: Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-1011, the city shall have the authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at
his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable. Such
order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant
of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the city or by a police
officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the
owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises is
unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is
outside the state, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the
premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City; Costs: If there is noncompliance
with the order, the city may cause the order to be executed and complied with,
and the cost thereof shall be certified and the cost of removing or abating
such nuisance shall be charged to the owner or occupant, enforceable as a lien
or any other method allowed by law or ordinance. (1997 Code § 8-110)
5-3-11: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by other
provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other. The city
may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating any
particular nuisance. (1997 Code § 8-115)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Cleaning And Mowing Of Property
5-4-3: Exceptions
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section.
   CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, or waste, wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin
cans or other used or disposed of objects or matter of any kind or form, which
is discarded, abandoned or in general not cared for.
   WEED: A. Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a detriment
to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposit or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (Ord. 2017-04, 5-1-2017, eff.
5-1-2017)
5-4-2: CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Cleaning And Mowing: The City may cause property within the City limits
to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with
the following procedure:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's Office before the City Council holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
said notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the City, and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the City. At the time of mailing of notice to the
property owner, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the City Council, notice may be given
by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined
in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one time not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the City. If the City anticipates summary
abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection B of
this section, the notice, whether by certified mail, posting or publication,
shall state: that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months after the removal of
trash or cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to such
notice may be summarily abated by the City; that the costs of such abatement
shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the
property to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the
property owner;
      2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving
written consent, the owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the City;
      3.   A hearing may be held by the City Council to determine whether the
accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the property
to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
property;
      4.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would benefit by the removal of such
conditions, the agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the City. Immediately
following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the City Clerk or City
Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the City and stating that the City claims a
lien on said property for the cleaning or mowing costs;
      5.   The City Council shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning
and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk or City Treasurer
shall forward by mail to the property owner specified in subsection A1 of this
section a statement of such actual cost and demand payment. If the cleaning and
mowing are done by the City, the cost to the property owner for said cleaning
and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and
equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract
basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder;
      6.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, then, within the next sixty (60) days, the City Clerk
or City Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost
to the County Treasurer, and the same shall be levied on the property and
collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Once
certified by the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County
Treasurer except as otherwise provided in this subsection. Until fully paid,
the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of
five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the County. If the County Treasurer and the
City agree that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the
City may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon by an action in personam against the property owner and an action in
rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed
from the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be
subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this subsection. Upon
receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk or City Treasurer shall forward to
the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the
lien; and
      7.   The City may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the City Council in subsection
A1 of this section. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the City
Council from any order of the administrative officer or administrative body.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
   B.   Abatement: If the City Council causes property within the City limits
to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with
the procedures provided in subsection A of this section, any subsequent
accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the property
occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and
may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At
the time of each such summary abatement, the City shall notify the property
owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of
mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided in subsection A
of this section. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such
abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in subsections A5, A6
and A7 of this section. This subsection shall not apply if the records of the
County Clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given
pursuant to subsection A1 of this section. (2014 Code)
   C.   Accumulation And Deposit Of Litter:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, occupying
any real property, either as tenant or owner to allow accumulation of brush,
broken concrete, ashes, sand, gravel, tree limbs in excess of two inches (2")
in diameter, metal pipes, pieces of heavy metal, automobile frames and engines,
metal shavings, dimension lumber, appliances and other bulky, heavy, non-
compactable materials. Any accumulation of such shall be disposed of by the
owner or person controlling same at their expense, and the materials shall not
be placed in dumpsters or other receptacles provided by the City for the
collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and other refuse.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, occupying
any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, wastepaper,
litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      3.   No person having in their possession, supervision or control,
whether as owner, occupant or tenant, any premises situated in the City, shall
allow or permit any such premises to have thereon any rubbish, wastepaper, tin
cans, junk, old vehicle parts, refrigerators, iceboxes, refuse or trash of any
description not properly cared for. No person, firm or corporation shall place
or dump any of the items herein mentioned in any public street, thoroughfare,
avenue or alley, or upon any vacant lot or premises within the City.
      4.   Maintained, decorative ornamental landscaping with the above named
items will be permitted unless it constitutes a nuisance.
   D.   Violation And Penalties: The City Council may enact ordinances to
prohibit owners of property or persons otherwise in possession or control of
property located within the City limits of New Cordell from allowing trash to
accumulate or weeds to grow or stand upon the premises and may impose penalties
for violation of said ordinances. (Ord. 2017-04, 5-1-2017, eff. 5-1-2017)
5-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the jurisdiction of the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission. However, the City Council may cause the
removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter but only if such weeds or
trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in or within ten (10) yards of
the public right-of-way at intersections. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Report Of Dilapidated Building
5-5-3: Condemnation And Abatement Procedures
5-5-4: Restoration Of Premises
5-5-5: Permit To Tear Down; Failure To Obtain
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: As defined in section
5-8-1 of this title.
   CLEANING OR CLEANED: The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A. A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public; or
   B.   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public; or
   C.   A structure within which acts which result in a felony conviction under
the Oklahoma uniform controlled dangerous substances act were performed
repeatedly; or
   D.   A structure declared by the city council to constitute a public
nuisance. (1997 Code § 8-301; amd. 2014 Code)
5-5-2: REPORT OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING:
Any officer or employee of the city who discovers or receives a report of a
dilapidated building which has become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community or creates a fire hazard to the danger
of property shall report such conditions to the administrative officer. (1997
Code § 8-302)
5-5-3: CONDEMNATION AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
The administrative officer may cause dilapidated buildings within the city
limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Notices: At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of
the property before the city takes action or holds a hearing as provided
herein. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected. In
addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at
the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the county
treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown
by the records in the office of the county clerk to the last known address of
the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property, or by publication, as defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
102. Such notice may be published once not less than ten (10) days prior to any
hearing or action to be taken pursuant to this section.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing shall be held by the city council to determine
whether the property is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the
health, benefit and welfare of the public and the community, or creates a fire
hazard to the danger of property.
   C.   Decision And Action: If the city council finds that the condition of
the property constitutes a detriment or a hazard, and that the property would
be benefited by the removal of such conditions, the city council may cause the
dilapidated building to be torn down and removed and shall fix reasonable dates
for the commencement and completion of the work. The city clerk shall
immediately file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the
property, the findings of the city council at the hearing, and stating that the
city claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal costs and
that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and
after the date of filing of the notice.
   D.   Appeal: The property owner shall have a right to appeal an order of the
administrative officer to the city council. The appeal shall be filed in
writing with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order
is rendered.
   E.   Methods Of Abatement: If the work is not performed by the property
owner within the dates fixed by the city council, the administrative officer
shall direct the tearing down and removal be done by one of the following
methods:
      1.   By the city.
      2.   On a private contract basis, in which case, it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
   F.   Costs; Lien Provisions:
      1.   After the building has been torn down and removed, the
administrative officer shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling and
removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses as may be necessary in
conjunction therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing.
      2.   The city clerk shall forward a statement of such actual cost
attributable to the dismantling and removal and a demand for payment by mail to
the property owner at the address specified in subsection A of this section. In
addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the
address specified in subsection A of this section.
      3.   At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee.
      4.   If payment is not made within six (6) months from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer. The city shall have a lien on
the property for such costs, together with interest thereon, and the lien shall
continue until the cost shall be fully paid.
      5.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city shall
file a release of lien or part thereof.
   G.   Additional Authority Of City: Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city from otherwise abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise
exercising its police power to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
   H.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (1997 Code § 8-303; amd.
2014 Code)
5-5-4: RESTORATION OF PREMISES:
In all cases in which: a) a house or building has been removed before the
effective date hereof; or b) a house or building is torn down or demolished
pursuant to order of the state fire marshal or one of his assistants or the
county sheriff or the chief of the fire department as provided by state law or
as provided in this chapter, and in which any of the following conditions
exist: a) the premises has not been cleaned up; b) the premises is cleaned up,
and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement, plaster, nails, wire, and other
material have not been removed; c) the materials have been removed but the
cellar space and excavations have not been filled; d) a cistern or well has not
been filled or safely and securely closed, and all openings to sanitary sewer
have not been plugged to meet the requirements of the city plumbing code and
securely closed; and e) the lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely
free from trash or the same was not immediately done, then the owner or owners
of the lot or lots and the person, firm, or corporation who tore down the house
or building shall immediately comply with the provisions of this chapter by
having all of the things done. (1997 Code § 8-304; amd. 2014 Code)
5-5-5: PERMIT TO TEAR DOWN; FAILURE TO OBTAIN:
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the city limits without having first procured permit therefor
shall be guilty of an offense against the city and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 8-305; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 6
JUNK OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Storing, Parking Or Leaving Abandoned, Junk Vehicles Prohibited;
Exceptions
5-6-3: Notice To Remove
5-6-4: Request For Hearing; Procedure
5-6-5: Responsibility For Removal; Lien Filed
5-6-6: Removal By City; Notice
5-6-7: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles; Release Of Lien
5-6-8: Civil Remedy
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CLASSIC AUTOMOBILE: A passenger car or truck, except a junked vehicle, which
is twenty five (25) model years or older and tagged pursuant to 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1105B5.
   JUNKED AUTOMOBILE: A. Any motor vehicle, the condition of which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   B.   A motor vehicle that has no lawful license plate affixed to it or has
affixed to it a license plate that has expired and that has remained expired
for more than ninety (90) days from its lawful renewal date.
   C.   A motor vehicle that remains inoperable for a continuous period of more
than forty five (45) days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, campers
and trailers.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property located within the city which is
privately owned and which is not included within the definition of "public
property" herein.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and any other publicly owned property or facility. (Ord.
2015-04, 5-19-2015, eff. 5-19-2015)
5-6-2: STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING ABANDONED, JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of
any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not,
upon any private property within the city, except where reasonable progress is
being made toward restoration or repair of such motor vehicle, for a period in
excess of ten (10) days. This section shall not apply to any vehicle in an
enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise which is
properly operated in the appropriate business zone pursuant to the city zoning
ordinance or when any such vehicle has been placed in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner. (1997 Code § 8-
402)
5-6-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   When it comes to the attention of the police chief or city zoning
administrator that any vehicle is in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, a notice in writing shall be served on the owner of the property,
notifying him of the violation of this chapter and requesting the removal of
the vehicle within ten (10) days of the service of the notice. Such notice
shall be served by posting a copy in a conspicuous place upon the private
property upon which the vehicle is located and sending duplicate copies by mail
to the owner of the private property as recorded on the current year's tax
rolls in the office of the county treasurer. At the time of mailing of the
notice, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service
which shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
mailee. (1997 Code § 8-404; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time
specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that, upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the city or its designee shall undertake such
removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the owner of the
property. (1997 Code § 8-405; amd. 2014 Code)
5-6-4: REQUEST FOR HEARING; PROCEDURE:
   A.   The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized
agents, may file a written request for hearing before the city council or its
designee, within the ten (10) day period of compliance prescribed in this
chapter for the purposes of defending the charges by the city.
   B.   The hearing shall be held as soon as is practical and possible after
the filing of the request, and the persons to whom the notices are directed
shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing at least ten (10) days in
advance thereof. At any such hearing, the city and the persons to whom the
notices have been directed may introduce such witnesses and evidence as either
party deems necessary. (1997 Code § 8-406; amd. 2014 Code)
5-6-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL; LIEN FILED:
The owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either
or all of them, shall be responsible for the vehicle's removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the city, the owner of the private property where
the same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred. The city clerk
shall immediately file a notice of lien with the county clerk stating that the
city claims a lien on the property for the removal of the junk motor vehicle.
(1997 Code § 8-403; amd. 2014 Code)
5-6-6: REMOVAL BY CITY; NOTICE:
If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within the ten
(10) day period of compliance, or in the event that a notice requesting a
hearing is timely filed, a hearing is had, and the existence of the violation
is affirmed by the city council or its designee, the chief of police or his
designee shall have the right to take possession of the vehicle and remove it
from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property
for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code § 8-407; amd. 2014 Code)
5-6-7: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES; RELEASE OF LIEN:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the sale or destruction
thereof. Upon proof of redemption of the vehicle, the city clerk shall file a
release of lien, but if the vehicle is not redeemed prior to sale or
destruction, the city clerk shall, within thirty (30) days of such sale or
destruction, forward a certified statement of the amount of the actual costs of
impoundment, sale and/or destruction of the vehicle to the county treasurer.
Such lien shall not be released until the costs shall be fully paid. (1997 Code
§ 8-409; amd. 2014 Code)
5-6-8: CIVIL REMEDY:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from pursuing a civil remedy for
the amount owing and interest thereon. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose
5-7-2: City Policy
5-7-3: Definitions
5-7-4: Noise Levels Established
5-7-5: Specific Noises Prohibited And Restricted
5-7-6: Exemptions
5-7-7: Variances
5-7-8: Enforcement And Penalties
5-7-1: PURPOSE:
Noise abatement in the city is declared a matter of public policy, and the
provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in pursuance
of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare, and peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the
city. (1997 Code § 8-601)
5-7-2: CITY POLICY:
   A.   It is the policy of the city to comply with the noise emission
standards set forth in this chapter in its own operations, and its contractors
and subcontractors shall be notified of and required to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. (1997 Code § 8-602; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   It is the policy of the city to purchase only equipment which complies
to the standards established for the same by this chapter. (1997 Code § 8-602)
5-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows:
   DEVICE: Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually
produces, noise when operated or handled.
   DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE (Commonly Referred To As JACOBS BRAKE): A device used
primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or
to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property or a public utility
to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work required to protect
persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled by mechanical power
including, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers,
semitrailers, campers, motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts, mopeds, and racing
vehicles.
   MUFFLER: An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
   NOISE: Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs reasonable persons
with normal sensitivities or which injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, hearing, peace or safety of other persons.
   PERSON: Any human being, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user,
owner or operator, including any municipal corporation or its officers or
employees.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE: Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised
or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
   PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line exterior to any enclosed structure, at
the ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real
property owned by one person from that owned by another person or such
imaginary line which separates individual living units in a multiple-family
dwelling.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, or alley or
similar place which is owned or controlled by a public government entity.
   USE DISTRICT: Those districts established by the city zoning ordinances.
(1997 Code § 8-611; amd. 2014 Code)
5-7-4: NOISE LEVELS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Stationary Noise Levels: It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any person to operate or permit to be operated any stationary source of sound
which creates a noise disturbance. (1997 Code § 8-604; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Motor Vehicle Noise: No person shall operate or cause to be operated
any motor vehicle unless the exhaust system of such vehicle is:
      1.   Free from defects which affect sound reduction;
      2.   Equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device;
      3.   Not equipped with any cutout, bypass or similar device; and
      4.   Not modified in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by a muffler of the
type originally installed on the vehicle. (1997 Code § 8-605; amd. 2014 Code)
5-7-5: SPECIFIC NOISES PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED:
In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined in subsections A2 and C of
this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause
to be made or continued any noise disturbance within the limits of the city.
The following acts are declared to be in violation of this chapter:
   A.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Horns And Signaling Devices: Sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle or other vehicle
on any street or public place therein except as a danger warning signal as
provided in the vehicle code of the state of Oklahoma, or the sounding of any
such signaling device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      2.   Racing Events: Permitting any motor vehicle racing event at any
place in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance without first obtaining
a permit as provided in section 5-7-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Dynamic Engine Braking Devices (Commonly Referred To As Jacobs
Brakes): Operating any motor vehicle with a dynamic engine braking device
engaged except for the aversion of imminent danger.
      4.   Defective Vehicle: Operating or permitting to be operated or used
any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle which, by virtue of
disrepair or manner of operation, causes a noise disturbance.
      5.   Garbage Collection: The collection of garbage, waste or refuse
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the
following day:
         a.   In any area zoned residential, or within three hundred feet
(300') of an area zoned residential.
         b.   In any land use district so as to cause a noise disturbance.
      6.   Standing Vehicles: The operating or causing or permitting to be
operated any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached thereto in such
a manner as to cause a noise disturbance for a consecutive period longer than
fifteen (15) minutes during which such vehicle is stationary in a residential
zone.
      7.   Repair Noises: Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any
vehicle, recreational vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within
a quiet zone.
   B.   Radios, Musical Devices And Loudspeakers:
      1.   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar devices as
follows:
         a.   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided in subsection B2 of this section, in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance; and
         b.   The operating of any such device between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at the property boundary of the source or
plainly audible at fifty feet (50') (15 meters) from such device when operated
in or on a vehicle on a public right of way or public space or in a boat on
public waters.
      2.   Using or operating a loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment in a
fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound vehicle in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, or public property for the purpose of
commercial advertising, giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses, or
lectures, or transmitting music to any person or assemblages of persons in such
a manner as to cause a noise disturbance unless a permit as provided by section
5-7-7 of this chapter is first obtained.
   C.   Hawkers And Peddlers: Selling anything by outcry (vocal, electrical, or
mechanical amplification), within any area of the city therein zoned primarily
for residential uses in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance. The
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the selling by
outcry of merchandise, food, and beverages at licensed sporting events,
parades, fairs, circuses, and other similar licensed public entertainment
events or sales by auctioneers.
   D.   Animals: Owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any animal which, by
frequent or habitual noisemaking, causes a noise disturbance. The provisions of
this subsection shall apply to all private and public facilities, including any
animal pounds, which hold or treat animals.
   E.   Loading Operations: Loading, unloading, opening or otherwise handling
boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers or other objects between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
   F.   Construction:
      1.   Operating, or causing to be used or operated, any equipment used in
construction, repair, alteration, or demolition work on buildings, structures,
streets, alleys, or appurtenances thereto in residential or commercial land use
districts between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. the following day.
      2.   Operating or permitting to be operated any power equipment used for
home or building repair or grounds maintenance including, but not limited to,
power saw, sander, lawn mower, or garden equipment in residential or commercial
zones outdoors between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day.
      3.   Operating or permitting to be operated any power equipment, except
construction equipment, used for construction activities, including, but not
limited to, chain saws, pavement breakers, log chippers and powered hand tools
in residential or commercial land use districts between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
   G.   Fireworks, Guns And Explosives: The use of explosives or fireworks or
the firing of guns or other explosive devices so as to be audible across a
property boundary or on a public space or right of way without first obtaining
a permit as provided by section
 5-7-7 of this chapter. This subsection shall not be construed to permit
conduct prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations governing such
activity.
   H.   Powered Model Mechanical Devices: The flying of a model aircraft
powered by internal combustion engines, whether tethered or not, or the firing
or operating of model rocket vehicles or other similar noise producing devices
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day or in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
   I.   Quiet Zones: Creating noise within the vicinity of any school,
hospital, nursing home, institution of learning, court, or other designated
area, while the same is in use, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets indicating that the same is a quiet zone.
   J.   Bells And Chimes: Sounding or operating, or permitting to sound or
operate, an electronically amplified signal limited to bells, chimes or clocks
in schools, houses of religious worship or governmental buildings for more than
five (5) minutes in any hour.
   K.   Fixed Sirens, Whistles And Horns: The sounding or causing the sounding
of any whistle, horn, or siren as a signal for commencing or suspending work,
or for any other purpose except as a sound signal of imminent danger or the
testing of such equipment, in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
   L.   People: Talking, laughing, yelling, singing, or otherwise making noise
by people between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. the following day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
   M.   Testing Emergency Alarms: Testing of any emergency type alarm shall be
prohibited between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. of the following day. (1997 Code § 8-607; amd. 2014 Code)
5-7-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency; or
   B.   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work. (1997 Code
§ 8-608)
5-7-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Permit Requirements: Applications for a permit for relief from the
noise restrictions of these regulations on the basis of undue hardship may be
made to the city clerk. Any permit granted by the city clerk or his authorized
representative shall contain all conditions upon which the permit has been
granted including, but not limited to, the effective dates, time of day,
location of sound pressure level, or equipment limitation. The relief requested
may be granted upon good and sufficient showing:
      1.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or
modify his activity or operation to comply with this chapter;
      2.   That the activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this chapter;
and
      3.   That no reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   B.   Conditions: The city clerk may prescribe any reasonable conditions or
requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse effects upon a community or
the surrounding neighborhood. (1997 Code § 8-609)
5-7-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The city marshal or designated representative or
agent will have enforcement responsibility for this chapter as it relates to
stationary sources and joint enforcement responsibility with appropriate law
enforcement agencies as it relates to vehicular sources. (1997 Code § 8-610)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: A violation of any provision of this chapter is
deemed and declared to be a nuisance, and such may be subject to summary
abatement by means of a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (1997 Code § 8-613)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be
punishable as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. Each time such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(1997 Code § 8-612)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Enforcement Officials
5-8-2: Citations
5-8-3: Hearings
5-8-4: Appeals
5-8-5: Obstructing City Officials Prohibited
5-8-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The mayor or city administrator is designated as the administrative officer to
perform the duties of the city council with respect to public nuisance
abatement. The administrative officer may further delegate to his staff the
aforementioned duties of the administrative officer, including the duty of
administrative officer. (1997 Code § 8-120)
5-8-2: CITATIONS:
The administrative officer or his designee is designated to issue citations for
violations of this title, including nuisances, weeds and trash, abandoned
vehicles and health laws. (1997 Code § 8-120)
5-8-3: HEARINGS:
Any administrative hearings for violations of the above referenced sections
shall be before the mayor or an administrative officer designated by the mayor.
A hearing shall be scheduled on completion and filing with the city clerk an
application therefor, pursuant to the appropriate sections of this title, in
accordance with the provisions contained therein. (1997 Code § 8-120)
5-8-4: APPEALS:
Appeals from the decision of the administrative officer shall be to the city
council, in accordance with the applicable code provisions. (1997 Code § 8-120)
5-8-5: OBSTRUCTING CITY OFFICIALS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any health
officer or other code enforcement officer charged with the enforcement of the
health or nuisance laws of the city. (1997 Code § 8-117)
CHAPTER 9
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definition Of Terms
5-9-2: Medical Marijuana License
5-9-3: Cultivator And Processor Facilities
5-9-1: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION: An establishment licensed under title 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 422 whereby the growing of medical marijuana is
conducted on the premises and then sold to a licensed retailer or processor.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: An establishment licensed under title 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 421 whereby the retail sale of medical marijuana is
conducted on the premises.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR: An establishment licensed under title 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 423 whereby marijuana plants are processed (packaged)
into concentrates, edible, and other forms for consumption. (Ord. 2018-05, 8-
20-2018, eff. 8-20-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 7-1-2019; Ord. 2019-10, 11-4-2019)
5-9-2: MEDICAL MARIJUANA LICENSE:
   A.   All operators of retail marijuana dispensaries are required to obtain a
retail marijuana dispensary permit from the city clerk.
   B.   The city council will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
retail marijuana dispensary permit. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs relating to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   C.   A retail marijuana dispensary will not be granted to any applicant
where the proposed location would be located within one thousand feet (1,000')
of the following uses: private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational or trade school, college or university.
   D.   For the distance requirements outlined in this section, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the proposed medical marijuana dispensary to the
nearest entrance of the building or unit described above.
   E.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off-
premises.
   F.   Any violations of this section shall result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana dispensary permit.
   G.   It is the intent of the city that nothing in this chapter be construed
to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
city ordinance or state law. (Ord. 2018-05, 8-20-2018, eff. 8-20-2018; amd.
Ord. 2019-05, 7-1-2019)
5-9-3: CULTIVATOR AND PROCESSOR FACILITIES:
   A.   Medical marijuana cultivator facilities are hereby allowed within the
municipal boundaries of the city.
   B.   Medical marijuana processors are hereby allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the city.
   C.   All operators of medical marijuana cultivator facilities shall obtain a
medical marijuana cultivator permit from the city clerk prior to commencing
such operations.
   D.   All operators of medical marijuana processing facilities shall obtain a
medical marijuana processor permit from the city clerk prior to commencing such
operations.
   E.   The city council will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
medical marijuana cultivator permit and the medical marijuana processor permit.
The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs relating to
licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of laws relating to
medical marijuana cultivator facilities.
   F.   Buildings where medical marijuana is grown, processed, stored and sold
by medical marijuana cultivators and medical marijuana processors must be
equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are
detectable off premises.
   G.   Any violation of this section shall result in the revocation of the
medical marijuana cultivator permit and the medical marijuana processor permit.
   H.   Medical marijuana cultivators and medical marijuana processor shall
strictly follow all Oklahoma Statutes and Oklahoma medical marijuana authority
rules and regulations relating to medical marijuana. Any breach of the Oklahoma
Statutes or Oklahoma medical marijuana authority rules and regulations shall
result in the revocation of the medical marijuana cultivator permit and the
medical marijuana processor permit.
   I.   Medical marijuana cultivator facilities and medical marijuana
processing facilities can only be located within areas of the city zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes. (Ord. 2019-10, 11-4-2019)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Police Department   1
Fire Department   2
Service Outside City Limits   2A
Emergency Management Department   3
Animal Control   4
Pets   4A
General Offenses   5
Offenses Against Peace And Persons   5A
Offenses Involving Property   5B
Offenses Against Decency And Morality   5C
Offenses Involving Liquor And Drugs   5D
Offenses Against Public Authority   5E
Minors   6
Juvenile Crime Act   6A
Youth Access To Tobacco   6B
Additional Regulations Regarding Minors   6C
Fair Housing   7
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Chief
6-1-2: Duties Of Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police,
or the police chief. He shall have such privileges, responsibilities,
authorities, powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by applicable
law, ordinance, resolution, or city policy. He shall be subject to and under
the administrative direction of the office of the mayor in the same manner as
any and all other heads of city departments and divisions. The chief of police
shall, in a timely manner, enroll in, attend and satisfactorily complete all
specialty training required of chiefs of police by the Oklahoma council on law
enforcement education and training (CLEET). The chief of police shall be a
salaried employee of the city with such salary being annually determined and
established at such time and in such manner as are salaries and wages for other
city employees. The chief of police shall be entitled to receive all the same
employee benefits as are afforded to full time employees of the police
department. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-16-2007)
6-1-2: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice violators of the ordinances of the city; to
suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating state laws as provided by law and to
turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all duties
pertaining to the offices of police officers. (1997 Code § 13-302)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established
6-2-2: Duties Of Department
6-2-3: Fire Chief
6-2-4: Other Department Personnel
6-2-5: New Members
6-2-6: Bylaws
6-2-7: Equipment
6-2-8: Rules And Regulations
6-2-9: Authority At Emergency Scenes
6-2-10: Entry Powers
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is a fire department of the city, the head of which is the chief
of the fire department. (1997 Code § 13-201)
   B.   The fire department of the city is a volunteer department which has in
its service not more than two (2) full time salaried firefighters and not less
than twelve (12) nor more than twenty five (25) volunteer firefighters. (1997
Code § 13-202; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter is considered
as one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department and who serves in the
capacity without receiving a regular salary. (1997 Code § 13-202)
   D.   Membership of the department shall consist of such persons as may be
appointed by the chief and shall be persons residing within the city.
Determination of whether candidates for appointment are capable of performing
their duties shall be made by the chief after a medical and physical
examination has been made in a manner prescribed by the chief and approved by
the mayor. (1997 Code § 13-207)
6-2-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention and safety of persons
from fire in public and private buildings. (1997 Code § 13-201)
6-2-3: FIRE CHIEF:
The fire chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject to
the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
   A.   Shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient operation
of the department, the training of members, and the performance of all other
duties imposed upon him and shall have supervision and control of the fire
department, subject to the supervision and control by the mayor;
   B.   May inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the department the
fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least twice each
year; (1997 Code § 13-203)
   C.   Shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention and
fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all members;
(1997 Code § 13-203; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the officers and
members in the performance of their duties;
   E.   Shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the department;
   F.   Shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its
cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson, shall notify
proper authorities and secure the preservation of all possible evidence for
future use in the case;
   G.   Is authorized to enter any building or premises in the city at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
   H.   Shall see that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the department and
shall make reports to the mayor as he may require. He shall keep the city
informed regarding the fire department and its needs. (1997 Code § 13-203)
6-2-4: OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Assistant Chief:
      1.   In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall
command the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with
the full powers and responsibilities of the chief.
      2.   The assistant chief shall be elected from among the members of the
department and be appointed by the chief, with the approval of the mayor. (1997
Code § 13-204)
   B.   Company Officers: Company officers shall be selected by the chief based
on the following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1997 Code § 13-205)
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the fire
department, subject to approval of the chief, shall be a secretary-treasurer.
His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (1997 Code §
13-206)
   D.   Social Officers: The department may elect a president, vice president,
secretary or treasurer to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term the members may decide upon, and their
duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions sponsored
by the members. The functions and duties of the social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the department. (1997 Code §
13-210)
6-2-5: NEW MEMBERS:
   A.   Appointment; Probation: New members of the department shall be
appointed by the chief and shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment. Upon completion of their probation period, new members must be
approved by the majority of the other members of the fire department, the chief
and the mayor. (1997 Code § 13-207)
   B.   Training: Applicants for prospective firefighter positions shall serve
a six (6) month training program. During the training period, the trainee shall
not be granted a firefighter status and is not eligible to be placed on the
rolls as a firefighter or be enrolled in the fire pension plan until such time
as the firefighter is selected as provided herein. At no time will a trainee be
appointed except when a regular firefighter's employment is terminated or a
regular firefighter is within six (6) months of retirement. (1997 Code § 13-
207; amd. 2014 Code)
6-2-6: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   C.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held each
month;
   D.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be expelled from the
fire department rolls;
   E.   Any member leaving the city for an extended period of time is required
to notify the chief;
   F.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be expelled;
   G.   Any member of the fire department may be expelled from the rolls by a
majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the chief for the
following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department; or
      5.   Conviction of a felony. (1997 Code § 13-208)
6-2-7: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Authorized Equipment: The department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Purchase Of Equipment: Recommendations of apparatus and equipment
needed shall be made by the chief, purchased after approval as other city
purchases.
   C.   Storage: All equipment of the department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the mayor.
   D.   Fire Alarms: Suitable arrangements and equipment shall be provided for
people to turn in alarms and to notify members of the department so that they
may promptly respond.
   E.   Use Of Equipment:
      1.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
      2.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the department. (1997 Code § 13-211)
6-2-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department and its organization, operation and
compensation. (1997 Code § 13-209)
6-2-9: AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCY SCENES:
   A.   The fire chief, assistant fire chiefs or other fire department officers
in charge shall have complete charge and control at all fires. Fire orders
shall be obeyed.
   B.   The chief or his officers may prescribe limits in the vicinity of a
fire which no persons except those residing or owning property therein shall be
permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in command.
   C.   Police officers may aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. (1997 Code § 13-212)
6-2-10: ENTRY POWERS:
The chief of the fire department and his designee may at all reasonable hours
enter any building or premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
making any inspection or investigation which, under the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this code, he may deem necessary to make. (1997
Code § 13-213)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
ARTICLE A. SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Authority To Contract
6-2A-2: Payment For Services
6-2A-3: Distance Limitations
6-2A-4: Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
6-2A-5: Agent Of State
6-2A-6: Fees For Fire Calls
6-2A-1: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT:
The city is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
military installations or commands, or political subdivisions of the state for
fire protection outside the corporate limits of the city, and to contract to
provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal
subdivisions of the state. (1997 Code § 13-221)
6-2A-2: PAYMENT FOR SERVICES:
Any contract entered into by the city, with an individual owner, a firm,
private corporation, association or political subdivision, for outside aid or
mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation, association or political subdivision for such
service, equipment or personnel in an amount reached through negotiation by the
parties. (1997 Code § 13-222)
6-2A-3: DISTANCE LIMITATIONS:
The fire department is authorized to answer all calls outside the city within a
reasonable distance of the city limits if first approved by the fire chief on
duty. The fire chief shall determine that the equipment and personnel to be
dispatched for such calls are not needed for other purposes within the city.
(1997 Code § 13-223)
6-2A-4: SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
All firefighters attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work
outside the corporate limits of the city, as herein provided, shall be
considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were
serving within the corporate limits of the city. The firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any fire pension and relief fund in the same
manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done within the
corporate limits of the city. (1997 Code § 13-225)
6-2A-5: AGENT OF STATE:
The fire department, when answering any fire alarm or call or performing any
fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the city, shall be
considered an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone in a governmental
capacity, and the city shall not be liable in damages for any act of
commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning from any fire,
or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this
article. (1997 Code § 13-226)
6-2A-6: FEES FOR FIRE CALLS:
The charges for fire calls shall be as specified in the fee schedule. (1997
Code § 13-224; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Duties Of Department
6-3-3: Director
6-3-4: Emergency Powers
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management department for
the city to be prepared for and to function in the event of emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the citizens of the city. (Ord. 2002-05,
7-1-2002; amd. 2014 Code)
6-3-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
The duty of the emergency management department shall be the protection of the
lives and health of the citizens of the city and the property and property
rights, both private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and
incidental thereto. (Ord. 2002-05, 7-1-2002; amd. 2014 Code)
6-3-3: DIRECTOR:
   A.   City Administrator Serve As; Duties: The department is headed by a
director. The city administrator shall function as the emergency management
director. The director of the department shall be the administrative head of
the department and shall be responsible for carrying out the emergency
management program of the city in coordination with the city council. He shall
have such further duties and responsibilities to coordinate with all emergency
services agencies of other governmental units including the state and federal
governments.
   B.   Deputy Director: The mayor or director, when empowered by the mayor,
may designate some person as deputy director and shall prescribe the duties of
the deputy from time to time as necessary for the carrying out of the emergency
management program of the city. The deputy shall perform all duties of the
director upon the death, disability or illness, or separation from service of
the director. In addition to the foregoing duties, the deputy shall render such
aid or assistance and perform such duties under the emergency management
program of the city as may be required by the director. (Ord. 2002-05, 7-1-
2002)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director, upon the signing by the mayor of a disaster
emergency proclamation, shall assume the duties of incident commander, and
shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to emergency management and, if necessary, to take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. The
incident commander shall have the authority to appoint personnel to the
emergency command structure as outlined in the city's emergency operations
plan. He shall be responsible for coordination with other governmental agencies
and emergency management services.
   B.   The director and other members of the department herein shall have the
power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city
during the period of the emergency, and shall at such time have the further
power to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances. (Ord. 2002-05,
7-1-2002)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Animals At Large
6-4-3: Nuisance Animals
6-4-4: Pasturing Animals
6-4-5: Containment Of Animals; Swine Prohibited
6-4-6: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4-7: Animal Bites; Rabies Suspects
6-4-8: Treatment Of Animals
6-4-9: Euthanization Of Deadly Animals
6-4-10: Enforcement Official
6-4-11: Investigations
6-4-12: Records Kept
6-4-13: Court Procedures And Complaints
6-4-14: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section. All other words or phrases used herein shall
be defined and interpreted according to their common usage.
   ABANDON: The voluntary relinquishment of an animal and shall include, but
shall not be limited to, vacating a premises and leaving the animal in or at
the premises, or failing to feed the animal, or allowing it to stray or wander
onto private or public property with the intention of surrendering ownership or
custody over the animal.
   AGGRESSIVE DOG: Any dog which engages in any of the following conduct within
the city limits:
   A.   Approaches any person, without provocation, in a menacing manner,
whether or not an attack actually occurs.
   B.   In an attacking manner, encroaches over, through or under a fence onto
public property or onto the private property of another.
   C.   Inflicts a puncture wound, abrasion, or other wound caused by the dog's
teeth upon a person or animal, except a noxious animal, even if such injury
does not meet the definition of serious injury.
   D.   Kills any other animal, other than a noxious animal.
   ANIMAL: Any vertebrate, nonhuman animal, whether domesticated or wild,
including, but not limited to, birds and fowl, cats, dogs, livestock of all
types, other mammals, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons employed by the city as its
enforcement officer in the impoundment of animals, controlling of animals
running at large, and as otherwise provided or required in this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER: Any premises designated by action of the city
council for purposes of impounding and caring for animals.
AT LARGE OR RUNNING AT LARGE: Any animal that either:
   A.   Is not securely confined while on the owner's premises; or
   B.   Is not under the direct verbal control of the owner or responsible
designee, while on the owner's premises; or
   C.   Is not under the control of the owner or responsible designee, by leash
or by physical carrying of the animal, when not on the owner's premises.
   CONFINE OR CONFINED: To place in a state of "confinement" as defined in this
section.
   CONFINEMENT: That condition in which an animal is securely and physically
restrained on and within the premises of the owner by means of walls, fences,
ropes, chain, leash or other device of such strength and size as to physically
prevent the animal from leaving the premises and to physically prevent the
animal from causing physical injury to persons or other animals which are off
the premises upon which the confined animal is located.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private property;
   B.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such by the animal control officer or designee in writing,
and the dog thereafter aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of
humans; or
   C.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such by the animal control officer or designee in writing,
and the dog thereafter attacks a dog which results in the death of said dog
either on public or private property.
   DISEASED ANIMAL: An animal believed to be infected with a dangerous or
communicable disease, such as rabies.
   ENCLOSED: To be within an enclosure.
   ENCLOSURE: While on the property of the owner, secure confinement either
indoors or in a locked pen or structure suitable to prevent unauthorized entry
and designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES: Any animal that has been bitten by or exposed to any
other animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL: Chickens, turkeys, guineas, geese, ducks and pigeons.
   IMPOUNDMENT: Placing an animal in the animal control vehicle or unit or
holding an animal in custody at the animal control shelter.
   KENNEL: Includes any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs or
cats. Kennel includes any place where more than one litter of puppies or
kittens, born to different female dogs or cats, are kept on any lot or premises
or kept in any structure whether or not for a business purpose. Kennel also
includes any place where more than ten (10) dogs, cats, or combination of dogs
and cats are kept on any lot or premises or kept in any structure whether or
not for a business purpose.
   MENACING MANNER: An animal exhibits behavior that would cause any competent
person observing the animal to reasonably believe that the animal will cause
physical injury to persons or other animals.
   MUZZLE: A muzzling device constructed of strong, soft material or a metal
muzzle such as that used commercially with greyhounds. The muzzle must be made
in a manner which will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person, animal or
livestock.
   NEUTER: To remove the testicles of a male dog or cat in order to render the
animal unable to reproduce.
   NOXIOUS: When referring to an animal, means any nondomesticated or wild
animal that damages property or renders property unusable by being present in
the property. The term noxious shall not apply to any nondomesticated or wild
animal that is protected by state or federal regulations.
   OWNER OR KEEPER: Any person, family, group of persons, firm or corporation
owning, keeping, maintaining, or harboring, or having care or custody of, an
animal or animals as defined in this chapter.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human either on public or private
property; or
   B.   When unprovoked, attacks a dog which results in the death of said dog
either on public or private property.
   PROVOKE OR PROVOCATION: With respect to an attack by an animal, means the
animal was teased, tormented, or abused, including, but not limited to, being
hit, kicked, or struck by a person with an object or part of a person's body or
that any part of the animal's body is pulled, pinched or squeezed by a person.
   SANITARY: A condition of good odor and cleanliness which precludes the
probability of disease transmission and insect breeding and which preserves the
health of the city.
   SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery.
   SPAY: To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat in order to render the
animal unable to reproduce.
   VACCINATION: An injection of rabies vaccine administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION: That an animal was not provoked, as defined in this
section; also, where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner's
property from criminal activity by a perpetrator of a crime. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-
1-2013)
6-4-2: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for an owner to permit, or fail to prevent, any animal
that he owns or keeps to run at large. An animal running at large in the city
may be taken by the animal control officer and impounded at the animal shelter.
The animal control officer may, at his discretion, cite the owner of such
animal to appear in municipal court to answer charges of violation of this
chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person who is not the owner of an animal to turn
said animal at large without the consent of the owner. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-3: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall keep any animal which:
      1.   Causes frequent or long continued noise or otherwise so as to
disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
      2.   Causes excessive odor, either from itself or from its excretions, so
as to disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
      3.   Molests or chases passersby or passing vehicles.
      4.   Damages public or private property.
      5.   Defecates on public or private property, other than the owner's
premises, unless the owner immediately removes said feces, places the feces in
a sack or bag designed for the disposal of garbage or feces, and disposes of it
in a proper garbage container.
   B.   Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance, as provided
in subsection
5-3-3B of this code and, as such, may be abated.
   C.   Any person with knowledge thereof may file a complaint in the municipal
court against the owner or keeper of an animal which disturbs the comfort or
repose of any person in the vicinity or which is in violation of this chapter.
If the court finds that an animal is a nuisance or in violation of this
chapter, the court may order the owner or keeper to prevent and abate the
nuisance, or order the animal impounded, with the owner or keeper to pay
impoundment costs, or order punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-4: PASTURING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to pasture any animal on any public property or
private property without the consent of the person owning or controlling the
property. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-5: CONTAINMENT OF ANIMALS; SWINE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Conditions: It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal within the
city except when there has been compliance with the following conditions:
      1.   Sanitary Premises: Every building or place where any animal is kept
shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept
sanitary at all times.
      2.   Livestock:
         a.   For fowl, horses, cattle or other livestock, except swine, a lot
or pen of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet in area shall be
provided, and the lot or pen shall have substantial fencing. No part of the lot
or pen shall be within fifty feet (50') of any private dwelling or place used
for residential purposes other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of
the premises upon which the animal is kept.
            (1)   Domesticated Fowl: Domesticated fowl shall be defined only as
a chicken and rooster. Such domestic fowl may be kept within the City up to a
maximum number of ten (10) with one (1) rooster and a chicken coop building to
house them. No part of the chicken coop building, fence or lot shall be located
within twenty feet (20') of any private dwelling or place used for residential
purposes other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon
which the domesticated fowl are kept. The chicken coop building and lot shall
always be maintained in a sanitary condition. This Article 6-4-5 (A) (2) (a)
(1) shall only apply to the keeping of domestic fowl. All lots or pens where
domesticated fowl are located shall have substantial fencing suitable for
containing domesticated fowl. All other provisions of this code remain in full
effect.
         b.   Any lot or pen for keeping animals, as required by this section,
that, as of April 1, 2013, does not meet the area or distance requirements of
this section shall be considered nonconforming, and the continued use of such
lot or pen for the keeping of such animals shall be lawful; provided, that no
new animals are added to the lot or pen in question, the area of the pen does
not decrease, the distance to the nearest residence does not decrease unless
the final distance is greater than or equal to fifty feet (50'), and the lot or
pen is in compliance with all other provisions of this code.
         c.   All such lots or places shall comply with sanitary requirements
of this chapter and of state law.
   B.   Swine Prohibited: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to have
custody or control of, or to own or keep any hog, shoat, pig, or other swine in
the city, except in the case of the animals in question being part of a
temporary event approved by the city.
   C.   Inspections: The animal control officer or health officer may inspect
any structure or place where an animal is kept on his own initiative or upon
complaint. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary to
the owner of such animal to cause the animal to be kept as required in this
chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a
complaint before the municipal court against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or of any such reasonable order. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-
2013; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 2023-01, 3-20-2023)
6-4-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Animal Shelter: The city may contract with an outside agency to serve
as the city's animal shelter or pound to provide for the impoundment of animals
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals:
      1.   Any dog or cat or other domesticated animal found in violation of
any provision of this chapter may be picked up and immediately impounded in the
animal shelter and there confined in a humane manner. The animal control
officer, upon receiving an animal for impoundment, shall record or cause to be
recorded the description of the animal and the name and address of the owner as
may be shown on applicable city animal control records. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-
2013; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   If the owner is known, the officer shall: a) notify the owner at an
address or telephone number available to the city; or b) leave a notice with a
member of the owner's family, or other person residing at the owner's home, as
shown in the city's records, over the age of fifteen (15) years, to notify the
owner that unless reclaimed within seventy two (72) hours after impoundment,
Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays excluded, the animal will be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of in one of the following manners:
         a.   The animal may be humanely euthanized, the cost of which shall be
borne by the owner of the animal if such owner is known.
         b.   The animal may be adopted to a new person, so long as such
adoption is in compliance with this chapter and with state law.
         c.   The animal may be handed over to the custody of a nonprofit
humane society or animal shelter, or the designee of such nonprofit entity, at
no charge. Such shelter or humane society must be organized under federal law
as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit entity.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animal: An owner of an impounded animal or his
agent may redeem the animal prior to its sale or destruction as provided herein
by paying the required fees against the animal and meeting any other
requirements which may be prescribed in this chapter. If the owner or his agent
has not redeemed the animal within seventy two (72) hours after the impoundment
of the animal, the animal may be otherwise disposed of as provided herein.
   D.   Adoption Provisions:
      1.   A person desiring to adopt a dog or cat from impoundment shall pay
an adoption fee as set by the city council by motion or resolution, costs of
necessary vaccinations, and a deposit to be set by the city council by motion
or resolution of an amount not less than ten dollars ($10.00) to guarantee the
neutering or spaying of the dog or cat, and shall sign an agreement with the
city ensuring that the dog or cat will be spayed or neutered.
      2.   Funds deposited for the guarantee of neutering or spaying shall be
refunded to the adopting party upon the adopting party's presentation of a
written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that the adopted animal has
been spayed or neutered. However, no refunds shall be made unless said animal
was spayed or neutered within sixty (60) days of adoption in the case of adult
animals; or in case of infant animals, within thirty (30) days of the date a
female animal attained the age of six (6) months or a male animal attained the
age of eight (8) months.
      3.   Upon the presentation of a written report from a licensed
veterinarian stating that the life or health of an adopted animal may be
jeopardized by surgery, a thirty (30) day extension shall be granted for the
period within which the spay or neuter surgery would otherwise be required.
Further extensions may be granted upon additional veterinary reports stating
their necessity.
      4.   Funds deposited for the guarantee of neutering or spaying shall be
refunded to the adopting party upon reasonable proof being presented that the
adopted animal died before the expiration of the period during which the
spaying or neutering was required to be completed.
      5.   Funds which have been forfeited by adopting parties shall be placed
in a separate account, which shall be an interest bearing account whenever
feasible. Funds shall be allocated from said account to programs that directly
promote, subsidize or otherwise reduce the cost of spaying or neutering animals
of the city. The city shall maintain accurate records of accounts which fund
spay/neuter programs.
   E.   Fees; Vaccination Requirements:
      1.   Fees for impounding and boarding an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, are as set by the city council by motion or resolution. In
computing a fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal or fowl has been
fed shall be deemed a full day. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
      2.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the fees to the
city clerk or designee and present the receipt therefor to the person in charge
of the animal shelter or designee before the animal or fowl is released. (Ord.
2013-02, 4-1-2013; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Any dog or cat not vaccinated against rabies, being held or
impounded by the city, shall not be released to the owner or any other person
without proof of current vaccination against rabies or without paying a deposit
in such sum as is set by the council by motion or resolution, which deposit
shall be refunded to the person putting up the same upon proof of current
vaccination being shown to the animal control officer or designee within
seventy two (72) hours of the release of the animal. If such proof is not
presented, then the animal control officer or designee may retake the animal
into custody and deposit the deposit with the city clerk or designee to be
retained as expenses of taking the animal into custody.
      4.   Any person owning an animal and requesting impoundment or disposal
of such animal by the city shall pay a fee for such a service as set by the
council by motion or resolution. Any person receiving such voluntary
impoundment services must sign a waiver divesting themselves of ownership of
the animal concerned. Such voluntary impoundment shall not be considered
abandonment under the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   The owner of an impounded animal shall be responsible for the
payment of all impoundment fees, boarding fees, and any reasonable and
necessary medical expenses incurred during the impoundment of the animal
regardless of whether or not the animal is redeemed by the owner from the
animal shelter.
   F.   Diseased Animals: No dog or cat suffering from rabies or other
infectious or dangerous disease may be released from the animal control shelter
except as may be allowed or required by this code, state laws, or federal laws.
   G.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Breaking Into Pound: If any person breaks open, or in any manner
directly or indirectly aids in, or counsels or advises the breaking open of any
city pound or contract pound, or hinders, delays or obstructs any person duly
authorized in taking up or taking to the city pound any animals liable to be
impounded, he shall be guilty of an offense.
      2.   Interfering With Impoundment Officials: No person shall interfere
with, or hinder, or molest any agent of the city in the performance of any duty
of such agent, or seek to release any animal in the custody of the city or its
agents, except as provided by law. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-7: ANIMAL BITES; RABIES SUSPECTS:
   A.   Animal Bites; Rabies Examination; Quarantine; Report To State:
      1.   Every domesticated animal capable of transmitting rabies that bites
a person shall be reported within four (4) hours to the animal control officer
or designee. If documentation cannot be provided that the biting animal is
currently vaccinated against rabies and that such vaccination was administered
by a licensed veterinarian, then the animal shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at a veterinary hospital for a period of ten (10) days from the
date the person was bitten, and shall not be released from such quarantine
except by permission of the animal control officer or designee and the
veterinary hospital chosen by the owner. If documentation can be provided that
the biting animal is currently vaccinated against rabies and that such
vaccination was administered by a licensed veterinarian, then the animal shall
thereupon be securely quarantined by the animal's owner or keeper. Failure of
the owner or keeper to quarantine his animal within the four (4) hour period
herein will make him guilty of an offense.
      2.   The owner, upon demand by any city officer or animal control
officer, shall surrender any animal that has bitten a human, or which is
suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine testing
or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner, and the
animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
      3.   Every nondomesticated or wild animal capable of transmitting rabies
that bites a person shall be reported within four (4) hours to the animal
control officer or designee. Such animal shall be humanely euthanized, and the
animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately send the head of such
animal to the state health department for pathological examination.
      4.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid,
or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under
such observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately
send the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological
examination and shall notify the public health officer of reports of human
contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   B.   Report Of Bite Cases Required:
      1.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other
practitioner to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals within the city limits, together
with such other information as will be helpful in rabies control.
      2.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
animal control officer his diagnosis of any animal, which dwells within the
city limits, observed by him to be a rabid suspect.
   C.   Disposition Of Rabid Animals Or Suspects:
      1.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a
human, except as herein provided, nor remove the animal from the city limits
without written permission from the health officer of the city or the animal
control officer.
      2.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand,
be surrendered to the animal control officer.
      3.   The animal control officer or designee shall direct the disposition
of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
      4.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an
employee empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an
offense. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-8: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Carrying In A Cruel Manner: Any person who carries or causes to be
carried in or upon any vessel or vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel
or inhumane manner or so as to produce torture is guilty of an offense.
   B.   Abandonment:
      1.   Any person who deposits any live dog, cat, or other domestic animal
along any private or public roadway or in any other private or public place
with the intention of abandoning the domestic animal shall be guilty of an
offense.
      2.   Any person owning or having charge or custody of a maimed, diseased,
disabled, or infirm animal shall be guilty of an offense under any of the
following conditions:
         a.   Abandonment of the animal.
         b.   Knowingly allows the animal to lie, alive or dead, in a public or
private street or road.
         c.   Knowingly allows the animal to lie dead in any public or private
place other than a lawful burial site.
         d.   Knowingly allows the animal to lie in any public or private place
without having the animal under observation by a responsible person to render
aid to the animal should such aid be necessary to alleviate or lessen the
suffering of the animal.
   C.   Poisoning:
      1.   Any person who unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious
drug or substance to any animal, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or
substance with the intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, whether
such animal by the property of himself or another, is guilty of an offense.
      2.   Any person who administers any poisonous or noxious drug or
substance to any animal that is undomesticated, wild, or otherwise not the
property of another, or unjustifiably exposes any such drug or substance with
the intent that the same shall be taken by such animal, is guilty of an
offense, unless the animal in question is a noxious animal.
   D.   Encouraging Fights:
      1.   It shall be an offense for any person to maliciously, or for any
bet, stake, or reward, instigate or encourage any fight between animals, or
instigate or encourage any animal to attack, bite, wound, or worry another.
      2.   It shall be an offense for any person to keep any house, pit, or
other place to be used in permitting any fight between animals.
   E.   Lawful Use Of Force Against Animals:
      1.   To use or attempt to use force upon or toward an animal is not
unlawful in the city in the following cases:
         a.   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance
of any legal duty or by any person assisting him or acting by his direction.
         b.   When necessarily committed by a licensed veterinarian in the
performance of any legal duty or by any person assisting him or acting by his
direction.
         c.   When committed either by the party about to be injured or by any
other person in his aid or defense in preventing or attempting to prevent
injury to his person or property in his lawful possession, provided the force
used is not more than sufficient to prevent such injury, and that the same
shall be necessary for the self-defense of his person or property. It is not an
affirmative defense if the party about to be injured is currently committing or
attempting to commit an offense, tort, unlawful trespass, or other unlawful
action against any person or property on public or private land.
      2.   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that
degree necessary to effect such purpose shall be used. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-9: EUTHANIZATION OF DEADLY ANIMALS:
Any animal that can be shown to have attacked a person, and through such
attack, to have caused the death of such person, shall be immediately
confiscated and taken by the animal control officer or designee to be humanely
euthanized, the cost of which shall be borne by the owner of the animal, with
the following exceptions:
   A.   Such animal was one used by law enforcement officials in the lawful
commission of its duty at the time that it caused the death; or
   B.   Such animal caused the death of a person who, at the time, was
committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the
owner of the animal, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. (Ord.
2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-10: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The animal control officer is responsible for the primary enforcement of the
animal protection and control provisions of this chapter and shall work under
the direction of the police chief and shall have such arrest powers as
necessary to carry out the duties of such provisions. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-11: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, the animal control officer, health officer or any
police officer is empowered to call upon the residents of any premises upon
which a dog or cat or small animal is kept or harbored, and to demand
exhibition by the owner of such dog or cat or small animal.
   B.   The animal control officer, health officer or any police officer, in
the manner authorized by law, may enter the premises where any animal is kept
in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal, and
to take possession of such animal when, in the officer's opinion, it requires
humane treatment. The officer may demand, at the front door of any residence,
exhibition by the owner of current animal licenses at any time. (Ord. 2013-02,
4-1-2013)
6-4-12: RECORDS KEPT:
The animal control officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
   A.   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all animals coming into his custody; and
   B.   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the city,
with a complete report of the investigation of each case. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-
2013)
6-4-13: COURT PROCEDURES AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Summons And Complaint:
      1.   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or
acts made unlawful by this chapter have been committed may sign a complaint
against the alleged violator.
      2.   Any police officer, animal control officer, or code enforcement
officer who is employed by the city is authorized to issue a summons and
complaint when the officer personally observes a violation of this chapter.
      3.   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer
receiving the complaint containing the following information:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident;
         b.   Date, time and location of the incident;
         c.   Description of the animal;
         d.   Name, address and telephone number (if known) of the animal
owner;
         e.   If alleging an aggressive, potentially dangerous, or dangerous
dog, a statement that the dog attacked the complainant or some other person or
animal as witnessed by the complainant, or such facts as warrant a finding that
the dog is aggressive, potentially dangerous, or dangerous; and
         f.   Other facts and circumstances of the incident.
   B.   Impoundment: It is the duty of the animal control officer, upon receipt
of a verified complaint as outlined in this section, to cause the animal
involved to be impounded pending a determination as required in this section.
Any and all expenses associated with the impounding, including shelter, food,
handling and veterinary care, shall be borne by the owner of the animal during
the period of impoundment.
   C.   Determination: On violations of this chapter, the judge may take
whatever action deemed necessary within the limits of the law including, but
not limited to, fine or other penalty. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
6-4-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-02, 4-1-2013)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. PETS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Licensing And Registration
6-4A-2: Kennels And Pet Shops
6-4A-3: Nuisance Dogs And Other Animals
6-4A-4: Transfer Of Ownership; Lost, Stolen Or Deceased Dogs Or Cats
6-4A-5: Limitation On Number Of Dogs And Cats
6-4A-6: Aggressive, Dangerous Dogs
6-4A-7: Responsibilities Of Owner
6-4A-8: Violation
6-4A-1: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION:
   A.   License Required; Exemptions: No person, without first obtaining a
written license from the Police Department or designee, shall own, keep, harbor
or have custody of any dog or cat over six (6) months of age. No license shall
be required for animals temporarily brought and kept within the City or as
service dogs, when the dogs are actually used to aid persons with disabilities.
   B.   Rabies Vaccination Required: Licenses shall be issued only upon
presentation of proof of current vaccination for rabies, as required by this
chapter.
   C.   Registration Of Dogs And Cats: The owner of the dog or cat shall, at
the time of paying the license fee, register the dog or cat by providing the
name and address of the owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or
cat, type of vaccine and duration of immunity, signature of the veterinarian or
other authorized person administering the vaccination and other reasonable
information as the Police Department or designee may request.
   D.   Tags:
      1.   The Police Department or designee shall deliver an appropriate tag
for the dog or cat, in addition to the written receipt. The tag shall
constitute the license.
      2.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Police Department or
designee to be affixed to the collar or harness of the dog or cat upon which
the license fee has been paid, and the owner shall see that the tag is so worn
at all times.
      3.   Dog or cat license tags shall not be transferable from one dog or
cat to another, and no refunds shall be made for any dog or cat license fee
because of the death of the dog or cat or the owner's departure from the City.
      4.   No person shall counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit any tag issued
for a dog or cat, as provided in this subsection.
      5.   In the event of loss of the tag before the end of the year for which
it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog or cat by presenting
the original receipt and the fee established by the City Council to the Police
Department or designee.
      6.   As an alternative to a metallic or plastic license tag, a dog or cat
may be implanted with an identifying subcutaneous microchip by a licensed
veterinarian. The microchip identification number shall be recorded with the
description and picture of the dog or cat at the time of application with the
Police Department or designee. The microchip identification number shall be
recorded as the dog or cat's City identification number so long as such number
is not a duplicate of a City identification number already issued to another
dog or cat. License tags shall not be required for dogs or cats with properly
registered microchip implants.
   E.   License Fee:
      1.   A fee established by the City Council for every male or female dog
or cat more than six (6) months of age is hereby imposed upon the owner of any
dog or cat kept or harbored within the City.
      2.   All license fees shall be paid to the Police Department or designee
and shall be due not later than July 1 of each year, or within one week after
bringing an animal into the City after the date.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   The registration fee shall be waived on any dog or cat fitting the
following criteria:
         a.   Any dog or cat used primarily as a service animal, or currently
in training as a service animal, when the owner or keeper establishes the
service animal's function as an assistance animal under the Americans With
Disabilities Act, 42 USC 12101 et seq.
         b.   Any dog used by a public agency or a private organization under
contract with a public agency as a police dog, tracking dog, search and rescue
dog, arson or drug sniffing dog, or for any other job that furthers the mission
of the agency to protect and serve the public interest.
      2.   The requirement of the annual registration under this section shall
be waived for any dog or cat which is with its rightful owner who is a
nonresident or traveler through the City. The waiver of this requirement shall
not exceed a period of thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-
2019)
6-4A-2: KENNELS AND PET SHOPS:
   A.   Kennels: No person, firm or corporation shall own, maintain or operate
a kennel within the corporate limits of the City.
   B.   Pet Shops: Pet shops shall be annually licensed by the City. A fee
established by the City Council due on July 1st of each year of operation shall
be paid to the Police Department or designee. The pet shop shall at all times
be kept in a safe and sanitary condition and the animals therein kept in a
humane condition, subject to City inspection at any time during normal business
hours. In addition, any other requirements of this chapter or of the City
zoning ordinances which may involve specific animals sold in a pet shop shall
also be included in these regulations applicable to pet shops. (Ord. 2019-02,
4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
6-4A-3: NUISANCE DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated:
      1.   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of or creates a nuisance for any person or persons.
      2.   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   B.   Abatement: Abatement of the public nuisance shall be handled in
accordance with the provisions of section
 5-3-8, "Abatement Of Nuisances Generally", of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-
2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
6-4A-4: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; LOST, STOLEN OR DECEASED DOGS OR CATS:
   A.   If ownership of any dog or cat registered with the City is transferred
to any other person or entity, the current owner of record shall notify the
City of such transfer, and the new owner, if keeping or maintaining the dog or
cat within the City limits, shall register the animal with the Police
Department or designee and pay the registration fee.
   B.   If any dog or cat registered with the City is lost, stolen, deceased or
otherwise removed from the City the current owner of record must notify the
City of such status within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-
15-2019)
6-4A-5: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
No household shall keep or maintain more than four (4) dogs, cats, or any
combination of dogs and cats within the City limits. Dogs and cats that are
exempt from registration under subsection
6-4A-1F1 of this article shall not be counted toward the total limit required
by this section. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
6-4A-6: AGGRESSIVE, DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Possession Of Aggressive Dog:
      1.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to possess any
aggressive dog within the City limits, except under those conditions allowed by
this subsection.
      2.   Any animal found to be aggressive under this section shall only be
possessed by the owner upon the owner's compliance with the following
conditions:
         a.   The dog must be kept indoors or within a fence or enclosure of
sufficient height, strength, and repair to safely contain such dog on the
premises and prevent children from entering the yard or enclosure. Sufficiency
shall be determined by the size of the dog.
         b.   If the dog is not within the prescribed enclosure, said dog must
be on a leash of not more than six feet (6') in length and not an extension
style leash. Such leash shall not be attached to an inanimate object and must
be held by a competent person.
      3.   Any owner of an aggressive dog who meets the requirements for the
lawful keeping of an aggressive dog, as outlined in this subsection A, shall be
required to register said aggressive dog with the City for an annual fee, if
any, to be set by motion or resolution of the City Council.
      4.   Any aggressive dog shall be immediately confiscated by the Police
Department or designee if:
         a.   The dog is not validly registered as required by this article.
         b.   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure as outlined in
this subsection A.
         c.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the
proper enclosure, and not under physical restraint of the responsible person as
required by this subsection A.
   B.   Possession Of Potentially Dangerous Dog:
      1.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to possess any
potentially dangerous dog within the City limits, except under those conditions
allowed by this section.
      2.   Any dog found to be potentially dangerous under this section shall
only be possessed by the owner upon the owner's compliance with the following
conditions:
         a.   The dog must be kept indoors or in a fence or enclosure of
sufficient height, strength, and repair to safely contain such dog on the
premises and prevent children from entering the yard or enclosure. Sufficiency
shall be determined by the size of the dog.
         b.   The premises upon which the dog is kept must have a clearly
visible sign warning of the presence of the dog.
         c.   If the dog is not within the prescribed enclosure, said dog must
be on a leash of not more than six feet (6') in length and not an extension
style leash. Such leash shall not be attached to an inanimate object and must
be held by a competent person. In addition, said dog must wear a "muzzle" as
defined by section
6-4-1 of this chapter.
      3.   Any owner of a potentially dangerous dog who meets the requirements
for the lawful keeping of a potentially dangerous dog, as outlined in this
subsection B, shall be required to register said potentially dangerous dog with
the City for an annual fee, if any, to be set by motion or resolution of the
City Council.
      4.   Any potentially dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by
the Police Department or designee if:
         a.   The dog is not validly registered as required by this article.
         b.   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure as outlined in
this subsection B.
         c.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the
proper enclosure, and not under physical restraint of the responsible person as
required by this subsection B.
   C.   Possession Of Dangerous Dog:
      1.   It is unlawful and an offense, punishable by up to the maximum fine
as allowed by State law without a jury trial, for any person to possess any
dangerous dog within the City limits, except under those conditions allowed by
this section.
      2.   Any dog found to be dangerous under this section shall only be
possessed by the owner upon the owner's compliance with the following
conditions:
         a.   While on the owner's property, any dangerous dog shall be
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure
with at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of space for each dog kept
therein which is over six (6) months of age, and which is suitable to prevent
the entry of children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such
pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top and shall also
provide protection from the elements for the dog.
         b.   The premises upon which any dangerous dog is kept must be posted
with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a
warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog.
         c.   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowner's insurance,
or surety bond, issued by an insurer qualified under Oklahoma Statutes in the
amount of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog.
         d.   If the dangerous dog is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and remain under
the physical restraint of a responsible person over sixteen (16) years of age.
      3.   Any owner of a dangerous dog who meets the requirements for the
lawful keeping of a dangerous dog, as outlined in this subsection C, shall be
issued a certificate of registration for said dangerous dog for an annual fee,
if any, to be set by motion or resolution of the City Council, but not to
exceed ten dollars ($10.00).
      4.   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by the Police
Department or designee if:
         a.   The dog is not validly registered as required by this article.
         b.   The owner does not secure and maintain the liability insurance
coverage or surety bond required by this subsection C.
         c.   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure as outlined in
this subsection C.
         d.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the
proper enclosure, and not under physical restraint of the responsible person as
required by this subsection C.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   A dog shall not be declared aggressive, potentially dangerous, or
dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person who, at
the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
dog or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      2.   A dog shall not be declared aggressive, potentially dangerous, or
dangerous if such dog is one used by law enforcement officials for police work
and inflicts threat, injury, or damage during the commission of its lawful
duty. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
6-4A-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER:
The owner of record, as registered with the City, shall be held responsible for
any fines or damages incurred by a dog or cat found in violation of any
provision of this article or any other provision contained in this Code. (Ord.
2019-02, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
6-4A-8: VIOLATION:
It is unlawful and an offense to keep or own any dog or cat within the City
limits without first complying with the vaccination, licensing and limitation
on the number of animals requirements of this article. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-15-
2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-5-2: Conspiracy To Commit An Offense
6-5-3: Capacity To Commit An Offense
6-5-4: Lawful Use Of Force
6-5-5: Voluntary Intoxication No Defense
6-5-6: Witness, Self-Incrimination
6-5-7: Time Limit On Actions
6-5-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is
punishable, where no other provision is made by law for the punishment, as
provided in 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 42. (1997 Code § 10-101; amd. 2014
Code)
6-5-2: CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
If two (2) or more persons conspire, either:
   A.   To commit any crime; or
   B.   Falsely and maliciously to indict another for any crime, or to procure
another to be charged or arrested for any crime; or
   C.   Falsely to move or maintain any suit, action or proceeding; or
   D.   To cheat and defraud any person of any property by any means which are
in themselves criminal, or by any means which, if executed, would amount to a
cheat or to obtaining money or property by false pretenses; or
   E.   To commit any act injurious to the public health, to public morals, or
to trade or commerce, or for the perversion or obstruction of justice or the
due administration of the laws;
they are guilty of a conspiracy. (1997 Code § 10-110; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5-3: CAPACITY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
All persons are capable of committing an offense as herein provided, except
those belonging to the following classes:
   A.   Children under the age of seven (7) years;
   B.   Children over the age of seven (7) years, but under the age of fourteen
(14) years, in the absence of proof that at the time of committing the act or
neglect charged against them, they knew its wrongfulness;
   C.   Persons who are impaired by reason of mental retardation upon proof
that, at the time of committing the act charged against them, they were
incapable of knowing its wrongfulness;
   D.   Mentally ill persons, and all persons of unsound mind, including
persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason, upon proof that, at the
time of committing the act charged against them, they were incapable of knowing
its wrongfulness;
   E.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, under an
ignorance or mistake of fact which disproves any criminal intent; but ignorance
of the law does not excuse from punishment for its violation;
   F.   Persons who committed the act charged without being conscious thereof;
and
   G.   Persons who committed the act, or made the omission charged, while
under involuntary subjection to the power of superiors. (1997 Code § 10-106;
amd. 2014 Code)
6-5-4: LAWFUL USE OF FORCE:
   A.   To use or to attempt to offer to use force upon or toward the person of
another is not unlawful in the city in the following cases:
      1.   When necessarily committed by a public officer in the performance of
any legal duty, or by any other person assisting him or acting by his
direction;
      2.   When necessarily committed by any person in arresting one who has
committed any felony, and delivering him to a public officer competent to
receive him in custody; (1997 Code § 10-112)
      3.   When committed either by the party about to be injured, or by any
other person in his aid or defense, in preventing or attempting to prevent an
offense against his person, or any trespass or other unlawful interference with
real or personal property in his lawful possession; provided, the force used is
not more than sufficient to prevent such offense; (1997 Code § 10-112; amd.
2014 Code)
      4.   When committed by a parent or authorized agent of any parent, or by
any guardian, master or teacher, in the exercise of a lawful authority to
restrain or correct his child, ward, apprentice or scholar, provided restraint
or correction has been rendered necessary by the misconduct of such child,
ward, apprentice or scholar, or by his refusal to obey the lawful command of
such parent or authorized agent or guardian, master or teacher, and the force
used is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree;
      5.   When committed by a carrier of passengers, or the authorized agents
or servants of such carrier, or by any person assisting them at their request,
in expelling from any carriage, interurban car, vessel or other vehicle, any
passenger who refuses to obey a lawful and reasonable regulation prescribed for
the conduct of passengers, if such vehicle has first been stopped and the force
used is not more than is sufficient to expel the offending passenger, with a
reasonable regard to his personal safety; (1997 Code § 10-112)
      6.   When committed by any person in preventing a person who is impaired
by reason of "mental retardation" or "developmental disability" as defined by
state law, a mentally ill person, insane person or other person of unsound
mind, including persons temporarily or partially deprived of reason from
committing an act dangerous to himself or to another, or enforcing such
restraint as is necessary for the protection of his person or for his
restoration to health, during such period only as shall be necessary to obtain
legal authority for the restraint or custody of such person; (1997 Code § 10-
112; amd. 2014 Code)
      7.   In preventing or interrupting an intrusion upon the lawful
possession of property; and
      8.   To preserve the peace or prevent the commission of an offense.
   B.   Where force is permitted to effect a lawful purpose, only that degree
of force necessary to effect such purpose shall be used. (1997 Code § 10-112)
6-5-5: VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION NO DEFENSE:
No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from liquor or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by reason of his
being in such condition. (1997 Code § 10-107; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5-6: WITNESS, SELF-INCRIMINATION:
No person shall be excused from giving evidence upon any investigation or
prosecution for any of the offenses specified in any section, chapter or title
of this code, or any ordinances hereafter enacted, upon the grounds that such
testimony or evidence might tend to convict him of a crime; but such answer or
evidence shall not be received against him upon any criminal proceeding or
prosecution, except in a prosecution against him for perjury committed in
giving such testimony. (1997 Code § 10-108; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5-7: TIME LIMIT ON ACTIONS:
The time within which a charge may be filed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be one year from the date of the commission or omission or in
cases involving fraud, deception or deceit, one year from the discovery of the
fraud, deception or deceit unless otherwise provided by the statutes of the
state. (1997 Code § 10-111)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE AND PERSONS
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Assault And Battery
6-5A-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-5A-3: Disturbing Funerals
6-5A-4: Disorderly Conduct
6-5A-5: Noisy Conditions
6-5A-6: Weapons Control
6-5A-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
   ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another. (1997 Code §§ 10-202, 10-203)
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall commit an assault or battery, or both,
upon the person of another. (1997 Code § 10-201)
6-5A-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Definition: Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following
in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or
others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Holding an unlawful assembly of three (3) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      5.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise; by rude,
indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      6.   Obstructing the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles on a street,
right of way or sidewalk, or other public place;
      7.   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully in a
public place;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by
profane, improper or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner calculated as to
unreasonably disturb, interfere or alarm the public or the comfort and repose
of any person. (1997 Code § 10-401; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or
others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Enforcement: Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of
reasonable judgment, decide that the presence of any person in any public place
is causing any of the conditions enumerated in subsection A of this section, he
may, if he deems it necessary for the preservation of the public peace and
safety, order that person to leave that place; and anyone who shall refuse to
leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   D.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to peaceful picketing, public
speaking or other lawful expressions of opinion not in contravention of other
laws. (1997 Code § 10-401)
6-5A-3: DISTURBING FUNERALS:
No person shall wilfully disturb, interrupt or disquiet any assemblage of
people who have met for the purpose of any funeral, or obstruct or detain any
person engaged in accompanying any funeral to a place of burial. (1997 Code §
10-402)
6-5A-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly creating the risk thereof
he:
   A.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health;
   B.   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   C.   Endangers the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats and abusive conduct;
   D.   Jostles or crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
   E.   Uses "fighting words" directed toward any person and thus creates a
turmoil;
   F.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another; or
   G.   By acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation. (1997 Code § 10-403)
6-5A-5: NOISY CONDITIONS:
No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any excessive,
unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others,
within the limits of the city. (1997 Code § 10-404)
6-5A-6: WEAPONS CONTROL:
   A.   Possession Of Certain Weapons Prohibited; Exemptions: It is unlawful
for any person to carry upon or about his person, or in his portfolio or purse,
any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife,
spring type knife, sword cane, knife having a blade which opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, blackjack, loaded cane, billy, hand chain, metal knuckles, or any
other offensive weapon, except as otherwise provided by law. This section shall
not prohibit the proper use of guns and knives for hunting, fishing or
recreational purposes, nor shall this section be construed to prohibit any use
of weapons in a manner otherwise permitted by law.
   B.   Concealed Weapons: It is unlawful for any person, except a law
enforcement officer, a registered security officer or a person employed by an
armored car firm licensed by the state corporation commission, to carry a
concealed weapon other than permitted by law. (1997 Code § 10-406; amd. 2014
Code)
   C.   Discharge Of Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to discharge a
firearm, air rifle, BB gun or pellet gun, except when doing so in the line of
duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of another person or of
property, or when doing so during competition in or practicing skeet, trap or
other recognized and controlled sporting events, and when doing so in such
sporting event does not create unreasonable risk of harm to another and which
does not demonstrate a conscious disregard for the safety of another person, or
when otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. (1997 Code § 10-406)
   D.   Reckless Conduct While In Possession Of Weapons:
      1.   Definition: Reckless conduct, as used in this subsection D, consists
of an act which creates a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of
death or great bodily harm to another and which demonstrates a conscious
disregard for the safety of another.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to endanger another's
safety by reckless conduct in the operation or handling of any weapon or
instrument, including a pistol, revolver or other firearm. (1997 Code § 10-204)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Theft And Related Offenses
6-5B-2: Harmful Deception
6-5B-3: Damage To Property
6-5B-4: Taking Or Tampering With Vehicles
6-5B-5: Tampering With Or Damaging Utilities
6-5B-6: Trespassing And Related Offenses
6-5B-7: Throwing Or Shooting Objects
6-5B-8: Throwing Lighted Materials
6-5B-9: Littering; Unlawful Deposits
6-5B-10: Posting Advertisements
6-5B-11: Interference With Wireless Reception
6-5B-12: Electric Fences
6-5B-13: Fireworks
6-5B-14: Nuisance Conditions
6-5B-1: THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Petit Larceny; Embezzlement: No person shall steal, take and carry away
by fraud or stealth, with intent to deprive another thereof, any personal
property under the value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or embezzle any
money, personal property or effects of another under the value of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). This subsection does not apply to taking property from the
"person" of another. (1997 Code § 10-301; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Larceny By False Pretense: No person shall induce, or attempt to
induce, any person to give up or pay over any money or other thing of value,
which money or value does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), by any
false representation or pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or
check, draft or other false evidence of value, or in consideration of
refraining from a lawful or unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining
from reporting any unlawful act to any public official. (1997 Code § 10-302;
amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Altering Keys: No person shall make or alter, or attempt to make or
alter, any key or other instrument that will open the lock of a building unless
requested to do so by some person having the right and authority to make such
request. (1997 Code § 10-303)
   D.   Defrauding Public Accommodations:
      1.   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation in any
hotel; motel; inn; boarding, eating or rooming house or place; or any other
lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper, when the value
is five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less. (1997 Code § 10-305; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused or that
the person left the hotel; motel; inn; boarding, eating or rooming house or
place; or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the food,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
      3.   This subsection D shall not apply where there has been an agreement
in writing for delay in payment. (1997 Code § 10-305)
   E.   Failure To Pay Conveyance Fare:
      1.   No person shall use or accept the use and services of any streetcar,
taxicab, omnibus, automobile or any other means of public conveyance or
passengers, operating under this code or any ordinance, franchise, permit or
license of the city or state, and refuse or fail to pay to the operator of the
conveyance the usual, customary, regulation or legal charge, or price as fare
immediately upon the performance of the service. (1997 Code § 10-307)
      2.   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles
mentioned in this subsection E after having hired the same, and no person shall
hire any vehicle with intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the
value of such service.
      3.   This subsection E shall not apply where there has been an agreement
in writing for delay in payment. (1997 Code § 10-305)
   F.   Shoplifting: Any person concealing unpurchased merchandise of any
establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of the
establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed the merchandise with the
intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise. Such concealment
or the finding of such unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or
among the belongings of such person shall be conclusive evidence of reasonable
grounds and probable cause for the detention in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time of such person by a merchant, or his agent or
employee. Any such reasonable detention shall not be deemed to be unlawful nor
render any such merchant, or his agent or employee, criminally or civilly
liable. (1997 Code § 10-306)
   G.   False Or Bogus Checks:
      1.   The term "false or bogus check or checks", when used in this
section, shall include checks or orders, including those converted to
electronic fund transfer, which are not honored on account of insufficient
funds of the maker to pay same or because the check or order was drawn on a
closed account or on a nonexistent account when such checks or orders are
given:
         a.   In exchange for money or property;
         b.   In exchange for any benefit or thing of value; or
         c.   As a down payment for the purchase of any item of which the
purchaser is taking immediate possession, as against the maker or drawer
thereof.
      2.   The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest
fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for payment; and
provided further, that said check or order is presented for payment within
thirty (30) days after same is delivered and accepted.
      3.   A check offered for the purchase of goods or livestock that is
refused by a drawee shall not be considered to be an extension of credit by the
seller of goods or livestock to the maker or drawer of the check.
      4.   A check or order offered to a merchant in payment on an open account
of the maker with the merchant shall mean "a check or order given in exchange
for a benefit or thing of value", notwithstanding that the merchant may debit
the account of the maker or impose other charges pursuant to applicable law in
the event the check or order is not honored. (1997 Code § 10-308; amd. 2014
Code)
   H.   False Weights: It is unlawful for any person to sell any commodity or
article of merchandise and in the sale thereof knowingly make or give a false
or short weight therefor or for any person owning or keeping or having in his
charge any scale used in weighing any animal, commodity or article to knowingly
and wilfully report any false or untrue weight whereby another person shall be
defrauded or damaged. (1997 Code § 10-326)
6-5B-2: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1997 Code § 10-309)
6-5B-3: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Generally:
      1.   No person shall purposely deface or damage any public or private
building or appurtenances thereof, or any fence, street, bridge, sidewalk,
driveway, or public work.
      2.   No person shall:
         a.   Destroy, injure, deface, damage or molest any structure,
building, work or other property, real or personal, belonging to another;
         b.   Use such property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or
other person entitled to its use; or
         c.   Interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use. (1997 Code § 10-310)
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall wilfully, unlawfully or maliciously take and carry,
or cause to be taken and carried, away any part of a house, barn, fence, gate
or other structure, or maliciously break, tear down or destroy any part of a
house, barn or other structure not his own. (1997 Code § 10-311)
      2.   No person shall wilfully and wantonly damage or destroy the personal
property of another. (1997 Code § 10-312)
   C.   Destroying Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   Private Property: No person shall wilfully, maliciously and without
lawful authority cut down, uproot, sever, injure or destroy any fruit tree,
shade or ornamental tree, cultivated root or plant, grape or strawberry vine,
shrub or plant whatsoever standing on or attached to the land of another, or
pick, destroy, carry away therefrom, or in any way interfere therewith any of
the fruit thereof.
      2.   Public Property: No person shall wilfully or without lawful
authority cut down, destroy, uproot or in any manner injure any fruit, shade or
ornamental tree, shrub or vine planted or growing on any street, land, avenue,
alley or other public ground of the city. (1997 Code § 10-316)
   D.   Property Damage Exceeding One Thousand Dollars: If the property damage
exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), enforcement is through the district
court. (2014 Code)
6-5B-4: TAKING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLES:
   A.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, with intent and without right to do so, injure or
tamper with any vehicle or in any other manner damage any part or portion of
the vehicle or any accessories, appurtenances or attachments thereto.
   B.   No person, other than a peace officer in the performance of his
official duties, shall, without right to do so and with intent to commit a
crime, climb into or upon a vehicle, whether it is in motion or at rest,
attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting mechanism, brakes or other
mechanism or device of the vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended,
or set in motion any vehicle while the vehicle is at rest and unattended. (1997
Code § 10-314)
6-5B-5: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING UTILITIES:
   A.   Wires, Pipes And Poles: No person shall alter, remove, tamper with,
molest, damage or injure any wires, cable, appurtenance, structure, pipes or
equipment of any utility of the city, or any public utility, or connect or
tamper with the wires, cables or pipes of any electric, water, sewer, cable
television or gas utility or of the city without consent of the utility or city
having been first obtained.
   B.   Manholes: It is unlawful to open up any manhole or opening to a sewer
unless authorized by the city, or to leave a manhole or other opening so opened
without replacing the fixture or appliances thereto in their proper place and
position.
   C.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   No person, except a member of the fire department or a person acting
on lawful order or permit issued by the city, shall open or use water from any
fire hydrant or take off the caps or damage the same.
      2.   No person may block the approach or access to a fire hydrant or
attach, fasten, stand or brace anything against or on the hydrant.
   D.   Intercepting Service:
      1.   No person shall, in any manner whatsoever:
         a.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes of
any electric, water, cable television or gas utility or of the city for the
purpose of fraudulently taking therefrom electric current, water,
transmissions, or gas;
         b.   Cut into, attach to or intercept the wires, cables or pipes for
the purpose of conducting around any meter electric current, water or gas in
order to prevent the current, water or gas from being measured by the meter, or
in such other manner so as to consume or use the utility or cable service so as
to evade payment therefor, with the unlawful intent to defraud the company or
city of the value of the service; or
         c.   By any device or manipulation whatsoever to cause current,
transmissions, water or gas used upon any premises to be fraudulently conveyed
upon any premises for the purposes of use thereof, and with the intent to
defraud and cheat the utility or city from payment thereof.
      2.   Each day that any person maintains any such fraudulent connection
with any wires, cables or pipes, or fraudulently takes from any such wires,
cables or pipes either electric current, transmissions, water or gas shall
constitute a separate offense. (1997 Code § 10-315)
6-5B-6: TRESPASSING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Trespassing:
      1.   Definition: Trespass shall include each and every actual entry upon
the premises of an owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises
without the express consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
Trespass shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner or other person in lawful
possession of the premises. Trespass shall also mean the act of entering upon
or remaining on private property when such is plainly forbidden by signs,
markings, or otherwise, by verbal command of the owner, his agent, or employee,
or after having been directed to do so by a police officer, although this
sentence shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon
the premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of
such premises. Trespass shall also include the act of returning to private
property after having been directed to vacate the premises by the owner, his
agent or employee, or police officer under the terms of this subsection A.
      2.   Prohibition: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to commit
a trespass within the city upon either public or private property.
      3.   Violations:
         a.   Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed a
violation of this subsection A:
            (1)   The doing of an injury or misfeasance to the person of
another;
            (2)   The doing of any injury or misfeasance to the property of
another when done with force and violence, either actual or implied;
            (3)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
person in possession of real property, whether the property is public or
private, without the owner's or occupant's consent, express or implied;
            (4)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of a notice exhibited thereon prohibiting entry at specified
times;
            (5)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
any owner or other lawful occupant thereof;
            (6)   An entry upon any public property, including parks or parking
areas, in violation of a notice exhibited prohibiting entry at specified times;
            (7)   An entry upon any public property in violation of any notice,
warning or protest given orally or in writing by a city official;
            (8)   If, on the property of another or upon public property
lawfully, a failure or refusal to depart in case of being requested to so
depart orally or written, by any owner, lawful occupant, or by a city official;
            (9)   An entry upon any portion of a public park where the entry
involves the use of any vehicle, equipment or device where such use is
specifically prohibited;
            (10)   An entry of any public building except for the purpose of
dispatching business with the public corporation or consent is obtained from
the city council or other public official which is lawfully authorized to give
consent; or
            (11)   Remaining on public or private property at any time other
than during posted hours of business operation after having been directed to
vacate such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such
premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such
premises; nor shall the provisions of this subsection apply unless hours of
business operation are posted upon such premises. Trespass also includes the
act of returning to private property before the posted time of opening for
business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this subsection.
         b.   For purposes of constituting a violation of this subsection A,
the exhibited notice required under subsections A3a(4), A3a(5), A3a(6), A3a(7)
and A3a(9) of this section shall meet the following criteria:
            (1)   The notice shall be plainly posted in a place or places
conspicuous to those who would enter the property;
            (2)   The notice shall be legible so as to afford reasonable
warning prior to the commission of a trespass; and
            (3)   If upon property to which the public is invited at least some
part of the day, the notice shall clearly specify the days and times of day
entry is prohibited, and further specify that entry at such times constitutes a
punishable offense under this code. (1997 Code § 10-317)
   B.   Intrusion On Land Or Structures:
      1.   No person shall intrude or remain upon any lot or piece of land or
in any building within the city without license or authority from the owner
thereof, or erect or occupy thereon any structure whatever without such license
or authority.
      2.   No person shall place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the city any structure whatsoever unless such person
is granted a license by the city to do so. (1997 Code § 10-319)
   C.   Congregating, Parking On Premises:
      1.   Definitions: When used in this subsection C, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
   AFTER BUSINESS HOURS: The doors of the business which are open to the public
during business hours are closed and locked, and the business is no longer
admitting customers. The term applies to places of business which are vacant or
permanently or temporarily closed or otherwise unoccupied.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any private property upon which a building, house or
other structure is used for commercial or public purposes, e.g., without
limitation, restaurants, gas stations, shopping malls or centers, theaters,
convenience stores, grocery stores, drugstores or pharmacies, recreational
facilities, wholesale or retail sales activities, offices, banks or other
financial institutions, manufacturing, and professional services (medical,
legal, accounting, insurance, consulting).
      2.   Prohibitions:
         a.   No person shall stand, walk, sit, lie, congregate or otherwise
occupy or remain upon the premises of any place or business within the city
after business hours without consent of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or
employee thereof.
         b.   No person shall stop, stand, park, leave, or place any motor
vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any public or private property without
the consent of the owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof, except where
such property is provided for public parking and the use for such parking is
not restricted by proper notice. In addition to fine or other punishment for a
violation of this subsection, the vehicle so parked, left or placed shall be
subject to impoundment upon complaint of the property owner or lawful occupant.
The person violating this subsection shall be wholly responsible for payment of
towage and storage charges.
      3.   Sign Posted: No person may be charged under this subsection C unless
the premises in question is posted with a conspicuous sign which states,
substantially, that the premises is posted, and that any person congregating,
occupying or remaining upon the premises or parking or leaving a motor vehicle
thereon is subject to prosecution pursuant to this code.
      4.   Presumption: There is a rebuttable presumption that any person or
motor vehicle upon the premises of a place of business that is properly posted
pursuant to this subsection C after such time as the front door or other such
door that admits members of the public is closed and locked is on the premises
of such business unlawfully under this subsection C; however, this presumption
shall not be applied within thirty (30) minutes of any opening or closing times
posted by such place of business. This presumption may only be rebutted by
proof beyond a reasonable doubt that any person held by the municipal judge to
be subject to this rebuttable presumption was on the premises in question with
permission of the lawful owner, occupant, lessee or employee thereof.
      5.   Prima Facie Proof: If a motor vehicle is alleged to be unlawfully
parked or left under this subsection C, it shall be rebuttably presumed that
the person in whose name the motor vehicle was last registered was the person
who parked or left the motor vehicle.
      6.   Violation; Penalty:
         a.   The parking or leaving of a motor vehicle as set forth herein
shall constitute the offense of unlawful parking or leaving a motor vehicle
after business hours, punishable as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code.
         b.   If a person violates subsection C2a of this section, it shall
constitute the offense of unlawful presence on property after business hours or
congregating after business hours and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      7.   Provisions Cumulative: The provisions of this subsection C are
cumulative of other applicable offenses enacted in this code or state law.
(1997 Code § 10-318)
   D.   Sleeping On Public Or Private Property: It is unlawful for any person,
without lawful reason, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on
any property of another without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place. (1997 Code § 10-515; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5B-7: THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS:
No person shall throw or shoot any object in any place where he is likely to
hit another person wrongfully, or injure property. (1997 Code § 10-320; amd.
2014 Code)
6-5B-8: THROWING LIGHTED MATERIALS:
No person shall throw, drop, deposit or otherwise place in, upon or within the
limits of any street, avenue, public ground, public waterway or city owned
property or waterway any lighted cigarette, cigar or other flaming or glowing
substances, or any substance or thing which may cause a fire. (1997 Code § 10-
321)
6-5B-9: LITTERING; UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
It is unlawful to throw, deposit or discharge any item or waste material,
liquid or solid, on any street or public place in the city or upon the property
of another without express authority to do so. (1997 Code § 10-322)
6-5B-10: POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   No person shall place upon any building any advertising matter of any
kind, nor print or exhibit printing on a building or any part thereof, in
words, signs or characters, except with the express consent of the owner,
lessee or authorized agent of the owner of the building.
   B.   No person shall place, post, paint, mark, write, print or put any sign,
poster, picture, announcement, writing, device, advertisement or other marking
upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, post, automobile
or vehicle or property of another without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof. (1997 Code § 10-323)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to place any advertising matter of any
kind on any utility pole, or to place any advertising on the streets or
sidewalks of the city, or to place any advertising on any signs or banners
stretched over the streets or sidewalks of the city. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent any permanently located commercial or business
establishment in the city from erecting and maintaining business or commercial
signs in accordance with the ordinances of the city, nor to prohibit the
granting of permission by the city to religious, charitable, patriotic or civic
bodies to use banners across the streets of the city in such places as may be
designated by the mayor for the observance of holidays, charitable drives and
the commemoration and celebration of other public or civic occasions. (1997
Code § 10-324)
6-5B-11: INTERFERENCE WITH WIRELESS RECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person, or any officer or employee of any person, to
operate or use any citizen band radio, ham radio or other electrical apparatus
or machine which materially and unduly interferes with radio, television or
telephone reception of others. (1997 Code § 10-325)
6-5B-12: ELECTRIC FENCES:
It is unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain any electrically
charged fence within the city; except, that the building official may issue a
permit for an electrically charged fence to retain animals upon proof that the
fence will not be hazardous to life and upon proof that the electric charge is
regulated by a controlling device. (1997 Code § 10-327)
6-5B-13: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the
same meaning as in state law, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1621 et seq.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   The discharge, firing or use of fireworks is prohibited except when
authorized by the city council in city parks when the same is supervised by a
city official or when authorized by the mayor for public display or displays in
accordance with the city fire code.
      2.   The sale, purchase, possession, discharge, firing or use of
fireworks is prohibited except as authorized by this section. (1997 Code § 10-
329)
6-5B-14: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit, maintain, aid, abet, or
sanction a nuisance on or about any premises or premises owned by him or under
his control at any place within the corporate limits of the city. (1997 Code §
10-109)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY AND MORALITY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: False Representation Of Physical Disabilities
6-5C-2: False Representation Of Age
6-5C-3: Window Peeping
6-5C-4: Obscene, Threatening, Harassing Communications
6-5C-5: Disorderly House
6-5C-6: Gambling And Related Offenses
6-5C-7: Prostitution And Related Offenses
6-5C-8: Conduct Near Schools
6-5C-1: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF PHYSICAL DISABILITIES:
No person shall falsely represent himself as blind, deaf, crippled or
physically disabled for the purpose of obtaining money or other things of
value, or to secure aid or assistance on account of such false representation.
(1997 Code § 10-506; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5C-2: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AGE:
No person shall, for the purpose of violating any statutes of the state or any
ordinances of the city, wilfully and knowingly misrepresent his age by
presenting a false document purporting to state his true age or by presenting a
document not his own. (1997 Code § 10-508)
6-5C-3: WINDOW PEEPING:
No person shall hide, wait or otherwise loiter in the vicinity of any private
dwelling house, apartment building, any other place of residence, or in the
vicinity of any locker room, dressing room, restroom or any other place where a
person has a right to a reasonable expectation of privacy, with the unlawful
and wilful intent to watch, gaze, or look upon any person in a clandestine
manner. (1997 Code § 10-507; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5C-4: OBSCENE, THREATENING, HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person who, by means of a telecommunication
or other electronic communication device, wilfully either:
      1.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
      2.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication with
intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
      3.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, with intent to put the party called in fear of
physical harm or death;
      4.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the person
making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or
harass any person at the called number;
      5.   Knowingly permits any telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this section; and
      6.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes repeated
calls or electronic communications or simultaneous calls or electronic
communications solely to harass any person at the called number(s).
   B.   As used in this section, "telecommunication" and "electronic
communication" mean any type of telephonic, electronic or radio communications,
or transmission of signs, signals, data, writings, images and sounds or
intelligence of any nature by telephone, including cellular telephones, wire,
cable, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo- optical system or the
creation, display, management, storage, processing, transmission or
distribution of images, text, voice, video or data by wire, cable or wireless
means, including the internet. The terms include:
      1.   A communication initiated by electronic mail, instant message,
network call, or facsimile machine; and
      2.   A communication made to a pager.
   C.   Use of a telephone or other electronic communications facility under
this section shall include all use made of such a facility between the points
of origin and reception. Any offense under this section is a continuing offense
and shall be deemed to have been committed at either the place of origin or the
place of reception. (1997 Code § 10-509; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5C-5: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   Definition: A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by
which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed
by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute; (1997 Code § 10-510)
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages and low point beer as defined by law; (1997 Code § 10-510; amd. 2014
Code)
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of the same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house. No persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
      3.   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the city
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or
officers in the discharge of their professional or official duties. (1997 Code
§ 10-510)
6-5C-6: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to play any prohibited game
described in this section.
   B.   Frequenting Gambling Premises: It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise.
   C.   Gambling Devices:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to exhibit or expose to view in any
building, or in any part of or room in any building, any table, cards, dice,
roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for or used for gambling
purposes. (1997 Code § 10-512)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to keep, own, operate, use or conduct,
or cause to be kept, operated, used or conducted, either as owner, manager,
dealer, clerk or employee, and whether for hire or not, any punchboard,
machine, cards, game, parlay card or any other device or paraphernalia wherein
or whereby any money or property, or any representative of either, or other
valuable thing may be played, bet, staked, wagered or hazarded, won, lost or
obtained upon any change, combination of numbers, emblems or any uncertain or
contingent event or condition, or sports contest. (1997 Code § 10-512; amd.
2014 Code)
      3.   The apparatus and paraphernalia used in the conduct of any of the
gambling games prohibited by this section are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and subject to seizure and suppression by any officer, and shall be
abated, forfeited and destroyed upon the order and decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Preventing Access To Gambling House: It is unlawful for any person to
bar or barricade any building, or any part of or room in any building, in order
to render the same difficult to access or ingress by the police officers of the
city, in which building, or any part of or room in any such building, any
table, cards, dice, roulette wheel or other article or apparatus designed for
or being used for gambling purposes is exhibited or exposed to view. (1997 Code
§ 10-512)
   E.   Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of an offense. (1997 Code § 10-512; amd. 2014 Code)
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to prevent the sponsoring and operation of bingo games by nonprofit religious,
fraternal, charitable or educational organizations; provided the organizations
are properly licensed and operated in accordance with law. (1997 Code § 10-512)
6-5C-7: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PROCURER: A person who, within one year prior to the
date of the suspected violation of this section, has, with the knowledge of the
arresting officer, been convicted of a violation of this section or has been
convicted of violating any statute or ordinance of any jurisdiction which makes
prostitution or soliciting for the purpose of prostitution unlawful.
   PROSTITUTION: 1. The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value. (1997 Code § 10-513; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful:
         a.   To engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation;
         b.   To solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation or prostitution; or
         c.   To aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      2.   No person shall, in any way or manner whatsoever, keep, harbor or
house any prostitute. (1997 Code § 10-513)
      3.   No person shall entice or attempt to entice any person into a house
of prostitution, or have illicit sexual intercourse with any person under
eighteen (18) years of age. (1997 Code § 10-513; amd. 2014 Code)
      4.   No person shall keep or maintain a house of prostitution or house of
assignation.
      5.   No person shall lease, let or furnish any building, room, tent or
structure of any kind, or any conveyance used or to be used as a place of
prostitution or assignation within the city, or knowingly permit the same to be
so used. (1997 Code § 10-513)
      6.   No person shall knowingly accept, receive, levy or appropriate any
money or other thing of value without consideration from a prostitute or from
the proceeds of any person engaged in prostitution. (1997 Code § 10-513; amd.
2014 Code)
      7.   No person shall offer or offer to secure another for the purpose of
prostitution or for any other lewd or indecent act.
      8.   No person shall direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take
or transport, or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house, place,
building or other structure, vehicle, trailer or other conveyance, or to any
other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the
purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution, lewdness or
assignation.
      9.   For a person to be present in a public place in a manner and under
circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing, soliciting or
procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the circumstances
which may be considered in determining whether such a purpose is manifested
are: that such person is a known prostitute or procurer; that such person
repeatedly beckons to, stops or attempts to stop or engage passersby in
conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators
by hailing, waving of arms or any other bodily gesture. No arrest shall be made
for a violation of this subsection unless the arresting officer first affords
such person an opportunity to explain such conduct, and no one shall be
convicted of violating this subsection if it appears at trial that the
explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful purpose. (1997 Code § 10-513)
6-5C-8: CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOLS:
No person shall engage in any of the conduct or acts hereinafter set forth
around, in or near any school or school grounds or streets and alleys adjacent
to any school:
   A.   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school;
   B.   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   C.   Lewd or wanton conduct in, near or around any school or school grounds
or streets and alleys adjacent to any school;
   D.   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the
purpose of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school; or
   E.   Any other act or conduct calculated to or likely to annoy or molest any
student or employee of any school. (1997 Code § 10-514)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR AND DRUGS
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Public Intoxication
6-5D-2: Marijuana
6-5D-3: Drug Paraphernalia
6-5D-4: Sniffing Glue, Paint And Other Substances
6-5D-1: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
No person shall be in any public place in a state of intoxication. A "state of
intoxication" means the condition in which a person is under the influence of
drugs, alcoholic beverages or low point beer to such an extent as to deprive
the person of his full mental or physical power or be unable to exercise care
for his own safety or the safety of others. (1997 Code § 10-501; amd. 2014
Code)
6-5D-2: MARIJUANA:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" means all
parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the rosin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or rosin, but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant; fiber produced
from such stalks; oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation
of such mature stalks (except rosin extracted therefrom); fiber; oil or cake;
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (1997
Code § 10-502)
   B.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana.
      2.   To use, have, or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the city.
      3.   To be about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished illegally.
(1997 Code § 10-502; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5D-3: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "drug paraphernalia" means
all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for
use, or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the state uniform controlled
dangerous substances act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101 et seq.,
hereinafter referred to as "the act", and adopted by reference herein. It
includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body; and
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   B.   Determining Drug Paraphernalia: In determining whether an object is
drug paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to
all other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of
the object under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the act;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intended to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the act. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as
to a direct violation of the act shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Use: It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent
to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the act.
      2.   Sale: It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent
to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver drug paraphernalia knowing,
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used
to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the act.
      3.   Advertising: It is unlawful for any person to place in any
newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any advertisement knowing,
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of
the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects
designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. (1997 Code § 10-503)
6-5D-4: SNIFFING GLUE, PAINT AND OTHER SUBSTANCES:
No person shall sniff or inhale paint, glue, gasoline or other volatile
substances for purposes of intoxication. (1997 Code § 10-504)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Escape, Attempt To Escape
6-5E-2: Aid In Escape
6-5E-3: Communicating With, Delivering Articles To Prisoners
6-5E-4: Resisting, Assaulting Public Officials
6-5E-5: Obedience To Police And Fire Personnel
6-5E-6: Eluding Police
6-5E-7: Duty To Assist Police
6-5E-8: Use Of Siren Or Whistle
6-5E-9: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
6-5E-10: False Statements, Reports Or Complaints
6-5E-11: False Alarms
6-5E-12: Duties Of Public At Fires And Emergencies
6-5E-13: Signs And Equipment
6-5E-14: Interfering With Police Dog
6-5E-15: Destroying, Tampering With Evidence
6-5E-1: ESCAPE, ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE:
No person lawfully in custody or confined in jail, before or after conviction
for any violation of the ordinances of the city, or held in custody going to
jail, or working upon the streets or other public grounds of the city or in
custody of any officer of the city shall break or attempt to break a jail or
custody and escape or attempt to escape therefrom. (1997 Code § 10-601; amd.
2014 Code)
6-5E-2: AID IN ESCAPE:
   A.   No person shall convey into jail any disguised instrument or anything
proper or useful to facilitate the escape of any prisoner lawfully committed to
or detained in jail for any violation of the city ordinances, or for any
criminal offense, or lawfully detained or imprisoned therein, whether such
escape is effected or attempted or not. (1997 Code § 10-602; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   No person shall in any way aid, remove or assist any person to resist
or escape from the custody of any police officer or from any lawful
confinement. (1997 Code § 10-603; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5E-3: COMMUNICATING WITH, DELIVERING ARTICLES TO PRISONERS:
   A.   No person shall remain in or around the sidewalks, rights of way,
alleys or streets in front of, beside or behind the county jail for the purpose
of conversing or communicating or attempting to converse or communicate with
any persons inside the jail. (1997 Code § 10-602)
   B.   No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest
without the consent of the officer having charge and custody of the prisoner.
(1997 Code § 10-604)
6-5E-4: RESISTING, ASSAULTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   OBSTRUCTION OF: In addition to its common meaning, includes:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity. (1997 Code § 10-606)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
         a.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
         b.   Obstruct, threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to
intimidate any officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties;
or
         c.   Assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use abusive
or indecent language toward or about any officer or employee while such officer
or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (1997 Code § 10-615)
      2.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose, assault, prevent, fail to
cooperate with or in any way interfere with a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of the city.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer. (1997 Code § 10-606)
      4.   No person shall knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and
battery on any city official or police officer or firefighter while in the
performance of his duties. (1997 Code § 10-605)
6-5E-5: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL:
No person shall fail to heed a reasonable order of a police officer or
firefighter while such officer is in the discharge of an official duty in
maintaining the public safety or welfare. (1997 Code § 10-608)
6-5E-6: ELUDING POLICE:
No operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible signal, a
red light or a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle, showing the
same to be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol or state game ranger
car directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, shall wilfully
increase his speed or extinguish his lights to elude or attempt to elude such
police officer, or attempt in any other manner to elude the police officer.
(1997 Code § 10-609; amd. 2014 Code)
6-5E-7: DUTY TO ASSIST POLICE:
It is the duty of all persons in the city, when called upon by any police
officer, to promptly aid and assist him in the execution of his duties. (1997
Code § 10-607)
6-5E-8: USE OF SIREN OR WHISTLE:
   A.   No person shall use any police whistle or any other instrument used by
a police officer to give signals or imitate any signal given by one police
officer to another or any special signal used by police officers for the
purpose of improperly or causelessly attracting the attention of the police.
(1997 Code § 10-610)
   B.   No person, except members of police department, fire department or
other emergency services, shall ring, use or otherwise sound any gong, siren,
whistle or any other device for making similar noise. (1997 Code § 10-610; amd.
2014 Code)
6-5E-9: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
   A.   No person, other than police officers of the city, shall wear or carry
the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to or a colorable imitation of that adopted and worn or
carried by the police officers of the city.
   B.   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
   C.   It is unlawful to falsely impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, or falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, by
any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing or conduct, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being authorized to do so. (1997 Code §
10-611)
6-5E-10: FALSE STATEMENTS, REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   No person shall knowingly make or file or cause to be made or filed a
false or misleading report or misrepresentation, allegation or complaint with
the police department or any officer or employee of the city or on any official
application, or commit perjury before any tribunal of the city.
   B.   No person shall wilfully and without probable cause make a false report
to any person of any crime, violation of city ordinances, or circumstances
indicating the possibility of crime or violation having been committed
including, but not limited to, the unlawful taking of personal property, which
report causes or encourages the exercise of police or other official action or
investigation. (1997 Code § 10-612)
6-5E-11: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department, police department
or any other emergency personnel, or summon any officer or employee thereof
with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, accident or other emergency,
or knowingly cause the fire department or police department or its officers or
employees to make a useless or unnecessary run to any part of the city or
outside the city. (1997 Code § 10-613)
6-5E-12: DUTIES OF PUBLIC AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES:
   A.   All persons at fires or other emergencies or accidents shall conduct
themselves in an orderly and lawful manner and shall assist in maintaining law
and order.
   B.   No person at or near any fire or emergency shall conduct himself in a
disorderly manner or neglect or refuse to promptly obey any order of the fire
chief or his assistants relative to such fire; and no person shall resist,
obstruct, hinder or abuse any officer of the fire department or any firefighter
in the proper discharge of his duty. (1997 Code § 10-616)
   C.   Every police officer present at a fire shall keep all persons who are
in the way or impeding the work of the fire department away from the location
and, so far as possible, protect all property from loss or injury and cooperate
with and assist the fire department in every way possible while at the fire.
The fire chief or an assistant fire chief or any police officer shall have the
power to designate persons to guard any goods. (1997 Code § 10-616; amd. 2014
Code)
   D.   No person shall follow or block the way of any emergency vehicle
engaged in an emergency run or knowingly interfere with officers at the
location of any fire or emergency. (1997 Code § 10-616)
6-5E-13: SIGNS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Tampering With Signs And Equipment: It is unlawful for any person to
tamper with any signs, signal equipment or other device placed, operated and
maintained by the city in connection with the administration of its code
provisions, ordinances, regulations, services, functions or performance of
duties thereto. (1997 Code § 10-617)
   B.   Removal Of Barricades: It is unlawful for any person, except by proper
authority, to remove any barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the
city to keep traffic off any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(1997 Code § 10-614)
   C.   Public Works Construction:
      1.   Any person who removes, destroys, disturbs, or in any manner injures
any grade stake, stone or other mark or monument set by or under authority of
the city to designate or mark grades, lines, corners or benchmarks on any
public work in the city prior to the completion and acceptance of the contract
for which such stakes or monuments are set, without lawful authority, is guilty
of an offense.
      2.   Any contractor or other person constructing any public work in the
city shall protect such work by barriers or obstructions. It is unlawful for
any person to cross the barriers or to remove them until the work has been
completed and opened by authority of the city. (1997 Code § 10-313)
6-5E-14: INTERFERING WITH POLICE DOG:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to interfere with, tease, meddle
with, throw objects at or toward, torture, torment, injure, beat, strike, kick,
mutilate, disable or kill any dog used by the police department of the city, or
any member thereof, in the performance of the functions or duties of the
department. (1997 Code § 10-618)
6-5E-15: DESTROYING, TAMPERING WITH EVIDENCE:
It is unlawful to destroy, alter, conceal or disguise physical evidence, plant
false evidence, or furnish false information to an officer which impedes that
or another officer in the performance of his duties, or which is intended to
prevent the apprehension or to obstruct the prosecution or defense of any
person. (1997 Code § 10-619)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
ARTICLE A. JUVENILE CRIME ACT
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Purpose
6-6A-2: Definitions
6-6A-3: Original Jurisdiction Of Municipal Court
6-6A-4: Allowing Or Encouraging Minor To Commit An Offense
6-6A-5: Permitting Offenses Or Disorderliness On Premises
6-6A-6: Commission Of An Offense In The Presence Of Minors
6-6A-7: Curfew Regulations
6-6A-8: Truancy
6-6A-9: Parental Responsibility
6-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to curb the increasing problem of juvenile
crime; to educate and reform juvenile offenders; to punish juvenile offenders;
and to create an environment whereby adults and juveniles take responsibility
for the actions of juveniles. It is intended to hold neglectful or careless
parents to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through
an objective test. It shall not be a defense to the commission of any offense
that a parent, guardian or any other person whose responsibility it is to
exercise control over a minor was completely unaware or indifferent to the
activities, conduct or whereabouts of such minor. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, and words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include the singular. The word "shall" is mandatory
and not merely directory. The word "may" is always directory and not mandatory.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or in equivalent
phrasing, any person of the age of seventeen (17) years or younger. The term
"minor" shall be synonymous with the term "juvenile".
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a
court.
   PUBLIC PLACE IN PUBLIC VIEW: Any public street, highway, road, alley,
parking lot, park, playground, public building, parkway, sidewalk, vacant lot,
yard, driveway, automobile or cycle in public view.
   REMAIN: To stay behind; to tarry and stay unnecessarily upon a public place
in public view.
   TIME OF NIGHT: The prevailing local standard of time at the date in
question, whether Central Standard Time, or Central Daylight Saving Time, as
observed by the public. The time maintained by the New Cordell police
department shall be prima facie evidence of the time of day for continued
implementation of this article.
   YEARS OF AGE: The time from one birthday, such as seventeenth, to the next,
but not including the day of the next birthday. Thus, upon a person's
eighteenth birthday, he or she will cease to be a minor regulated by this
article. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999; amd. 2014 Code)
6-6A-3: ORIGINAL JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.   Certain Juvenile Cases: The municipal court may elect to have and
possess original jurisdiction to hear and determine any offenses committed by
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years and penalize juveniles found
guilty as allowed by 10A Oklahoma Statutes section 2-2-102(E). (Ord. 99-2, 4-
1999; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Traffic Cases: The municipal court may elect to have and possess
original jurisdiction to hear and determine any violations of traffic
ordinances by any person of any age, including minors. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-4: ALLOWING OR ENCOURAGING MINOR TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully aid, abet, allow,
encourage or, by omission of a duty, encourage or assist a minor to commit any
municipal, state or federal offense. Any person convicted of violating any
provision of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus
costs, or by imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-5: PERMITTING OFFENSES OR DISORDERLINESS ON PREMISES:
No owner, operator, proprietor, manager or employee of any place shall permit
minors who have congregated on the premises to commit any offense, or to
carouse, make unnecessary noises, disturb, disrupt or annoy the people residing
or carrying on business in the immediate neighborhood or so as to disturb the
peace. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999; amd. 2014
Code)
6-6A-6: COMMISSION OF AN OFFENSE IN THE PRESENCE OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any municipal, state or federal
offense in the presence of any person under eighteen (18) years of age. Any
person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be punishable
by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs, or by imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-7: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person
seventeen (17) years old or younger to be or remain in or upon any public place
in public view within the city between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, Friday and Saturday, and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. the following day. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section is intended as a clear general guide for minors, their
parents, and enforcement officials. In the following exceptional cases, a minor
in or upon any public place in public view shall not be deemed in violation of
this section:
         a.   When the minor is accompanied by his parent.
         b.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the rights of assembly. It shall be deemed a bona fide exercise of such
rights if the assembly, whether parade or demonstration, has been permitted by
the city or other bona fide religious, social or school activities involving
the right to assemble.
         c.   When engaged in performing an errand or other legitimate business
at the direction of a parent including travels to and from such location by a
direct route.
         d.   When the minor is engaged in employment activities, such as, but
not restricted to, newspaper delivery.
      2.   All of the exceptions cited in subsection B1 of this section include
travel to and from such activity by a direct route, and this section is in no
way to be construed as a limitation upon normal travel by a minor engaged in
interstate movement.
      3.   Each of the exceptions set out in subsection B1 of this section are
severable, and in addition, other possible exceptions may be added hereto in
the future as warranted by experience as illuminated by the views of student
government associations, school personnel, citizens, neighborhood
spokespersons, parents, officers and persons in authority concerned positively
with minors as well as juvenile delinquency.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent knowingly to
permit or, by insufficient control, to allow a minor to be or remain in any
public place in public view other than for the exceptions set forth in
subsection B of this section during curfew hours. The term "knowingly" includes
knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor. It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section if a responsible parent has no knowledge of a minor's whereabouts
during the hours of curfew established by this section.
   D.   Police Procedures:
      1.   A city police officer, upon finding or having attention called to
any minor in prima facie violation of this section, may take the minor to the
city police station, where a parent shall immediately be notified to come for
such minor, whereupon the parent may be questioned. This is intended to permit
ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and to
centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording, thus making
available experienced supervisory personnel, the best of facilities and access
to information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence, such as a
certificate or driver's license, a police officer on the street shall use his
best judgment in determining age.
      2.   Police procedure shall constantly be refined in light of experience
and may provide that the police officer may deliver a minor to a parent
thereof, under appropriate circumstances.
      3.   In any event, such police officer shall, within twenty four (24)
hours, file a written report with the chief of police, or shall participate to
the extent of the information for which he is responsible. Said report shall be
treated, for purposes of juvenile records, in accordance with state statutes.
      4.   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor may be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that, in accordance with police
regulations approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent. However, the police department shall
have the discretion to refuse to turn the child over to persons other than
natural parents or legal guardians if circumstances warrant such refusal in
their opinion.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   If a parent violates subsection C of this section, this shall be
treated as an offense by the parent. The penalty, upon a plea of guilty, nolo
contendere, or finding of a guilt, shall be a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs,
or by imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; and/or parental counseling classes; and/or community service;
and/or restitution when damages are a result of or are involved in the
violation.
      2.   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
more than one time may be reported to the district juvenile court for the
treatment, supervision and rehabilitation of such minor. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-8: TRUANCY:
   A.   Truancy Prohibited; Exemptions: It shall be unlawful for any minor who
is over the age of six (6) and who has not finished four (4) years of high
school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with the rules of some
public, private or other school, or receive an education by other means for the
full term the schools of the district in which the minor attends are in
session. Provided, that this section shall not apply:
      1.   If any such minor is prevented from attending school by reason of
mental or physical disability, as determined by the board of education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician
or, if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing
physician;
      2.   If any such minor is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal of the school in which the minor is enrolled, at
the request of the parent of the minor;
      3.   If any such minor is excused from attending school by:
         a.   The administrator of the school or district where the minor
attends school; and
         b.   The parent of the minor. Provided, further, that no minor shall
be excused from attending school by such joint agreement between a school
administrator and the parent of the minor unless and until it has been
determined that such action is in the best interest of the minor and/or the
community, and that said minor shall thereafter be under the supervision of the
parent until the minor has reached the age of eighteen (18) years; or
      4.   If any such minor is observing religious holy days and, prior to the
absence, the parent of the minor submits a written request for the absence.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent of a minor
who is over the age of six (6) years and under the age of eighteen (18) years
to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such minor to attend and comply with
the rules of a public, private or other school of the parent's choosing in
which the minor is enrolled.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Adults: Any adult person convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs, or by
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each separate day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
      2.   Minors: Any minor convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be punishable on the first offense by a fine of not more than
fifty dollars ($50.00); on the second offense by a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00); and on every subsequent offense by a fine of not
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00); plus costs. Each separate day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
6-6A-9: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent to fail to control a minor that is under
the parent's supervision by, after notification of a prior offense committed by
the minor, failing to prevent the minor from committing the same offense or
more than one other offense within one year of the date the minor committed the
first offense. Any person convicted of violating any provision in this section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs, or by imprisonment
for not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 99-2, 4-1999)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
ARTICLE B. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Title And Authority
6-6B-2: Purpose
6-6B-3: Definitions
6-6B-4: Furnishing Or Selling Tobacco Products To Minors
6-6B-5: Receipt Of Tobacco Products By Minors
6-6B-6: Distribution Of Samples
6-6B-7: Sale In Original, Sealed Package Only
6-6B-8: Public Access To Tobacco
6-6B-9: Access To Vending Machines
6-6B-10: Providing Tobacco Paraphernalia To Minors
6-6B-11: Signs Posted
6-6B-12: Notice To Retail Employees
6-6B-13: Restrictions On Enforcement
6-6B-14: Increase Of Fines; Fee Schedule
6-6B-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
This article shall be known as the NEW CORDELL PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO
TOBACCO ORDINANCE and is enacted pursuant to the municipal powers granted by
the constitution of the state of Oklahoma and 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 14-
101. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-2: PURPOSE:
Tobacco use by minors is a dangerous activity. The purpose of this article is
to protect the public health and welfare by preventing youth access to tobacco.
(Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-3: DEFINITIONS:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver's license or other government
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver's license or other government issued photo identification.
(Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-4: FURNISHING OR SELLING TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemptions: It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or
furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under
eighteen (18) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on
behalf of any such person. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for
an employee under the age of eighteen (18) years to handle tobacco products
when required in the performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   Identification Requirements:
      1.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products
shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude, on the basis of appearance, that the
prospective purchaser might be less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
products has demanded proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient
who is not less than eighteen (18) years of age, the failure to subsequently
require proof of age shall not constitute a violation of subsection B1 of this
section.
   C.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   When a person violates subsection A or B of this section, he or she
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a
fine as follows:
         a.   Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
offense;
         b.   Not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense;
         c.   Not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In addition to any
other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products may be suspended
for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days; or
         d.   Not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products may
be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
      2.   Pursuant to state law, when it has been determined by the municipal
court that a penalty shall include a license suspension, the alcoholic beverage
laws enforcement (ABLE) commission will notify the Oklahoma tax commission, and
the tax commission will suspend the store's license to sell tobacco products at
the location where the offense occurred for the period of time prescribed by
the ABLE commission.
   D.   Defense:
      1.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of such violation if such person proves that:
         a.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver's license or other government issued photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was eighteen (18) years of age or
older; and
         b.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver's license or other government issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      2.   Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver's license or other government issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   E.   Responsibility For Violations: If the sale is made by an employee of
the owner of a store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee
shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine. Each
violation by any employee of an owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco
products shall be deemed a violation against the owner for purposes of a
license suspension pursuant to subsection C of this section. An owner of a
store licensed to sell tobacco products shall not be deemed to be in violation
of this section for any acts constituting a violation by any person, when the
violation occurs prior to actual employment of the person by the store owner or
the violation occurs at a location other than the owner's retail store. For
purposes of determining the liability of a person controlling franchises or
business operations in multiple locations, for any violations of subsection A
or B of this section, each individual franchise or business location shall be
deemed a separate entity.
   F.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure to pay fines within ninety (90) days
of the assessment of such fine, the following actions shall occur:
      1.   Employee: Upon failure of the employee to pay the fine within ninety
(90) days of the day of the assessment of such fine, the municipal court clerk
shall notify the department of public safety, and the department will, pursuant
to state law, suspend or not issue a driver's license to the employee until
proof of payment has been furnished to said department.
      2.   Business Owner: Upon failure of a store owner to pay the
administrative fine within ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the
municipal court clerk shall notify the Oklahoma tax commission, and the tax
commission shall suspend the store's license to sell tobacco products until
proof of payment has been furnished to said tax commission. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-
16-2012)
6-6B-5: RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for a person who is less than eighteen (18)
years of age to purchase, receive or accept receipt of, or have in his
possession, a tobacco product, or to present or offer to any person any
purported proof of age which is false or fraudulent, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. It shall not be unlawful for an
employee who is less than eighteen (18) years of age to handle such tobacco
products when required in the performance of the employee's duties. (Ord. 2012-
01, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Violation; Penalties: When a person violates subsection A of this
section, he or she shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of:
      1.   Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      2.   Not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or
subsequent offense within a one year period following the first offense.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of the individual to pay such fine
within ninety (90) days of the day of the fine, the municipal court clerk shall
notify the department of public safety, and by operation of state law, the
department shall suspend or not issue a driver's license to the individual
until proof of payment has been furnished to said department. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-
16-2012)
6-6B-6: DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLES:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute
tobacco products or product samples to any person under eighteen (18) years of
age.
      2.   No person shall distribute tobacco products or product samples in or
on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet
(300') of any playground, school, or other facility when the facility is being
used primarily by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Violation; Penalties: When a person violates any provision of
subsection A of this section, he or she shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of:
      1.   Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      3.   Not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense.
   C.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of any individual to pay an
administrative fine within ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the
municipal court clerk shall notify the department of public safety, and the
department, pursuant to state law, shall suspend or not issue a driver's
license to the individual until proof of payment has been furnished to said
department. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-7: SALE IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE ONLY:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in
the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, the
municipal court clerk shall assess such person an administrative fine of not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-
2012)
6-6B-8: PUBLIC ACCESS TO TOBACCO:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemptions: It is unlawful for any person or retail store
to display or offer for sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public
access to the tobacco product without assistance from the person displaying the
tobacco product or an employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not admit into the
store persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this
section, he or she shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-9: ACCESS TO VENDING MACHINES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell tobacco products through a vending
machine unless the vending machine is located:
   A.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are not
open to the public; and
   B.   In places that are open to the public, but to which persons under
eighteen (18) years of age are not admitted. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-10: PROVIDING TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in
any manner to another person who is under eighteen (18) years of age any
material or device used in the smoking, chewing, or other method of consumption
of tobacco, including cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of
all types, and other items designed primarily for the smoking or ingestion of
tobacco products.
   B.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this section, an
administrative fine of not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense may be imposed upon the person. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-11: SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   Regulations: Every person who sells or displays tobacco products at
retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business a
sign, as specified by the ABLE commission, stating the following: "It's The
Law. We Do Not Sell Tobacco Products To Persons Under 18 Years Of Age". The
sign shall also provide the toll free number operated by the ABLE commission
for the purpose of reporting violations of this chapter. The notice required by
this subsection shall be the only notice required to be posted or maintained in
any store that sells tobacco products at retail.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: When a person violates subsection A of this
section, he or she shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day a
violation occurs. Each day a violation is continuing shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-12: NOTICE TO RETAIL EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Every person engaged in the business of selling tobacco products at a
retail store shall notify each individual employed by that person as a retail
salesclerk that state and local law:
      1.   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products to any person
under eighteen (18) years of age and the purchase or receipt of tobacco
products by any person under eighteen (18) years of age; and
      2.   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective purchaser
or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude, on the basis of appearance,
that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be less than eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   This notice shall be provided before the individual commences work as a
retail salesclerk. The individual shall signify that he or she has received the
requisite notice by reading and signing a notice stating the following:
I understand that state law prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco
products to persons less than eighteen (18) years of age and out-of-package
sales, and requires proof of age of purchaser or recipient if an ordinary
person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser
or recipient may be under eighteen (18) years of age. I promise, as a condition
of my employment, to obey the law. I understand that violations by me may be
punishable by fines, suspension or nonissuance of my driver license. In
addition, I understand that violations by me may subject the store owner to
fines or license suspension.
(Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-13: RESTRICTIONS ON ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of any section of this chapter and any
negative results from compliance checks performed by a police officer pursuant
to subsection C of this section shall be reported in writing to the ABLE
commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE commission.
   B.   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the city and reported to the ABLE commission shall be
considered together in such determination.
   C.   Persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be enlisted by the city to
assist in conducting compliance checks and enforcement; provided, such persons
may be used to test compliance only if written parental consent has been
provided and the testing is conducted under the direct supervision of the ABLE
commission or conducted by another law enforcement agency if such agency has
given written notice to the ABLE commission in the manner prescribed by said
commission. This subsection shall not apply to the use of persons under
eighteen (18) years of age to test compliance if the test is being conducted by
or on behalf of a "retailer" of cigarettes, as defined in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 301, at any location the retailer of cigarettes is authorized to sell
cigarettes. Use of persons under eighteen (18) years of age to test compliance
shall be unlawful and punishable by assessment of an administrative fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
6-6B-14: INCREASE OF FINES; FEE SCHEDULE:
All fines set forth in this article may be increased, to the extent allowed by
state law, by resolution. It is not necessary to amend this article each time
the city deems it timely to increase fines and fees. A resolution may be
adopted by the city council and filed accordingly. The chief of police shall
maintain a current schedule of all fees allowed under this article in the
police department. (Ord. 2012-01, 4-16-2012)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
ARTICLE C. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS REGARDING MINORS
SECTION:
6-6C-1: Exposing Minors To Sexual, Obscene, Harmful Materials
6-6C-2: Gatherings Where Minors May Consume Alcoholic Beverages
6-6C-3: Contributing To Delinquency Of Minor
6-6C-1: EXPOSING MINORS TO SEXUAL, OBSCENE, HARMFUL MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   HARMFUL TO MINORS: 1. That quality of any description, exhibition,
presentation or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct,
sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance,
taken as a whole, has the following characteristics:
         a.   The average person eighteen (18) years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
has a predominant tendency to appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors;
and
         b.   The average person eighteen (18) years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
depicts or describes nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or
sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community with respect to what is suitable for minors;
and
         c.   The material or performance lacks serious literary, scientific,
medical, artistic, or political value for minors; or
      2.   Any description, exhibition, presentation or representation, in
whatever form, of inappropriate violence.
   KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
      1.   The character and content of any material or performance which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      2.   The age of the minor. However, an honest mistake shall constitute an
excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a reasonable bona fide
attempt to ascertain the true age of the minor.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, record, recording tape, or
videotape.
   MINOR: Any unmarried person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttock, with less than full opaque covering; the showing of the female breast
with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of
the nipple; or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
   PERFORMANCE: Any motion picture, film, videotape, played record, phonograph,
or tape, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance or other exhibition
performed or presented to or before an audience of one or more, with or without
consideration.
   REASONABLE BONA FIDE ATTEMPT: An attempt to ascertain the true age of the
minor by requiring production of a driver's license, marriage license, birth
certificate or other governmental or education identification card or paper and
not relying solely on the oral allegations of apparent age of the minor.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask, or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse, or
physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, or, if such person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal. (1997 Code § 10-518; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions: No person having custody, control or supervision of any
commercial establishment shall knowingly:
      1.   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that
minors, as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view such
material; however, a person shall be deemed not to have "displayed" materials
harmful to minors if the material is kept behind sales counters and behind
devices commonly known as "binder racks" so that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of
the material is not exposed to view;
      2.   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view, or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors; or
      3.   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with or
without consideration, any performance which is harmful to a minor.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution
hereunder that the material or performance involved was displayed, presented or
disseminated to a minor at a recognized and established school, church, museum,
medical clinic, hospital, public library, governmental agency, or quasi-
governmental agency by persons acting in their capacity as employees or agents
of the above, and which person, organization or institution displays, presents
or disseminates such material or performance for a bona fide governmental,
educational or scientific purpose. (1997 Code § 10-518)
6-6C-2: GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS MAY CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (1/2%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit
for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point
beer" as defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and
two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, by court order, is the guardian of a minor;
or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent (1/2%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight including, but not limited to, beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt or similar products.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place, or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering including, but not
limited to: 1) salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s); 2) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or other
emergency response personnel injured responding to, remaining at, or leaving
the scene of a gathering; 3) the cost of repairing any city equipment or
property damaged and the cost of the use of any such equipment in responding
to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering; and 4) any other
allowable costs related to the enforcement of this section. (Ord. 2008-02, 4-7-
2008; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Consumption By Minors: Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      1.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any public place or any place open
to the public; or
      2.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any place not open to the public
unless, in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage, that
minor is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Alcohol Is Present:
      1.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      2.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state
of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 2008-02, 4-7-2008)
   E.   Violation; Penalties: Any person who shall violate the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable for violation of a class A offense,
with fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus all court costs and statutory penalties. (Ord. 2008-
02, 4-7-2008; amd. 2014 Code)
   F.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be
prosecuted by the city criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided
by this code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs
associated with enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures
provided by statute, ordinance, or law. This section shall not limit the
authority of peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any
criminal offense arising out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall
they limit the city's ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense
arising out of the same circumstances necessitating the application of this
section.
   G.   Inapplicability Of Provisions: This section shall not apply where
prohibited or preempted by state or federal law. (Ord. 2008-02, 4-7-2008)
6-6C-3: CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINOR:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ANY PERSON: Any human being, without regard to the legal or natural
relationship to a minor, as well as legal or corporate entities.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (1997 Code § 10-516)
   B.   Prohibition: Any person who shall knowingly or wilfully cause, aid,
abet or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent child or
a runaway child, as said terms are defined by state law, shall be guilty of an
offense. (1997 Code § 10-516; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purposes
6-7-2: Prohibited Acts
6-7-3: Exemptions
6-7-4: Fair Housing Board
6-7-5: Complaint Procedure
6-7-6: Method Of Serving Notices
6-7-7: Violation; Penalties
6-7-1: PURPOSES:
The general purposes of this chapter are:
   A.   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   B.   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare. (1997 Code § 5-701)
6-7-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate salesperson, or
corporation:
   A.   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, gender, familial
status, or disabilities;
   B.   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental, or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, because of such person's race, color, religion, national origin,
age, gender, familial status, or disabilities;
   C.   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not
to sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of
value due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person
or persons of another race, color, religion, national origin, age, gender,
familial status, or disabilities, either by direct solicitation or inducement
or by the purchase of other property in the neighborhood for the purpose of
such inducement, or to distribute or cause to be distributed material or making
statements designed to induce a residential property owner to sell or lease his
property due to such change in neighborhood; or
   D.   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment. (1997 Code § 5-702; amd. 2014
Code)
6-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing herein shall apply to any religious organization, association,
society or private club; a religious nonprofit organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units
owned and operated for other than a commercial purpose.
   B.   Nothing herein shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses and was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such
sale with the exception granted to one such sale within a twenty four (24)
month period; provided further, that such owner does not own or retain in his
behalf title to a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than
three (3) such single- family houses at any one time; provided further, that
such sale or rental of such single-family house shall be excepted if such house
is sold or rented without the use in any manner of a sale or rental facility or
employee thereof; or
      2.   Any dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently of each other,
and the owner actually occupies one such living quarter as his residence. (1997
Code § 5-703)
6-7-4: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a fair housing board of the
city, hereinafter referred to as "board", composed of the mayor and members of
the city council. (1997 Code § 5-704)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the fair housing board to:
      1.   Initiate, receive, and investigate complaints charging unlawful
housing practices;
      2.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact, and publish its findings of fact; and
      3.   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this chapter, and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter. (1997 Code § 5-705)
6-7-5: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Complaint Filed: Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice
prohibited by this chapter may file with the fair housing board a complaint in
writing, under oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be
aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within
thirty (30) days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within the
time shall be considered a waiver of the application of this chapter. The board
may issue a complaint on its own initiative at any time it is within the
knowledge of the board that a person has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Investigation: The board shall investigate each complaint filed
therewith and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of
conference and conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose
of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a
complaint is not well founded, the board shall dismiss the complaint and notify
the complainant and respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the board takes
no action within ninety (90) days of the filing of the complaint, it shall be
considered as dismissed.
   C.   Notice Of Complaint: If conference or conciliation does not result in
compliance with this chapter, the board shall cause to be issued and served, in
the name of the city, a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint,
requiring the person named in the complaint, hereinafter referred to as
respondent, to answer charges of the complaint at a hearing before the board at
a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   D.   Hearing: At the hearing provided for in subsection C of this section,
the complaint shall be heard by the board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person or by counsel, and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel. The board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party or at the direction of the board. If the board finds at the hearing that
the respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice or practices
prohibited by this chapter, it shall state its findings of fact, and shall so
certify the matter to the city attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution
shall be brought under this chapter except upon such certification. If the
board, upon hearing, finds that the respondent has not engaged in any
discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact and shall issue
and file an order dismissing the complaint.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: The board shall establish rules and regulations
to govern and expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure and shall
maintain the files provided herein. (1997 Code § 5-706)
6-7-6: METHOD OF SERVING NOTICES:
Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be served
upon any person may be served personally on such person or by mailing a copy
thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to the
most current business or residence address of such person. (1997 Code § 5-707)
6-7-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
It is unlawful and constitutes an offense for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any provision
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and is subject, upon
conviction, to punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs. (1997 Code § 5-708)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Traffic Code; General Provisions   1
Traffic Control Signs, Signals And Devices   2
Driving Rules   3
Parking Regulations   4
Loading And Unloading   5
Pedestrians   6
Vehicle Equipment And Condition   7
Bicycles, Electric Assisted Bicycles,
Motor Driven Cycles, Motorcycles,
Motorized Scooters And Mopeds   8
Enforcement And Penalty   9
Utility Vehicles, Golf Carts, And Similar Vehicles   10
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Scope
7-1-3: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-4: Definitions
7-1-5: Application Of Provisions
7-1-6: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
7-1-7: Vehicle Registration
7-1-8: Driver's License Requirements
7-1-9: Insurance Requirements; Exemptions
7-1-10: Accidents
7-1-11: Improvements On Public Ways; Street Closures
7-1-12: Dangerous Objects In Streets
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the CITY TRAFFIC CODE. (1997 Code
§ 15-101)
7-1-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title shall apply and be enforced on all roads, streets
and highways within the city and on all roads, streets and highways forming the
boundary lines of the city. (1997 Code § 15-107)
7-1-3: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference the state motor
vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-101 et seq., and the state "rules
of the road", 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-201 et seq., and all other
misdemeanor traffic and motor vehicle violations in 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as
now exist and as may be from time to time amended. Such state laws as adopted
herein by reference shall be fully enforceable by the city within the city
limits as fully as if set out at length herein. At least one copy of the
provisions adopted herein by reference is on file in the office of the city
clerk for public use and inspections. (1997 Code § 15-106; amd. 2014 Code)
7-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use not more than thirty
feet (30') wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and
not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ARTERIAL STREET: Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled access highway
or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated by the
city council within its jurisdiction as part of a major arterial system of
streets or highways.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: A. When equipped as prescribed in subsection
B of this definition:
      1.   Vehicles of fire departments;
      2.   Ambulances or vehicles specified pursuant to 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-2512, subsection B of licensed ambulance service providers;
      3.   State vehicles of law enforcement agencies;
      4.   County vehicles of sheriffs and full time commissioned deputies and
vehicles designated by the sheriff for support of the sheriff's office
including privately owned vehicles driven by the sheriff and full time, part
time and reserve commissioned deputies; provided the audible sirens and
flashing red lights equipped on such privately owned vehicles are used only in
a law enforcement capacity and in the course of duty;
      5.   Municipal vehicles of police departments;
      6.   Vehicles owned and operated by the United States marshals service or
the federal bureau of investigation;
      7.   Vehicles of Oklahoma national guard units designated by the adjutant
general for support to civil authorities; or
      8.   Vehicles owned and operated by any local organization for emergency
management as defined by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 683.3
are "authorized emergency vehicles".
   B.   All vehicles prescribed in subsection A of this definition shall be
equipped with sirens capable of giving audible signals as required by the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218 and flashing red lights as
authorized by the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218.
   BICYCLE, ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE AND MOTORIZED BICYCLE: A. A "bicycle" is
a device upon which any person or persons may ride, propelled solely by human
power through a belt, chain, or gears, and having two (2) or more wheels,
excluding mopeds.
   B.   An "electric assisted bicycle" is any bicycle with:
      1.   Two (2) or three (3) wheels; and
      2.   Fully operative pedals for human propulsion and equipped with an
electric motor:
         a.   With a power output not to exceed one thousand (1,000) watts;
         b.   Incapable of propelling the device at a speed of more than thirty
(30) miles per hour on level ground; and
         c.   Incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when
human power alone is used to propel the device at a speed of thirty (30) miles
per hour or more.
An electric assisted bicycle shall meet the requirements of the federal motor
vehicle safety standards as set forth in federal regulations and shall operate
in such a manner that the electric motor disengages or ceases to function when
the brakes are applied.
   C.   A "motorized bicycle" is any bicycle having:
      1.   Fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power;
      2.   A power drive system that functions directly or automatically
without clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive system is
engaged; and
      3.   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of eighty
(80) cubic centimeters or less, regardless of the number of chambers in the
engine, which is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of
not more than thirty five (35) miles per hour on level ground.
   D.   The term "bicycle" shall include tricycles, quadcycles, or similar
human powered devices, electric assisted bicycles, and motorized bicycles
unless otherwise specifically indicated.
   BOULEVARD OR THROUGH STREET: Any street or highway, or portion thereof,
designated by ordinances of the city which require vehicles to come to a full
and complete stop before entering such street or highway from intersecting
streets or highways.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   BUS LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, office buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CLASSES OF VEHICLES:
Class A Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any combination of vehicles, except a class D
motor vehicle, with a gross combined weight rating of twenty six thousand one
(26,001) or more pounds, provided the gross vehicle weight rating of the
vehicle or vehicles being towed is in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
Class B Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any single vehicle, except a class D motor
vehicle, with a gross vehicle weight rating of twenty six thousand one (26,001)
or more pounds, or any such vehicle towing a vehicle not in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight rating. This class shall apply
to a bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of twenty six thousand one (26,001)
or more pounds and designed to transport sixteen (16) or more persons,
including the driver.
Class C Commercial Motor Vehicle: Any single vehicle or combination of
vehicles, other than a class A or class B vehicle, as defined herein, which is:
   A.   Required to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172,
subpart F; or
   B.   Designed by the manufacturer to transport sixteen (16) or more persons,
including the driver.
Class D Motor Vehicle: A. Any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles which:
      1.   Regardless of weight:
         a.   Is marked and used as an "authorized emergency vehicle", as
defined in this section; or
         b.   Is designed and used solely as a recreational vehicle;
      2.   Is a single or combination vehicle with a gross combined weight
rating of less than twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds;
      3.   Is a single or combination farm vehicle with a gross combined weight
rating of more than twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds if:
         a.   It is entitled to be registered with a farm tag and has a farm
tag attached thereto;
         b.   It is controlled and operated by a farmer, his or her family or
employees;
         c.   It is used to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, farm supplies or any combination of those materials to or from a
farm;
         d.   It is not used in the operation of a common or contract motor
carrier; and
         e.   It is used within one hundred fifty (150) air miles of the
person's farm or as otherwise provided by federal law; or
      4.   Is operated by a licensed driver employed by a unit of local
government that operates a commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of
that unit of local government for the purpose of removing snow or ice from a
roadway by plowing, sanding or salting, if:r
         a.   The properly licensed employee who ordinarily operates a
commercial vehicle for these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle; or
         b.   The employing governmental entity determines that a snow or ice
emergency requires additional assistance.
   B.   A class D motor vehicle shall not include any vehicle which is:
      1.   Designed to carry sixteen (16) or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      2.   Required to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49 CFR part
172, subpart F; provided, a farm vehicle, as defined herein, which is required
to be placarded for hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172, subpart F, shall
be considered to be a class D motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Every person who operates, drives or is in
actual physical control of a class A, B or C commercial motor vehicle, as
defined under the term "classes of vehicles" in this section.
   CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
roadway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB: The edge of a roadway marked or understood as such.
   CURB LOADING ZONES: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers, freight or
materials.
   DAYTIME; NIGHTTIME: "Daytime" means one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise until
one-half (1/2) hour after sunset. "Nighttime" means any other time.
   DOUBLE PARK: The standing or stopping of a vehicle, parallel to another
vehicle parked, whether occupied or not, on the roadway.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY: A condition suddenly created, requiring immediate action for the
preservation of public peace, health or safety, and among other things,
particularly means any fire, unusual storm, death, riot or unusual traffic
condition.
   EXPLOSIVES: Shall have the same meaning as defined in 49 CFR part 173.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE: Includes any liquid, gas, or other material as defined
in 49 CFR part 173.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: A. Every device, whether it is self- propelled,
designed and adapted so as to be used exclusively for agricultural,
horticultural or livestock raising operations or for lifting or carrying an
implement of husbandry and, in either case, not subject to registration if
operated upon the highways.
   B.   Farm wagon type tank trailers of not over one thousand two hundred
(1,200) gallons' capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as field
storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and moved
on highways only for bringing the fertilizer from a local source of supply to
farms or field or from one farm or field to another, shall be considered
implements of husbandry for purposes of this title.
   C.   Trailers or semitrailers owned by a person engaged in the business of
farming and used exclusively for the purpose of transporting farm products to
market or for the purpose of transporting to the farm material or things to be
used thereon shall also be considered implements of husbandry for purposes of
this title. Provided, no truck or semitrailer with an axle weight of twenty
thousand (20,000) pounds or more which is used to haul manure and operated on
the public roads or highways of this state shall be considered an implement of
husbandry for the purposes of this title.
   D.   Utility type, all-terrain vehicles with a maximum curb weight of one
thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds which are equipped with metal front or
rear carrying racks when used for agricultural, horticultural or livestock
raising operations shall be considered implements of husbandry for purposes of
this title.
   INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   LICENSE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE: A. Any valid driver's license or permit
to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including any
temporary license or instruction permit, the lawful possession of which by a
resident of this state shall be evidence that the resident has been granted the
privilege to operate a motor vehicle.
   B.   Any "nonresident's operating privilege", as defined in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-138, which is evidenced by the lawful possession of a valid
driver's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of
another state.
   METAL TIRE: Every tire, the surface of which in contact with the highway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Any motor vehicle having:
   A.   A power source that:
      1.   If the power source is a combustion engine, has a piston or rotor
displacement of greater than thirty five (35) cubic centimeters but less than
one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers
in the power source;
      2.   If the power source is electric, has a power output of greater than
one thousand (1,000) watts; and
   B.   A seat or saddle for the use of each rider; and
   C.   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: A. 1. Any vehicle which is self-propelled; or
      2.   Any vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
   B.   The term shall not include:
      1.   "Implements of husbandry", as defined in this section;
      2.   "Electric personal assistive mobility devices", as defined in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 1-114A;
      3.   "Motorized wheelchairs", as defined in Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
136.3; or
      4.   Vehicles moved solely by human or animal power.
   MOTORCYCLE: Any motor vehicle having:
   A.   A seat or saddle for the use of each rider;
   B.   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor; and
   C.   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of one hundred
fifty (150) cubic centimeters or greater.
   MUFFLER: A device designed for the use on a particular internal combustion
engine and properly affixed thereto for the purpose of reducing the exhaust
noise of such engine to an unobjectionable level.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, barricades, signals, markings
and devices not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of
a public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic which conforms to the latest edition of the "Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways", published by the
U.S. department of transportation, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk for public use and inspection.
   OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Every person, including a "commercial operator or
driver" as defined in this section, who operates, drives or is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle or who is exercising control over or
steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with a right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner.
   PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER: A rider in any vehicle other than the driver.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, diesel, electric, or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   REGISTRATION: The registration certificates and registration plates issued
under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of vehicles.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway, for a
distance of three hundred feet (300') or more, is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE: The termination by formal action of the
state department of public safety of a person's privilege to operate a motor
vehicle on the public highways. Such action shall include the requirement of
the surrender to the state department of public safety of said person's
driver's license.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, refers
to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE: An area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or so marked or indicated
by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school. This definition shall not include buses normally used in city
transit which may be used part time for transportation of schoolchildren within
the city during some portion of the day.
   SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle, with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests or is carried by another vehicle.
   SHOULDER: The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or a
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: All streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, parkways,
roads, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, sidewalks, recreation and park lands used for vehicular
traffic, or other parkways or thoroughfares in the city, over which it has
jurisdiction, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use, or such other public property so designated in any law of this state.
   SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGE: The temporary withdrawal by formal action
of the state department of public safety of a person's privilege to operate a
motor vehicle on the public highways. Such action shall include the requirement
of the surrender to said department of said person's driver's license.
   TAXICAB: Means and includes any motor vehicle for hire, designed to carry
ten (10) persons or less, operated upon any street or highway, or on call or
demand, accepting or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for transportation
for hire between such points along streets or highways as may be directed by
the passenger or passengers so being transported. This classification shall not
include:
   A.   Motor vehicles of ten (10) passenger capacity or less operated by the
owner where the cost of operation is shared by fellow workers between their
homes and the place of regular daily employment, when not operated for more
than two (2) trips per day;
   B.   Motor vehicles operated by the owner where the cost of operation is
shared by the passengers on a "share the expense plan"; or
   C.   Motor vehicles transporting students from the public school system when
said motor vehicle is so transporting under contract with a public, private, or
parochial school board or governing body.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: Every street or highway, or portion thereof, on
which vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to yield the right of way to vehicles on such through street or
highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when such signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either single or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop,
proceed or proceed with caution.
   TRAFFIC LANE: The portion of the traveled way for the movement of a single
line of vehicles.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle; provided, however, this definition shall not include
"implements of husbandry", as defined in this section.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
U-TURN: Turning a vehicle around so as to proceed in the opposite direction.
   URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) of a mile or more.
   VEHICLE: A. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   The term shall not include:
      1.   "Implements of husbandry", as defined in this section;
      2.   "Electric personal assistive mobility devices", as defined in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 1-114A; or
      3.   "Motorized wheelchairs", as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-136.3.
   YIELD: The yielding of the right of way to all vehicles or pedestrians
approaching from the right or left intersecting street which are so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard. (1997 Code § 15-102; amd. 2014 Code)
7-1-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pushcarts, Animals, Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person propelling any
pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any
animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this title
which, by their very nature, can have no application. (1997 Code § 15-1809)
   B.   Public Officers And Employees:
      1.   This title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used
in the service of the United States government, any state, county, city or
other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. No such driver
shall violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state statute.
      2.   This title shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the national guard when performing any military
duty. (1997 Code § 15-1805)
   C.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection C, but subject
to the conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; and
         e.   Disregard regulations governing turning in specified directions.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver is properly and lawfully
making use of an audible signal or of flashing red or blue lights or a
combination of flashing red and blue lights meeting the requirements of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 12-218; except, that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red or blue
light visible from in front of the vehicle. This subsection shall not be
construed as requiring a peace officer operating a police vehicle properly and
lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use audible signals.
      4.   The exemptions in subsections C2c and C2e of this section shall be
granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized emergency vehicle
for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual signals required
by this subsection C as long as the action does not endanger life or property
if the officer is following a suspected violator of the law with probable cause
to believe that:
         a.   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect
to:
            (1)   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
            (2)   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest; or
            (3)   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect; or
         b.   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to the
audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
The exceptions granted in this subsection C4 shall not apply to an officer who
is in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to elude the
officer in violation of 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 540A.
      5.   This subsection C shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard
for the safety of others. (1997 Code § 15-1806; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Public Works Vehicles:
      1.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor
vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in construction,
maintenance or repair of public utilities. All highway and public utility
operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or
flagmen, but the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to and from such work. (1997 Code § 15-1807; amd. 2014
Code)
      2.   This subsection D shall not relieve any driver exempted by this
subsection D from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor from the consequences of driving while intoxicated. (1997 Code §
15-1807)
7-1-6: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
The mayor is empowered to make effective the provisions of the traffic
ordinances of the city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to
cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental
regulation shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days. (1997 Code §
15-1803)
7-1-7: VEHICLE REGISTRATION:
No person shall operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city without
a state vehicle license or tag as may be required by law. No person shall fail
to display the state vehicle license or tag as required by law or attach any
trailer hitch or other device in a manner as to cover or partially cover the
vehicle license. (1997 Code § 15-306)
7-1-8: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on
any public roadway within the city unless such person has a current, not
suspended or revoked, valid driver's license as required by state law. (1997
Code § 15-521; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Suspended, False License:
      1.   No person shall:
         a.   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his
possession any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, photostatic or
fraudulently altered driver's license;
         b.   Lend his driver's license to any other person or knowingly permit
the use thereof by another;
         c.   Display or represent as his own any driver's license not issued
to him; or
         d.   Permit any unlawful use of a driver's license issued to him.
      2.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street within
the city at a time when his privilege to do so is canceled, suspended or
revoked. (1997 Code § 15-522; amd. 2014 Code)
7-1-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes article VI, chapter 7, and section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   B.   Proof Of Insurance Required:
      1.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry
either an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a
carrier, provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the state department of public safety, reflecting
liability coverage.
      2.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall carry in
such vehicle, at all times, a current owner's security verification form
listing the vehicle or an equivalent form which has been issued by the
department of public safety and shall produce such form upon request for
inspection by any law enforcement officer or representative of the department
of public safety, and in the case of collision, the form shall be shown upon
request to any person affected by such collision.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the department
of public safety during operation of the vehicle:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 7-600 through 7-607, according to
the records of the state department of public safety which reflect a deposit,
bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation pursuant to a permit number
issued by the interstate commerce commission or the corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   D.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and court costs.
      2.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
      3.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
      4.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (1997 Code § 15-103)
7-1-10: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Drivers Involved In Accidents:
      1.   Injury To Or Death Of Persons: The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall then forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene
of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection B of this
section. (1997 Code § 15-1401)
      2.   Damage To Property:
         a.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only
in apparent damage to property shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene
of such accident or as close thereto as possible. The driver shall remain at
the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of
subsection B of this section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with the
requirements under such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         b.   If the damage resulting from such accident is to the property of
the driver only, with no damage to the person or property of another, the
driver need not stop at the scene of the accident but shall make a report of
the resulting damage. (1997 Code § 15-1402)
      3.   Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which collides with
any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there
either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the correct
name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended
vehicle, and provide the operator or owner with information from his "security
verification form", as defined in subsection
7-1-9A of this chapter, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle
struck a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the
owner of the vehicle doing the striking, and providing information from his
"security verification form", as defined in subsection
 7-1-9A of this chapter, and a statement of the circumstances thereof. (1997
Code § 15-1404)
      4.   Fixtures: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent
to a highway shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or
person in charge of such property of such fact and of his name and address and
the registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall, upon request,
exhibit his driver's license and his "security verification form", as defined
in subsection
7-1-9A of this chapter, and shall make a report of such accident when and as
required in subsection C2 of this section. (1997 Code § 15-1405; amd. 2014
Code)
   B.   Information And Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give his correct name, address and
registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request,
exhibit his driver's license and his "security verification form", as defined
in subsection
7-1-9A of this chapter, to the person struck or the driver or occupant of or
person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(1997 Code § 15-1403; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Notice And Report Of Accident:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in any accident shall immediately,
by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such accident to the
police department, on forms provided by the police department, after complying
with the requirements of subsection B of this section. Where personal injury or
death occurs, the driver or drivers of the vehicles shall remain at the scene
of the accident until police officers arrive, except in cases of personal
injury requiring immediate attention. (1997 Code § 15-1406; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   An accident report is not required under this section from any
person who is physically incapable of making a report during the period of such
incapacity. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
an immediate notice of an accident as required in subsection C1 of this section
and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident
capable of doing so, such occupant shall make or cause to be given the notice
not given by the driver. (1997 Code § 15-1407)
7-1-11: IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET CLOSURES:
   A.   Authority To Close Streets: City personnel or contractors, while
repairing or improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the
streets, are authorized as necessary, subject to control of the chief of
police, to close any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair,
maintenance or construction. In exercising such authority, such person shall
erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and
notify the public that the street has been closed to traffic. (1997 Code § 15-
1808; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Obedience To Barricades And Traffic Control Devices During Street
Closures: When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section, and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, no person shall drive any vehicle through, under, over or around
such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise enter the closed area.
This subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such construction,
maintenance and repair or to persons entering therein for the protection of
lives or property. Persons having their places of residence or places of
business within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the
area at their own risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required During Construction: Whenever
construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility line or facility
is being performed under traffic, the city personnel, contractor, or utility
company concerned shall erect or cause to be erected traffic control devices to
warn and guide the public. Every person using such street shall obey all signs,
signals, markings, flagmen or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1997 Code § 15-1808)
7-1-12: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed, or
let fall and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass
or other thing which is likely to injure persons or damage property, or to
render a street unsafe for traffic.
   B.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such
vehicle. (1997 Code § 15-404)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
7-2-2: Specifications
7-2-3: Effect Of Traffic Signs For Enforcement
7-2-4: Obedience To Devices
7-2-5: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
7-2-6: Interference With, Damage To Traffic Control Devices
7-2-7: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
7-2-8: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-2-9: Flashing Signals
7-2-10: Pedestrian Control Signals
7-2-11: Testing Traffic Control Devices
7-2-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The mayor, subject to direction of the city council, shall have placed and
maintained traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required
under the traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of
such ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic
control signs, signals and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic
under the traffic ordinances of the city or under state law or to guide or warn
traffic. (1997 Code § 15-201)
7-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the latest
edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways", as published by the U.S. department of transportation. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All
traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this chapter shall be official traffic control devices. (1997 Code
§ 15-202; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-3: EFFECT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT:
No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign was not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1997 Code § 15-203)
7-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted in this title to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle. (1997 Code § 15-204)
7-2-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitation Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place, maintain or
display upon or in view of any highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, which projects any flashing or revolving beams of light,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Advertising On Traffic Control Devices: No person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic
sign, signal or device bearing thereon any commercial or other advertising.
   C.   Advertising On Public Ways: No sign or advertising shall be placed in a
street right of way except official signs or devices placed by authority of
this code or state law.
   D.   Exemptions: This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   E.   Summary Removal: Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device
is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city is empowered to
remove the same without notice. (1997 Code § 15-209)
7-2-6: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, change the position of or remove any official traffic
control device, including any 911 emergency telephone service route markers, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof. (1997 Code § 15-210; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-7: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The mayor, subject to direction by the city council, is authorized to:
   A.   Designate and have maintained by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway crosswalks at intersections where, in his
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he may deem necessary; and (1997 Code § 15-211)
   B.   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as
he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1997 Code § 15-211;
amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
   A.   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows successively one at a time,
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
      1.   Green Indication:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal, except when
prohibited by law, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a
sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited;
         b.   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
         c.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk;
      2.   Steady Yellow Indication:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter; and
         b.   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, are thereby
advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red
indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway;
and
      3.   Steady Red Indication:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before entering the
intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown
except as provided in subsections A3b and A3d of this section;
         b.   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular
traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
turn right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by subsection A3a of this section. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection;
         c.   In order to prohibit right turns or left turns as prescribed in
subsection A3b of this section, on the red signal after the required stop, the
city must erect clear, concise signs informing drivers that such turns are
prohibited. The state highway department shall specify the design of the sign
to be used for this purpose, and it shall be used uniformly throughout the
city;
         d.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the driver of a
motorcycle facing any steady red signal may cautiously proceed through the
intersection only if:
            (1)   The motorcycle has been brought to a complete stop as
required by subsection A3a of this section;
            (2)   The traffic control signal is programmed or engineered to
change to a green signal only after detecting the approach of a motor vehicle
and has failed to detect the arrival of the motorcycle because of its size or
weight; and
            (3)   No motor vehicle or person is approaching on the roadway to
be crossed or entered, or the motor vehicle or person is at a distance from the
intersection that does not constitute an immediate hazard.
The driver of any vehicle approaching the intersection, which lawfully may
enter the intersection, shall have the right of way over any motorcycle
operator proceeding through a red light and, in no event where an accident
results from the driver of the motorcycle proceeding into the intersection on a
red light, shall such driver of the vehicle be charged with any violation
pursuant to failure to yield right of way, following too closely, driving too
fast for conditions; and
         e.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady circular red signal alone shall not enter the
roadway.
   B.   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. (2014 Code)
7-2-9: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows: (1997 Code § 15-207)
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the requirements of law applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign; and (1997 Code § 15-207; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1997 Code §
15-207)
7-2-10: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
   A.   Generally: Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the
term "Walk" or "Wait" or "Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate
as follows:
      1.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the
drivers of all vehicles; and (1997 Code § 15-206)
      2.   Wait, Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "Wait" signal is showing. (1997 Code § 15-206; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Pedestrian Activated School Crossing Signals: Whenever a pedestrian
actuated school crossing signal is provided, it requires obedience by vehicular
traffic and pedestrians as provided in subsection A of this section and section
7-2-8 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 15-208; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   Flashing Yellow:
         a.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or past such signal only with caution; and
         b.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
actuate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
      2.   Steady Yellow Alone:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady yellow alone signal is
thereby warned that the red or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter, and such vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the
intersection or past the signal when the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited; and
         b.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which
the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
      3.   Steady Red:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
before passing the signal or entering the intersection, and shall remain
standing until flashing yellow is shown alone; and
         b.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the steady
red signal, and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      4.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the steady red and steady yellow
combined signal is thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal will be
exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such vehicular traffic shall remain
standing until the flashing yellow is shown alone; and (1997 Code § 15-208)
         b.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety zone and shall be given the right of
way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1997 Code § 15-208; amd. 2014 Code)
7-2-11: TESTING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The mayor may have traffic control devices tested under actual conditions of
traffic. (1997 Code §§ 15-201, 15-1803)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-3-2: Right Of Way
7-3-3: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-3-4: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-3-5: Speed Restrictions
7-3-6: School Zones
7-3-7: Drive On Right
7-3-8: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
7-3-9: Driving On Divided Highways
7-3-10: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
7-3-11: Turning Movements
7-3-12: Restrictions On Driving
7-3-13: Truck Traffic
7-3-14: Processions
7-3-15: Railroad Trains And Crossings
7-3-16: Play Streets
7-3-17: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-3-18: Reckless, Careless, Negligent Driving
7-3-19: Driving Under Influence Of Intoxicants
7-3-1: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal or red flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      2.   This subsection A shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals nor shall this subsection A operate to relieve
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (1997 Code § 15-518;
amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Following Emergency Vehicles: The driver of any vehicle, other than on
official business, shall not follow any emergency or fire apparatus traveling
in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into
or park such vehicle within the block where emergency apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (1997 Code § 15-517)
   C.   Driving Over Fire Hose: Whenever any hose of the fire department is
laid upon any street, avenue, alley, bridge or vacant lot in the city, no
person shall drive any automobile, truck, locomotive, railroad car or any other
vehicle over the same unless the hose shall have been protected by wooden
railings or other device laid along the side thereof, and then only at the
places so protected unless otherwise directed by a city official. (1997 Code §
15-516)
7-3-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Intersections At Highways:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal
highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop
and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or
which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      2.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from
different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
      3.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A1 and A2 of this
section are modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this
chapter.
   B.   T Intersections: The driver of a vehicle approaching a T intersection,
traveling down the base of the T intersection approaching a dead end must yield
the right of way to all traffic. (1997 Code § 15-801)
   C.   Entering Controlled Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a
state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal
highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered
the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
      2.   Where one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take
caution, the one slowing or taking caution shall have the right of way. Where
one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution, the one required
to take caution shall have the right of way. (1997 Code § 15-802)
   D.   Left Turn At Intersection: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is so close thereto when initiating such turn as to
constitute an immediate hazard. (1997 Code § 15-803; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signals: Where two (2) or more
vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or signals on two (2) or
more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so as to enter the
intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required to stop, the
vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where each vehicle
is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of
way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right of way. (1997 Code § 15-802)
   F.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The driver of a vehicle emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1997 Code §§ 15-530,
15-810)
7-3-3: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets: The mayor, subject to direction of the city council,
may designate any street or part of street as a through street. Whenever the
mayor designates and describes a through street, the mayor shall have placed
and maintained a stop sign or, if deemed more appropriate at any intersection,
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street, and a
heavy traffic street not so designated. Stop signs shall be erected at the
approaches of either of the streets as may be determined by the mayor if deemed
desirable. (1997 Code §§ 15-804, 15-805)
   B.   Determination Of Stop And Yield Intersections:
      1.   The mayor, subject to direction by the city council, is authorized
to determine and designate intersections where particular hazards exist upon
other than through streets and to determine:
         a.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event, he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
         b.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection as prescribed in subsection C of this
section, in which event, he shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every
place where obedience thereto is required.
      2.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1997 Code § 15-806; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Vehicles Entering Stop Intersections: Except when directed to proceed
by a police officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle
approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way
to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which
is approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard.
The driver having so yielded may proceed only when it is prudent and apparently
safe to do so. (1997 Code § 15-807)
   D.   Vehicles Entering Yield Intersections:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary and yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. If such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian
in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield
sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to
yield the right of way.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(1997 Code § 15-808)
7-3-4: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The city council, by resolution, may designate
any street or alley or part thereof as a one-way street or alley. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1997 Code § 15-1001)
   B.   Direction Of Traffic:
      1.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and
parts of alleys designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic
shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction
of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in
the opposite direction is prohibited. (1997 Code § 15-1002)
      2.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island. (1997 Code § 15-1003)
7-3-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper:
      1.   Notwithstanding a maximum speed limit enumerated in this section, no
person shall drive a vehicle upon any alley, highway, roadway, street or public
parking area at a speed greater than or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing, considering visibility, amount of traffic,
condition of roadway surface, presence of pedestrians, obstruction of view and
other similar facts.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance
ahead.
   B.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Generally: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this section or established as authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds. No
person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum
limits as follows:
         a.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on any street in a residential
district, except as may be posted otherwise and except on state or federal
highways; and (1997 Code § 15-701)
         b.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour as posted in school zones when school
is in session. (1997 Code § 15-701; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Authority To Alter Speed Limits: The mayor has authority to post
lower speed limits than those prescribed in this section where special hazards
exist.
   C.   Duty To Decrease Speed: The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower
than the designated limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions,
and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any
person or vehicle or on entering the roadway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care and precaution. (1997
Code § 15-701)
   D.   Minimum Speed: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle
at such slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation. Police
officers are hereby authorized to enforce this subsection by directions to
drivers, and in the event of wilful disobedience to this subsection or refusal
to comply with the direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the
continued slow operation by a driver shall be unlawful and constitute a
blocking of traffic and a violation of this subsection. (1997 Code § 15-702)
7-3-6: SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   Signs Posted: The mayor, subject to direction by the city council, is
authorized to erect signs to designate school zones and school zone crosswalks.
   B.   Obedience To Signs And Traffic Control Personnel: No person may drive a
vehicle past a school sign or through a school zone at a speed greater than
that posted per hour on school days. Drivers proceeding in a school zone shall
stop and yield the right of way to pedestrians in school zone crosswalks when
so directed by a school safety patrol member or when such crosswalk is occupied
by pedestrians between the hours posted on school days.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: Any driver involved in a school zone crosswalk
collision with a pedestrian after failing to slow and yield the right of way to
such pedestrian shall be deemed prima facie in violation of this section. (1997
Code § 15-809)
7-3-7: DRIVE ON RIGHT:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the laws governing such movement;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the laws applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      5.   Upon a roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway and may be
temporarily driven upon the right hand shoulder for the purpose of permitting
other vehicles to pass. This subsection shall not apply when overtaking and
passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for
a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
   C.   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2 of this section. However,
this subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway. (2014 Code)
7-3-8: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
   A.   Marking Traffic Lanes: The mayor, subject to direction of the city
council, is authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway or any
street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary. (1997 Code § 15-509)
   B.   Driving On Laned Roadways: Whenever any roadway has been divided into
two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following requirements,
in addition to all others consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety and then given a signal
not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle, of his
intention to change lanes; (1997 Code § 15-509; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   C.   Duty To Stay In Lane: Where traffic lanes have been marked, no operator
of any vehicle shall fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries
of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to
making lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by ordinance. (1997 Code
§ 15-509)
7-3-9: DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS:
Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated divided section
so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be driven
only upon the right hand roadway. No vehicle shall be driven over, across or
within any such dividing space barrier or section, except through an opening in
such physical barrier, dividing section or space or at a crossover or
intersection established by public authority. (1997 Code § 15-510)
7-3-10: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right. Upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1997 Code § 15-502)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicle On The Left:
      1.   The following requirements shall govern the overtaking and passing
of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to the following
limitations, exceptions and special requirements: (1997 Code § 15-503; amd.
2014 Code)
         a.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle; and (1997 Code § 15-503)
         b.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1997 Code §§ 15-
503, 15-505)
      2.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. The
overtaking vehicle must return to the roadway before coming within one hundred
feet (100') of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      3.   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, the driver of a
vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass
to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      4.   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires movement of his vehicle from one lane of traffic
to another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and
shall proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical
device. (1997 Code § 15-505)
   C.   When Overtaking On Right Is Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn
and has so properly signaled for a left turn; (1997 Code § 15-504)
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; and (1997 Code § 15-504; amd. 2014 Code)
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) more lines of moving vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1997 Code § 15-504)
   D.   No Passing Zones:
      1.   Specific No Passing Zones:
         a.   Established: No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left
side of the roadway under the following conditions:
            (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
            (2)   When traversing an intersection or railroad grade crossing;
or
            (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one
hundred feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
         b.   Violation: It is a violation to pass on the left by going to the
left of the center of the roadway across a double marked centerline for the
purpose of passing a vehicle traveling in the same direction.
         c.   Exemptions: This subsection D1 shall not apply upon a one- way
roadway. (1997 Code § 15-506)
      2.   Authority To Designate No Passing Zones; Compliance Required:
         a.   The Oklahoma department of transportation as regards state and
federal highways, and the mayor, subject to direction of the city council, as
regards all other streets, are authorized to determine those portions of a
highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of the roadway
would be especially hazardous and shall, by appropriate signs or markings on
the roadway, have the beginning and end of such zones indicated. When such
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
         b.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone,
no driver shall at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within such
no passing zone or on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark
such no passing zone through its length. (1997 Code § 15-507)
   E.   Passing Stopped School Bus:
      1.   Procedure: The driver of a vehicle upon any street or highway in the
city, upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus on which
the red loading signals are in operation and which has stopped for the purpose
of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren and other occupants, shall stop
the vehicle before it reaches the school bus. The driver may then proceed to
pass such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and prudent and with due
caution for the safety of such schoolchildren and other occupants after the
loading signals are deactivated.
      2.   Signs And Lights On Bus: Every school bus used for the
transportation of schoolchildren shall bear upon the front and rear thereof
plainly visible signs containing the words "School Bus" in letters not less
than eight inches (8") in height and, in addition, shall be equipped with
visual signs meeting the requirements of state law which shall be actuated by
the driver of the school bus whenever, but only whenever, such vehicle is
stopped on a street or highway for the purpose of receiving or discharging
schoolchildren.
      3.   Exemptions: The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway with
separate roadways need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is
on a different roadway or when upon a controlled access highway and the school
bus is stopped in a loading zone which is part of or adjacent to such street or
highway and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway. (1997
Code § 15-508)
7-3-11: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning Markers Or Indicators: The mayor, subject to direction by the
city council, is authorized to have placed markers, buttons or signs within or
adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections. Such course to be traveled shall be indicated.
When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications. (1997
Code § 15-902)
   B.   Designation Of Restricted Turns:
      1.   The mayor, subject to direction by the city council, may determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right turn,
left turn or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections.
The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours.
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn,
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (1997 Code § 15-903)
   C.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway;
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection; and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection; and
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (1997 Code § 15-901)
   D.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   Safe Turns; Signals Required:
         a.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection, a public or
private road, or a driveway unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the
roadway as required in subsection C of this section, or move right or left upon
a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal as
provided in subsection D1b of this section, in the event any other traffic may
be affected by such movement.
         b.   A signal of intention to turn right or left as required by law
shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet
(100') traveled by the vehicle before turning.
         c.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in subsection
D1b of this section to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when
there is opportunity to give such signal.
         d.   When any person is properly preparing for, attempting or
executing a left turn, as described in subsection D1a of this section, no other
person operating another vehicle immediately following the turning vehicle
shall pass or attempt to pass the turning vehicle to the left. Such other
person shall come to a complete stop if necessary at a safe distance behind the
person preparing for, attempting or executing the turn or may proceed to the
right of the turning vehicle as provided by subsection
7-3-10C of this chapter. (2014 Code)
      2.   Methods Of Signaling:
         a.   Signals By Hand, Arm Or Signal Device:
            (1)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise
provided in subsection D2a(2) of this section.
            (2)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with,
and required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle and to any combination of vehicles. (1997
Code § 15-906)
         b.   Method Of Giving Hand Signals: All signals herein required given
by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner:
            (1)   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
            (2)   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
            (3)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1997
Code § 15-907)
   E.   U-Turns:
      1.   Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall operate
a vehicle so as to turn more than ninety degrees (90°) on any street or
highway.
      2.   Exemptions: Persons excepted are those who can safely execute that
turn if at an intersection, but it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
make such a turn at any intersection:
         a.   Where traffic control signals are installed;
         b.   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the
latter's direction; or
         c.   Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and is
maintained. (1997 Code § 15-904)
7-3-12: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
to the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway. Such driver following too closely shall be deemed negligent. (1997
Code § 15-511)
   B.   Backing Vehicles: No vehicle shall be backed upon any street or highway
except for such distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle to enter the
proper driving lane from a parked position. Such backing shall be done only
after the driver of said vehicle has ascertained that such movement can be made
without endangering other traffic. (1997 Code § 15-534; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Roadways: No person shall drive
a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway except at such entrances
and exits as are established by public authority. (1997 Code § 15-512)
   D.   Obstructing Intersection Or Crosswalk: No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is
operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed. (1997 Code §§
15-530, 15-811)
   E.   Driving On Sidewalk: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a
sidewalk or within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway. (1997 Code § 15-531)
   F.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone. (1997 Code § 15-540; amd. 2014 Code)
   G.   Driving Through Service Drives: No vehicle shall be driven through any
service drive or parking area except for the purpose of attaining service or
merchandise or for the purpose of parking thereon. (1997 Code § 15-513)
   H.   Driving In Public Parks; Driving On Property Without Permission:
      1.   Parks And Public Property:
         a.   No person shall drive, operate or propel a motor vehicle or motor
driven cycle, including a motor scooter or motor driven bicycle, in any park,
public property, right of way or easement, within or owned by the city, except
upon established roadways or roadways designed for vehicular traffic. A vehicle
may be driven a reasonable distance from the roadway for the purpose of going
to and from a parking place.
         b.   No person shall drive, operate or propel a motor vehicle or motor
driven cycle past any barrier, sign or other device indicating that vehicular
traffic is prohibited in, upon or through any area upon which vehicular traffic
is prohibited.
      2.   Private Property; Permission Required: No person shall drive a motor
vehicle of any size on any private property unless the operator has obtained
the permission of the owner of the private property.
      3.   Emergency Vehicles Exempt: Emergency vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this subsection H. (1997 Code § 15-532)
7-3-13: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   Authority To Establish And Regulate Truck Traffic:
      1.   The city council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes
through the city for the use of trucks in general or trucks of particular kinds
or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles passing
through the city. (1997 Code § 15-1101)
      2.   The city council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe certain
streets and roads in the city for restricted travel and limit any truck having
more than two (2) axles from traveling on certain designated roads and streets.
Restrictions shall not apply to trucks making local deliveries, nor will it
apply to agricultural equipment or vehicles using the roads for agricultural
purposes. (1997 Code § 15-1101; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Signs Posted: The city shall see that appropriate and adequate signs
are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes.
   C.   Obedience To Signs Required:
      1.   When such signs are so erected and in place as provided in
subsection B of this section, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which
a route has been prescribed as provided herein, while passing through the city,
shall keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom except in case of
emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as
practicable also when driving within the city and not merely through the city.
      2.   When signs are erected and in place restricting trucks with two (2)
or more axles as provided in subsection A2 of this section, no driver of such
vehicle shall drive on the street so designated.
   D.   Map Of Routes Required: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out the truck routes designated by the city. (1997 Code § 15-1101)
7-3-14: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable except
when otherwise directed or escorted by a police officer. Each driver shall
follow the vehicle ahead as closely as is practicable and safe and at a speed
as designated by the escort for the procession. (1997 Code § 15-525)
   B.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. This subsection shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by police officers. (1997 Code § 15-524)
   C.   Identification Of Funeral Procession: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified by headlights turned on or by the
display upon the outside of each vehicle an identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the police department.
(1997 Code § 15-526)
7-3-15: RAILROAD TRAINS AND CROSSINGS:
   A.   Railroad Signs And Signals:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. This subsection A1 shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electrical or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing. (1997 Code § 15-543)
         e.   The tracks at the crossing are not clear.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed, or fail to obey the directions of a law
enforcement officer at the crossing.
      3.   The operator of a class A, B or C commercial vehicle not required to
stop at all railroad grade crossings, as prescribed in subsection B of this
section, shall slow down and check that all tracks are clear of an approaching
train. (1997 Code § 15-543; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Certain Vehicles To Stop: The driver of any "commercial motor vehicle",
as defined in 49 CFR section 390.5, shall comply with railroad crossing
provisions as prescribed in 49 CFR section 392.10. (2014 Code)
7-3-16: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The mayor, subject to direction by the city
council, if any, shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. (1997 Code § 15-528)
   B.   Driving On Play Streets: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles
having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then such
drivers shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (1997 Code § 15-529)
7-3-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (1997 Code § 15-538)
   B.   Unlawful Riding: No operator of a motor vehicle shall allow a passenger
to ride outside the passenger compartment of the vehicle on the streets of the
city; provided, this subsection shall not apply to persons so riding on private
property or for parades or special events nor shall this section apply to
passengers riding on the bed of a pickup truck. (2014 Code)
   C.   Toy Vehicles:
      1.   Use On Streets Prohibited Generally; Crossing Streets: No person
upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, skateboard, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street in a crosswalk. While so crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
subsection shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
authorized by ordinance. (1997 Code §§ 15-527, 15-1711)
      2.   Clinging To Vehicle: No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized
scooter, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or
himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1997 Code § 15-537; amd. 2014 Code)
7-3-18: RECKLESS, CARELESS, NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: It shall be deemed reckless driving for any person to
drive a motor vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property or in violation of the conditions outlined in
section
7-3-5 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 15-514; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Careless, Negligent Driving:
      1.   No person shall drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked, or
stop any vehicle:
         a.   In a careless manner;
         b.   In a negligent manner;
         c.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property;
or
         d.   In such a manner or condition as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets.
      2.   Every driver shall remain alert and give full attention to the safe
control and operation of his vehicle while it is in motion. Every driver of a
motor vehicle shall, upon stopping, or upon stopping and leaving the vehicle,
park the same in a careful and prudent manner and place so as not to interfere
with the operation of other vehicles or with pedestrians or other traffic.
Failure to comply with these requirements shall be deemed careless driving in
violation of this subsection B.
      3.   Any driver who engages in any activity or does any act while driving
that interferes with the safe operation and control of his vehicle, or who
continues to operate his vehicle when any other person riding thereon or
therein engages in any activity or does any act which interferes with his
operation thereof is guilty of careless driving.
      4.   A driver of a motor vehicle who collides with another vehicle or
with any person or property because of driving error or inattention is guilty
of careless driving. (1997 Code § 15-515)
7-3-19: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS:
Regarding driving under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, or combination thereof, in the city, the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 11-902, as amended, shall apply. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Method Of Parking
7-4-2: Operation Of Vehicle During And After Parking
7-4-3: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-4-4: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-5: Parking Restrictions On Specific Streets; Signs Posted
7-4-6: Parking In Areas Designated For Persons With Disabilities
7-4-7: Double Parking
7-4-8: Parking For Emergency Vehicles
7-4-9: Removing Enforcement Markings Prohibited
7-4-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Every vehicle stopped and parked
upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs
shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (1997 Code § 15-620)
      2.   A person engaging in the collection and disposal of solid waste or
recycling material, or both, as a business, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma solid waste management act, shall be exempt from the provisions of
subsection A of this section while in the performance of such activities. (2014
Code)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   The mayor, subject to direction of the city council, may determine
upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking will be permitted and
authority shall continue until changed permitting angle parking on any such
street or part of street and the angle parking markings or signs are amended.
      2.   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
      3.   Angle parking is not permitted on any state or federal aid highway
unless the state department of transportation has determined that the roadway
is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the
free movement of traffic. (1997 Code § 15-622)
   C.   Parking Within Marked Spaces: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it
within a parking space as thus marked and not on or over a line delineating a
space. (1997 Code § 15-623)
   D.   Width Of Roadway: No person shall park a vehicle upon a street or alley
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten
feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic. (1997 Code § 15-624)
   E.   Brakes Set; Motor Off; Wheels Turned:
      1.   The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively
setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the street. (1997 Code § 15-610)
      2.   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a
motor vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
Animals left or parked on the streets shall be securely hitched. (1997 Code §
15-621)
7-4-2: OPERATION OF VEHICLE DURING AND AFTER PARKING:
   A.   Starting Stopped Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (1997 Code § 15-533)
   B.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Door: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so. No person shall leave a door open on the side of a
motor vehicle available to moving traffic to load or unload passengers. (1997
Code § 15-535)
7-4-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid a conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance or the directions of
a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
(1997 Code § 15-601; amd. 2014 Code)
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection except in
a parking space officially marked;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the city indicates the different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station or, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking; and
      15.   At any other place prohibited by this code or law. (1997 Code § 15-
601)
   B.   No person engaging in the collection and disposal of solid waste or
recycling material, or both, as a business, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma solid waste management act, shall stop, stand or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in
any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   Within an intersection;
      3.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      4.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway underpass; or
      5.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (2014 Code)
   C.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is lawful. (1997 Code §
15-601)
7-4-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to prohibit the free movement of authorized
emergency vehicles or vehicular traffic.
      2.   Any vehicle parked upon the public streets or right of way shall be
parked so as not to obstruct the view of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal by oncoming traffic. (1997 Code § 15-603)
   B.   Parking On Left:
      1.   The mayor, subject to direction of the city council, may determine
when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any one-
way roadway and to have signs or marks placed giving notice thereof.
      2.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways
and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person
shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway
unless signs or marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. (1997 Code
§ 15-606)
   C.   Parking On Private Property: No person shall park a vehicle on the
private property of another without the consent of the owner of the property,
his agent or tenant. Any unoccupied vehicle parked in violation of this
subsection may, upon complaint of the property owner, his agent or tenant, be
removed and impounded by the police; and the vehicle owner must pay removal,
storage and impounding fees. (1997 Code § 15-607)
   D.   Parking In Private Spaces:
      1.   The parking, leaving or keeping of vehicles, either with or without
occupants, upon real property owned or leased for use of hotels or business
establishments as private parking places, without permission of the owner or
lessee, as the case may be, is hereby prohibited. Any vehicle parked or left in
violation of this subsection shall, upon the complaint of the owner or lessee
of the property, be removed from the premises by the police or on the order of
any police officer, at the expense of the owner of the vehicle. Such removal
may be accomplished by the police department or by a police department order
directing any person operating a towing service to pull the vehicle to his
garage or place of business, where it shall be held in the custody of the
police department until the towing charges and the fine and costs, if any, are
paid. (1997 Code § 15-612)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or park a motor vehicle onto
the driveway, parking area or any portion of the premises of any business or
commercial property if signs are posted. This subsection shall be enforced as
to all private property where a sign shall have been posted in a clearly
visible location stating substantially as follows:
PRIVATE PROPERTY. NO PARKING OR TRESPASSING.
(1997 Code § 15-608)
   E.   Alleys: No person shall at any time stop, stand or park a vehicle
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or traffic control device or in case of
emergency within any alley except for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise, with the maximum time permitted for
loading or unloading being one hour; however, such vehicle must be headed in
the proper direction in the alley and it must be parked on the right half of
one-way alleys. (1997 Code § 15-603; amd. 2014 Code)
   F.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park his
vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      2.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise;
      3.   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency; and
      4.   Selling merchandise or any other thing from vehicles without
appropriate permit or license from the city. (1997 Code § 15-604)
   G.   Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours: No person shall park a vehicle on
any street for a period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours. (1997 Code
§ 15-609)
7-4-5: PARKING RESTRICTIONS ON SPECIFIC STREETS; SIGNS POSTED:
The city council, by resolution, may establish parking time limits, or prohibit
parking, on designated streets by having appropriate signs placed thereon. When
such signs are in place, no person shall park a vehicle in violation thereof.
(1997 Code § 15-611)
7-4-6: PARKING IN AREAS DESIGNATED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle
in any parking space that is designated and posted as a reserved area for the
parking of a motor vehicle operated by or transporting a physically disabled
person unless such person has applied for and been issued a detachable placard
indicating physical disability under the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 15-112, and such placard is displayed as provided in said section 15-
112 or in rules adopted pursuant thereto, or has applied for and been issued a
physically disabled license plate pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1135.1 or 1135.2, and such license plate is displayed pursuant
to the provisions of the Oklahoma vehicle license and registration act.
      2.   It shall also be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor
vehicle, whether with or without a physically disabled placard or plate, in any
disabled parking space access aisle, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair loading/
unloading area or any portion thereof.
   B.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, the person shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00). Provided,
any person cited for a first offense of a violation of this section who has
displayed a placard which has expired pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
15-112, subsection D4 or D5, shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge and
shall not be required to pay the fine or court costs if the person presents to
the court, within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the citation, a notice
from the state department of public safety that the person has obtained a valid
placard pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112,
subsection D. Fines collected pursuant to this section shall be distributed as
follows:
         a.   Eighty percent (80%) to the general fund of the city, subject to
the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-115, subsection C; and
         b.   Twenty percent (20%) to a dedicated fund established by the state
department of public safety for the development, implementation and maintenance
of a system for the enforcement of the disability parking provisions of the
state.
      2.   In addition, vehicles unlawfully parked in violation of this section
shall be subject to immediate tow by a licensed tow truck operator at the
request of the landowner or a duly appointed agent of the landowner, at the
request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to or move his vehicle, at
the request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to the area blocked by
the unlawfully parked vehicle, or at the request of a city police officer. The
owner of any vehicle unlawfully parked in violation of this section shall pay
any and all reasonable and necessary costs associated with towing and storage
of the vehicle. (2014 Code)
7-4-7: DOUBLE PARKING:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: No vehicle shall be double parked on any street
within the city limits except in compliance with the direction of a police
officer, or traffic control device, or except when necessary to avoid conflict
with another vehicle. (1997 Code § 15-625)
   B.   Delivery Vehicles: Delivery vehicles, either loading or unloading, may
double park in the right hand lane while in the process of loading or unloading
and making delivery to local business establishments; provided, that the driver
of the delivery vehicle shall keep a lookout for cars and vehicles needing or
attempting to move away from the curb and shall move his delivery vehicle as
soon as possible to permit the parked vehicles to be moved. Such double parking
shall be permitted only so long as both traffic lanes are not blocked, and the
vehicle so parked is making use of proper caution or hazard signals to alert
other motorists. (1997 Code § 15-625; amd. 2014 Code)
7-4-8: PARKING FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Areas Designated; Parking Restricted: The mayor, subject to any
directions which the city council may give, is authorized to designate streets
or portions thereof where parking is limited to authorized emergency vehicles.
When signs are in place giving notice of such limitation, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park any vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle,
upon any such street or portion thereof. (1997 Code § 15-614)
   B.   Fire Lanes: The mayor, or his authorized representative, when the
public safety shall require, is authorized and directed to prohibit parking
upon private property used for shopping centers, schools, hospitals, nursing
homes, restaurants and places of public entertainment within zones to be
clearly designated and defined by appropriate sign, when the same is necessary
for the establishment of fire lanes to avoid obstruction of free passage and
access. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except an authorized
emergency vehicle, within such prohibited fire lanes, except on direction and
by authority of a police officer. (1997 Code § 15-613)
7-4-9: REMOVING ENFORCEMENT MARKINGS PROHIBITED:
No person, with intent to extend the time during which a motor vehicle can be
parked at a time restricted parking space, shall remove, erase, obliterate,
smudge or otherwise delete or disfigure any chalk or any other mark or symbol
used by authorized employees of the city in connection with the enforcement of
motor vehicle parking restrictions. (1997 Code § 15-605)
CHAPTER 5
LOADING AND UNLOADING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Authority To Designate Loading Zones
7-5-2: Parking In Passenger Loading Zones
7-5-3: Parking In Freight Loading Zones
7-5-4: Permit To Back To Curb
7-5-5: Public Carrier Stops
7-5-1: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES:
The mayor, subject to direction of the city council, may determine the location
of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and
maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable. (1997 Code § 15-1201)
7-5-2: PARKING IN PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed three (3) minutes. (1997 Code § 15-1202)
7-5-3: PARKING IN FREIGHT LOADING ZONES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length
of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1997 Code § 15-1203)
7-5-4: PERMIT TO BACK TO CURB:
   A.   The mayor is authorized to issue special permits to permit the backing
of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or
materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
   B.   Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. (1997 Code § 15-1204)
   C.   The chief of police may revoke such permits at any time. (1997 Code §
15-1204; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any permit issued under this section. (1997 Code
§ 15-1204)
7-5-5: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS:
   A.   Authority To Designate Public Carrier Stops: The mayor, subject to
direction of the city council, may establish bus stops and stands, taxicab
stands and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such
public streets in such places and in such manner as it determines to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop, bus stand,
taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs. (1997
Code § 15-1301)
   B.   Bus Stops:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated,
except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic. (1997 Code § 15-1302)
   C.   Taxicab Stands: The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such
vehicle upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated. This subsection shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (1997 Code § 15-1303)
   D.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed; except, that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone. (1997 Code § 15-1304)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-6-2: Drivers To Exercise Care
7-6-3: Right Of Way
7-6-4: Pedestrians Crossing Roadways
7-6-5: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
7-6-6: Soliciting Prohibited
7-6-7: Pedestrians With Disabilities
7-6-1: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in
this chapter. At all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1997 Code § 15-
1701)
   B.   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1997 Code § 15-1707)
7-6-2: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE CARE:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway,
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person upon a roadway. (1997 Code § 15-1710)
7-6-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger. (1997 Code § 15-1702)
7-6-4: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Crossings: Between adjacent intersections at which traffic
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk. (1997 Code § 15-1706)
   B.   Leaving Curb Suddenly: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. (1997 Code § 15-1702)
   C.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalk: Pedestrians shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks. (1997 Code § 15-1703)
   D.   Crossing At Right Angles: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any
place other than by route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route
to the opposite curb except in a crosswalk. (1997 Code § 15-1704)
   E.   Pedestrians To Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an intersection shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   This subsection E shall not apply under the conditions stated in
subsection A of this section when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at
certain designated places. (1997 Code § 15-1705)
7-6-5: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon an
adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking
along and upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1997 Code § 15-1708)
7-6-6: SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1997 Code § 15-1709)
7-6-7: PEDESTRIANS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
with clearly visible disabilities.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to display any item designated
for use by those persons with disabilities unless the person requires such use.
(2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Compliance With State Law
7-7-2: Certain Vehicles Prohibited; Loads
7-7-2-1: Permit For Vehicles With Protrusions On Wheels
7-7-3: Obstruction To Driver's View And Driving Mechanism
7-7-4: Windshield Wipers
7-7-5: Noise Control; Vehicle Emissions
7-7-6: Child Restraint
7-7-7: Seat Belts
7-7-8: Vehicle Size, Weight And Load
7-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by 47 Oklahoma Statutes. No person shall operate a vehicle upon a
street of the city which is not equipped as required by state law. No person
shall fail to use such equipment in the manner required by the state law, or
use it in a manner prohibited by state law. (1997 Code § 15-301)
7-7-2: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface
of a street shall be driven or moved on any street. Vehicles equipped with
metal tires or lugs are specifically prohibited. (1997 Code § 15-401)
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or
so loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the city
and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
   C.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   D.   No person shall operate on any street any vehicle with any load unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose materials susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
such load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
   E.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded with livestock, poultry
or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural products; however, any
such trucks shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent such livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom. (1997 Code § 15-402)
7-7-2-1: PERMIT FOR VEHICLES WITH PROTRUSIONS ON WHEELS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, pull or move, otherwise than by
hauling, upon the paved streets of the city, any tractor or other vehicle with
lugs, flanges or other protruding parts upon the surface of the wheels of the
same without first obtaining a written permit from the street commissioner.
Such permit shall not be granted unless all lugs, flanges or other protruding
parts upon the surface of the wheels are first removed, or unless a base or
board is laid upon the paved street for the wheels of such vehicle to run upon
so as to keep the wheels from coming in contact with the pavement and so as to
entirely protect the pavement from the wheels. (1997 Code § 15-403; amd. 2014
Code)
7-7-3: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW AND DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1997 Code § 15-536)
   C.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, other
nontransparent material, or debris, including, but not limited to, snow, ice,
or frost, upon the front windshield or the side wings, or side or rear windows
or suspend any sign, poster, object, or other material from the interior of the
vehicle which materially obstructs, obscures, or impairs the driver's clear
view of the roadway ahead or to either side or of any intersecting roadway.
(1997 Code § 15-304; amd. 2014 Code)
7-7-4: WINDSHIELD WIPERS:
The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with an electric
windshield wiper mechanism for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the
windshield. Every windshield wiper blade and windshield wiper mechanism upon a
motor vehicle shall be maintained in good working order. When replacing the
wiper blade, the length of the blade shall not be reduced from the
manufacturer's specification. (1997 Code § 15-304; amd. 2014 Code)
7-7-5: NOISE CONTROL; VEHICLE EMISSIONS:
   A.   Noise Control:
      1.   Every vehicle shall be equipped, maintained, and operated so as to
prevent excessive or unusual noise.
      2.   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler or
other effective noise suppressing system in good working order and in constant
operation, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device.
      3.   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in any
manner which will amplify or increase the noise or sound emitted louder than
that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
   B.   Vehicle Emissions: The engine and power mechanism of every motor
vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive
fumes or smoke or both. (2014 Code)
7-7-6: CHILD RESTRAINT:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under six (6) years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways or streets of the city shall
provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system. For purposes of this section, "child passenger restraint
system" means an infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the
federal standards as set by 49 CFR section 571.213.
      2.   Children at least six (6) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt.
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons, are unable
to be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
      5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
subsection, "back seat" shall include all seats located behind the front seat
of a vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided
further, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the
weight requirements of this subsection if, at the request of any law
enforcement officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the
officer with a written statement, verified by the parent or legal guardian,
that the child weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
   C.   Legal Proceedings:
      1.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall be admissible as
evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the plaintiff in
such action or proceeding is a child under sixteen (16) years of age.
      2.   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages.
   D.   Nonliability Of Child Passenger Safety Technicians: A person who is
certified as a child passenger safety technician and who, in good faith,
provides inspection, adjustment, or educational services regarding child
passenger restraint systems shall not be liable for civil damages resulting
from any act or omission in providing such services, other than acts or
omissions constituting gross negligence or wilful or wanton misconduct.
   E.   Penalties: Any person convicted of violating subsection A1 or A2 of
this section shall be punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall
pay all court costs thereof. Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the
state department of public safety restricted revolving fund and used by the
Oklahoma highway safety office to promote the use of child passenger restraint
systems as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-1113. This fine shall be
suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan
of a child passenger restraint system. Provided, the state department of public
safety shall not assess points to the driving record of any person convicted of
a violation of this section. (2014 Code)
7-7-7: SEAT BELTS:
   A.   Requirements For Front Seat Passengers: Every operator and front seat
passenger of a class A commercial motor vehicle, class B commercial motor
vehicle, class C commercial motor vehicle or a passenger vehicle operated in
the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49
CFR section 571.208. For the purposes of this section, "passenger vehicle"
shall mean a class D motor vehicle, but shall not include trucks, truck-
tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles, or a
vehicle used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant
to the provisions of state law.
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   The state commissioner of public safety, upon application from a
person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt system
supported by written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed
pursuant to state law may issue to the person an exemption from the provisions
of this section. The exemption shall be in the form of a restriction appearing
on the driver's license of the person and shall remain in effect until the
expiration date of the driver's license. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to prevent the person from applying for another exemption as provided
in this section. The issuance of an attestation by a physician and the
subsequent issuance of an exemption by the commissioner, in good faith, shall
not give rise to, nor shall the physician and the state thereby incur, any
liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise, to any person injured by reason
of failure of the person to wear a safety seat belt system.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   C.   Points For Violations Not Applicable: The state department of public
safety shall not record or assess points for violations of this section on any
license holder's traffic record maintained by said department.
   D.   Penalty: Fine and court costs for violating the provisions of this
section shall not exceed twenty dollars ($20.00). (2014 Code)
7-7-8: VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
   A.   No person shall drive or convey through any street or bridge any
vehicle the width, height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that
authorized by state law, or which vehicle exceeds the width, height, length,
weight or load limits established by the city, county or state as indicated by
appropriate signs erected on the street, road or bridge.
   B.   The maximum load limit on all residential streets within the city is
eight (8) tons. (1997 Code § 15-303)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES, ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES, MOTORCYCLES,
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS AND MOPEDS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Application Of Provisions
7-8-2: State Traffic Laws Apply
7-8-3: Riding On Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters, Motor Driven Cycles And
Mopeds
7-8-4: Time Of Operation Restricted
7-8-5: Speed Restrictions
7-8-6: Operation By Persons Under Sixteen
7-8-7: Equipment Required
7-8-8: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-8-9: Riding On Bicycles
7-8-10: Operation Of Bicycles
7-8-11: Parking Bicycles
7-8-12: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-8-13: Violation; Penalty
7-8-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to "bicycles", "electric
assisted bicycles", "motor driven cycles", "motorcycles", "motorized scooters"
and "mopeds" as said terms are defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes, as the same may
be amended or superseded.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any
path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (2014 Code)
7-8-2: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
   A.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of any
vehicle regulated by this title except as to such regulations which, by their
nature, can have no application to bicycles.
   B.   No person operating any vehicle covered by this chapter shall pass
other vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction ("lane
splitting"). (2014 Code)
7-8-3: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTORIZED SCOOTERS, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES AND
MOPEDS:
Any person operating a motorcycle, motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or
moped shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and
such operator shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride
on the vehicle unless it is designed to carry more than one person, in which
event, a passenger may ride only upon the permanent and regular seat if
designed for two (2) persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator. (2014 Code)
7-8-4: TIME OF OPERATION RESTRICTED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven cycle or a motorized
scooter on a street or highway in the city during a time when state law
prohibits the operation of such vehicle. (2014 Code)
7-8-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate any motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motorized
scooter or moped at a speed greater than the speed limit provided by ordinance
of the city for automobiles or other motor vehicles nor at a speed greater than
the speed limit regularly posted for automobiles or other motor vehicles within
the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   No person shall operate any motor driven cycle at a speed greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   C.   No person shall operate any motorized scooter:
      1.   At a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour; or
      2.   On any roadway with a posted speed limit of greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour.
   D.   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions then existing. (2014 Code)
7-8-6: OPERATION BY PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN:
   A.   The operation of motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motorized scooters
and mopeds within the corporate limits of the city is prohibited for persons
under sixteen (16) years of age between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and four thirty o'clock (4:30) A.M.
   B.   In no event nor at any time shall an operator under the age of sixteen
(16) years drive a motorcycle on a street or highway which has a minimum speed
limit established and posted.
   C.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall operate any motorcycle,
motorized scooter, motor driven cycle or moped having an engine size greater
than two hundred fifty (250) cc. (2014 Code)
7-8-7: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Motorcycles, Motorized Scooters And Mopeds: The following equipment
shall be required on all motorcycles, motorized scooters and mopeds being
operated and driven in the city:
      1.   Rearview Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his or her vehicle.
      2.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects; except, that in lieu of such windshield, the
operator may wear goggles or a face shield of sufficient material and design to
protect his or her eyes from foreign objects.
      3.   Brakes And Brake Light:
         a.   All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One means shall be
effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel, and one means shall apply the
brakes to the rear wheel.
         b.   All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade or color
between red or amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of either brake system described in subsection A3a of this section.
      4.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
      5.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
      6.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the rear, and such
lights required by this subsection shall be illuminated whenever such vehicles
are in motion.
      7.   Muffler; Cutout: It shall be an offense to operate any motorized
vehicle covered under this section with the exhaust system modified so that
motor noise is increased greater than that of the original muffler provided by
the manufacturer of the vehicle.
      8.   Headgear: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate
or ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall
consist of lining, padding and chinstraps and be of a design so as not to
distort the view of the driver.
   B.   Bicycles:
      1.   Lights And Reflector: Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from distances of fifty
feet to three hundred feet (50' - 300') to the rear when directly in front of
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
      2.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake of sufficient
braking force that the operator is able to make the braked wheel skid on dry,
level, clean pavement. (2014 Code)
7-8-8: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to all
other vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (2014 Code)
7-8-9: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped by the manufacturer.
   C.   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars. (2014 Code)
7-8-10: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Roadways:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as near as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of
the roadway except under any of the following situations:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction.
         b.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
         c.   When reasonably necessary to avoid hazardous conditions and while
exercising due care, including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Fixed or moving objects;
            (2)   Parked or moving vehicles;
            (3)   Pedestrians or animals;
            (4)   Surface hazards; or
            (5)   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right hand curb
or edge of the roadway.
      2.   Any person riding a bicycle upon a one-way street or highway with
two (2) or more marked lanes of travel may ride as near as practicable to the
left hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
      3.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the normal and
reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single
lane.
   B.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   C.   Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the city limits in a manner that is unsafe or disrespectful to the
rights of pedestrians. The city manager is authorized to have signs erected on
any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any
person, and when such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   D.   Use Of Bicycle Paths: Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not
use the roadway if required by local, municipal or county ordinances. (2014
Code)
7-8-11: PARKING BICYCLES:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street or highway other than upon the
roadway against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle, or against a building, or at the curb in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2014 Code)
7-8-12: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
The parent or legal guardian of any child, or the guardian of any ward, shall
not authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (2014 Code)
7-8-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who commits any act forbidden, or fails to perform any act required,
in this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an offense punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The conviction for the violation of any offense in this
chapter shall not be recorded on the driving record of the person. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
7-9-1: Administration And Enforcement Of Provisions
7-9-2: Direction Of Traffic; Obedience Required
7-9-3: Parking Violations
7-9-4: Impoundment Of Vehicles
7-9-5: Permitting Violations
7-9-6: Violations Prohibited; Penalty
7-9-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   All traffic in the city shall be controlled by the ordinances of the
city and the laws of the state relating thereto. (1997 Code § 15-1802)
   B.   It is the duty of all city police officers to enforce the traffic
regulations of the city and the state, to make arrests for traffic violations,
and to investigate accidents. (1997 Code § 15-1801)
7-9-2: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Direction Of Traffic:
      1.   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned
by the chief of police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
mechanical signals or signs in conformance with the provisions of this title.
      2.   In the event of a fire or other "emergency" as defined in section
7-1-4 of this title, or other unusual traffic conditions, to expedite traffic
or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department or fire department
may direct and take control of traffic as conditions may require and, as near
as practicable, follow the general provisions of this title.
      3.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat
or in the immediate vicinity. (1997 Code § 15-1801)
   B.   Obedience To Police And Fire Officials: No person shall wilfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or
fire department official. (1997 Code § 15-1804)
   C.   Direction By Unauthorized Person: No person shall direct or attempt to
direct traffic except police officers and other officers authorized by the
city. (1997 Code § 15-1802)
7-9-3: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Prima Facie Proof: In any prosecution charging a violation of any law
or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any
such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of such violation, the registered owner of such
vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred. (1997 Code § 15-615)
   B.   Citation Tags: In cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or
stopped in violation of this title, police officers and other persons appointed
by the chief of police shall affix citation tags to the vehicles. A violator of
any provision of this title who has been given a citation tag and fails to
appear in accordance with the instructions of such tag shall be subject to a
separate offense as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 15-2002)
7-9-4: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Purpose And Effect: The impoundment of vehicles under authority of this
title shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of city streets and thoroughfares
from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1997 Code § 15-1901)
   B.   Authority To Impound: Members of the police department are hereby
authorized, within the authority granted by subsection A of this section, to
impound vehicles under the provisions of this title. No impoundment shall be
valid unless made under order of an authorized police officer. (1997 Code § 15-
1902)
      1.   Disabled Vehicles: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may
be impounded under the following circumstances:
         a.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
         b.   If left unattended longer than forty eight (48) hours on the
shoulder of any highway; or
         c.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically
incapacitated to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or
removal. (1997 Code § 15-1903)
      2.   Vehicle Creating Traffic Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded. (1997 Code § 15-1904)
      3.   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle:
         a.   An unattended vehicle trespassing on property of another may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this subsection B3.
         b.   If the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a
complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner's or legal
occupant's property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing.
         c.   Upon filing the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe a trespass has
occurred, the property owner or legal occupant of the property may cause the
vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage. The police
department may also cause such vehicle to be impounded where the police
department determines that the location of the vehicle constitutes a threat to
the public health or safety or is a public traffic hazard. (1997 Code § 15-
1905)
      4.   Vehicle Blocking Fire Exit Or Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked
in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit, or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be impounded. (1997 Code § 15-1906)
      5.   Vehicle Unattended Or Disabled: Any unattended vehicle illegally
parked in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection with the person in charge of the vehicle being present shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing. (1997 Code § 15-1907)
      6.   Stolen Vehicle: Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police, the
vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment, and the
registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the place
of impoundment by the police department as soon as possible. (1997 Code § 15-
1908; amd. 2014 Code)
      7.   Arrest And Detention Of Driver: Whenever the driver or person in
charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody and
detained by police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle
unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded. (1997 Code §
15-1909)
      8.   Unlicensed Vehicle: Any vehicle on public roads, streets or other
public places which does not have a current state license tag may be impounded
by the police if expired by ninety (90) days or more. (1997 Code § 15-1910;
amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Place Of Impoundment: Every vehicle that is impounded under the
provisions of this section shall be removed to the nearest garage or place of
safekeeping designated by the chief of police, and to no other place. (1997
Code § 15-1911)
   D.   Duration Of Impoundment; Release Of Vehicles:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this section shall be stored and held until an order for its
release is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or
municipal court or other proper police officer.
      2.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned
upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
      3.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until
all fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (1997 Code § 15-1912)
7-9-5: PERMITTING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to authorize or knowingly permit a motor
vehicle owned by him, or under his control, to be driven upon any street in the
city by any person who is not authorized to drive a motor vehicle under the
laws of the state, or to be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of
any provision of this title. (1997 Code §§ 15-104, 15-523)
   B.   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle registered in
his name to be driven, or to stand, or to be parked in violation of any
provision of this title. (1997 Code § 15-2001)
   C.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any provision
of this title. (1997 Code §§ 15-105, 15-2001)
7-9-6: VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in
this title. Any person who violates any provision of this title, or performs
any unlawful act as defined in this title, or fails to perform any act required
in this title is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 15-2001)
CHAPTER 10
UTILITY VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, AND SIMILAR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Special Provisions
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV): A vehicle powered by an internal combustion
engine manufactured and used exclusively for off highway use traveling on four
(4) or more low pressure tires, and having a seat designed to be straddled by
the operator and handlebars for steering.
GO-KART: Any four (4) wheeled internal combustion or electrical vehicle that is
powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable storage
batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed may be up
to thirty (30) miles per hour designed primarily for operation on a go-kart
track or course and which is not registered with the State of Oklahoma.
   GOLF CART: Any four (4) wheeled internal combustible or electrical vehicle
that is powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable
storage batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed is
greater than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than twenty five (25)
miles per hour designed primarily for the operation on a recreational golf
course which is not registered with the State of Oklahoma.
   LOW SPEED ELECTRICAL VEHICLE (LSEV): Any four (4) wheeled electrical vehicle
that is powered by an electric motor that draws current from rechargeable
storage batteries or other sources of electrical current and whose top speed is
greater than twenty (20) miles per hour but not greater than twenty five (25)
miles per hour and is manufactured in compliance with the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration standards for low speed vehicles in 49 CFR
571.500. Also, any three (3) or four (4) wheeled electrical powered chair or
scooter type vehicles used by handicapped persons which generally have top
speeds less than twenty (20) miles per hour which may or may not be in
compliance with National Highway Traffic Safety Administration standards.
   MAINTENANCE UTILITY VEHICLE: A vehicle powered by either an internal
combustion engine or electrical vehicle that is powered by an electric motor
that draws current from rechargeable storage batteries or other sources of
electrical current and whose top speed is greater than twenty (20) miles per
hour but not greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour utilized for
transportation of City employees or equipment during routine maintenance of
City owned property or facilities.
   MINITRUCK: A foreign manufactured import or domestic manufactured vehicle
powered by an internal combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of
one thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters or less, which is sixty seven inches
(67") or less in width, with an unladen dry weight of three thousand four
hundred (3,400) pounds or less, traveling on four (4) or more tires, having a
top speed of approximately fifty five (55) miles per hour, equipped with a bed
or compartment for hauling, and having an enclosed passenger cab.
   UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV): A vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine,
manufactured and used exclusively for off highway use, equipped with seating
for two (2) or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four (4) or more
wheels. (Ord. 2017-2, 4-15-2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
7-10-2: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the definitions of the terms "motor vehicle" and
"motorcycle", contained in the Motor Vehicle License and Registration Act, 47
Oklahoma Statutes, 1975, section 562, motor driven cycles, known and commonly
referred to as "minibikes", "trail bikes", all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and
other similar trade names, shall not be permitted to be operated on the streets
or highways of the City of New Cordell.
   B.   Go-karts, power lawn mowers and other motor vehicles which are
manufactured principally for use off the streets and highways shall not be
permitted to be operated on the streets or highways of the City of New Cordell.
However, this shall not prohibit limited occasional necessary movement of such
go-karts, power lawn mowers and other such vehicles on City streets, and shall
not prohibit the use of minibikes and trail bikes used by participants in
parades.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting farm
vehicles from using the streets or highways.
   D.   Golf carts, UTVs, LSEVs and small vehicles commonly known as minitrucks
are prohibited from operating on Federal and State highways and City streets
within the limits of the City of New Cordell, except as follows:
      1.   When the UTV, LSEV, golf cart or minitruck is operated on a City
street by a person sixteen (16) years of age or older and possesses a valid
operator license during the daylight hours only. Daylight hours are determined
to be one-half (1/2) hour after sunrise and one-half (1/2) hour before sunset
as listed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
      2.   UTVs, LSEVs, golf carts and minitrucks may operate on a Federal or
State highway only if making a perpendicular (90 degree) crossing of a Federal
or State highway located within the limits of the City of New Cordell.
      3.   Every person operating a UTV, LSEV, minitruck or golf cart upon a
street shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State
declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances
of this City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special
regulations in this section and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
      4.   All golf carts, go-karts, power lawn mowers, minitrucks, LSEVs, ATVs
and UTVs while operating within the limits of the City of New Cordell shall
have a slow moving vehicle emblem which shall be affixed to the rear portion of
the aforementioned vehicle. Golf carts and UTVs shall be equipped with a lap
safety belt for each occupant of the golf cart or UTV. Passengers under the age
of six (6) years old are restricted from riding upon such golf cart or UTV,
unless the driver of the golf cart or UTV is twenty one (21) years of age or
older. LSEVs shall be exempt from the lap safety belt requirement due to the
lower speeds of such vehicles.
      5.   All vehicles subject to this chapter while operating in the limits
of the City of New Cordell shall be restricted from operating on a street or
highway with a posted speed limit greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour
and shall not be driven at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per
hour.
      6.   No vehicle subject to this chapter may be operated on City streets
during periods of rain, snow, or other inclement weather.
   E.   City owned maintenance utility vehicle(s) may be operated anywhere
within the City limits of the City of New Cordell while performing authorized
City functions. Operation of the maintenance utility vehicle on any street or
highway with speed limits posted greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour
must be authorized by the City Administrator or his/her designee:
      1.   Permitted only while performing specific tasks.
      2.   Required to be done during normal business hours (daytime only).
      3.   The restriction of use will be determined by the City Administrator
or his/her designee.
   F.   All golf cart, LSEV or UTV vehicles operated on any City street of the
City of New Cordell will be required to:
      1.   Register the golf cart, minitruck, LSEV or UTV with the Police
Department.
      2.   Purchase a City permit for such operation at a rate established by
resolution of the City Council. All permits shall expire on December 31st of
the year in which they are purchased, and the cost of initial purchase shall be
prorated for any period of less than twelve (12) months for which that permit
will apply. Subsequent permit purchases for the same golf cart, LSEV or UTV
shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the established rate, regardless of when
purchased.
      3.   Golf carts, UTVs, LSEVs and minitrucks operating on City streets and
highways must carry liability insurance issued through a licensed insurance
company unless they are uninsurable because they cannot be classified as an
insurable vehicle.
   G.   Violation of this section shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code and may include fines, the revocation, suspension,
cancellation or denial of registration under the provisions of this chapter and
code provision, upon conviction by the Municipal Court. (Ord. 2017-2, 4-15-
2019, eff. 4-15-2019)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Excavations   2
Parades And Public Events   3
Parks And Recreational Facilities   4
City Public Library   5
City Cemetery   6
Urban Forests Conservation And Management   7
Reservoir Fish And Wildlife Management
And Public Use Area   8
Railroads   9
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-2: Display Or Sale Of Goods And Merchandise
8-1-3: Projections Into, Overhanging Public Ways
8-1-4: Mud And Water Drainage
8-1-5: Hazardous Sidewalks
8-1-6: Playing On Streets
8-1-7: Injury To Trees And Shrubs
8-1-8: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way by leaving or permitting to remain thereon
or therein any vehicle, object, material, structure, fence or other obstruction
of any kind. (1997 Code § 14-101)
      2.   a. It is unlawful to:
            (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; or
            (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
         b.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in subsection A2a of this section, a police officer or any law
enforcement officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such
conditions and to move on or disburse, or to remove any obstructions. Any
person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation
of this subsection A2. (1997 Code § 14-102)
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to place any object, vehicle or
structure on or so near to any street right of way such that same constitutes a
traffic or safety hazard for either pedestrians or vehicular traffic traveling
on or onto the street. (1997 Code § 14-109)
      4.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to erect, construct,
locate, maintain or allow to remain on his property any sign, fence or
structure within an area known as the "sight triangle", which is defined as
that area formed by measuring from the point of intersection of two (2) lot
lines a distance of thirty feet (30') along each lot line and connecting the
points so established to create a triangle with sides abutting the street right
of way. Any sign, fence or structure placed or located in the area is hereby
determined to be a public nuisance, and the city is authorized to cause the
structure, fence or sign to be removed. (1997 Code § 14-109; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Elimination Of Obstructions:
      1.   The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the city upon which any
trees, shrubs or plants are growing, or upon which any obstruction has been
placed, shall remove such trees, shrubs, plants or obstruction, or parts
thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a traffic hazard by
obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the streets of the city to
the extent that the driver is unable to observe the approach of other vehicles
on streets and alleys and at intersections.
      2.   a. The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. If premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
         b.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses or neglects to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in this subsection B, after receiving five (5)
days' notice from the city to do so, is guilty of an offense against the city.
In addition to any fine or punishment as an offense, the city may act to abate
the nuisance. Every day that the owner or occupant fails, refuses or neglects
to trim such trees or shrubbery after the expiration of the five (5) days'
notice shall be a separate offense.
   C.   Definition: The definition of streets, sidewalks and public ways shall
mean streets, sidewalks and public ways owned by the city. All references in
Title 8, Chapter 1 to streets, sidewalks and public ways shall be to city owned
streets, city owned sidewalks and city owned public ways. (1997 Code § 14-103;
amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-4-2019)
8-1-2: DISPLAY OR SALE OF GOODS AND MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in this code, it is unlawful
for any person to display any goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or to sell
the same, on any street, alley or sidewalk owned by the city, or from parking
any vehicle thereon, in the corporate limits of the city. Each separate sale or
offer to sell in violation hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Sales From Vehicles: Any vehicle parked on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks owned by the city for the purpose of making merchandise available for
sale by the methods prohibited by this section shall be promptly moved by the
driver upon order of the police department of the city, and if not promptly
moved, the same shall be towed from such location upon order of the police
department, and the driver or custodian of the vehicle shall also be deemed
guilty of an offense and subject to fine.
   C.   Separate Offenses: In each instance where an individual is guilty of an
offense under the provisions of this section, the person or company for whom
such individual is acting in the capacity of an agent or employee shall be
guilty of a separate offense. (1997 Code § 14-104; amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-4-
2019)
8-1-3: PROJECTIONS INTO, OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally; Permit Required When Permitted: It is unlawful
for any person to erect or construct, or cause to be erected or constructed,
any cellar or basement way, stairway, door, awning post, canopy or any other
kind of structure projecting into, upon or over, and adjoining any street or
sidewalk within the city; except, that the building official may, in his
discretion, authorize the same to be done, where the public health, safety and
necessity demand, by granting a permit therefor. (1997 Code § 14-105)
   B.   Conditions Of Permit; Nonliability Of City: Upon the granting of a
permit under this section, conditions as to the erection of the structure
through, upon or over any street or sidewalk may be fixed by the city, and a
contract shall be entered into as to the maintenance of the structure and as an
indemnifying agreement secured, indemnifying and saving the city harmless from
any loss, costs or damage by reason of the structure projecting into, upon or
over, and adjoining any street or sidewalk within the limits of the city. (1997
Code § 14-105; amd. 2014 Code)
8-1-4: MUD AND WATER DRAINAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to wash or drain into any street, alley or other
public place in the city any water from his house or premises or to allow any
filth or water to escape from his premises upon any of the places above
mentioned or upon property contiguous thereto. No auto or other vehicle shall
be washed at any place within the city where the water, dirt, or other
substances removed therefrom will drain into any street or sidewalk of the
city. (1997 Code § 14-107)
8-1-5: HAZARDOUS SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Hazardous Conditions Generally: It is unlawful for the owner or
occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the
sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become a hazard to
persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
   B.   Obstructions: It is unlawful for any person to allow any obstruction of
any kind to accumulate in the sidewalk in front of his premises. All owners and
occupants of property are required to keep their premises and the sidewalks,
gutters, streets and alleys adjacent thereto free from weeds, trash and all
obstructions and to remove such weeds, trash and obstructions from such places.
   C.   Refuse Deposits: It is unlawful to deposit, throw or sweep into or upon
a street, alley, parking or sidewalk of the city any trash, weeds, tree
trimmings, dirt or any other refuse of any kind. (1997 Code § 14-110)
8-1-6: PLAYING ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, game or amusement or to
play in, on or across the main traveled portion of any sidewalk, street, avenue
or alley of the city except as may be authorized by ordinance. (1997 Code § 14-
106)
8-1-7: INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the city. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care
and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1997 Code § 14-108)
8-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. (1997 Code § 14-111)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Street Cuts
8-2-2: Curb Cuts
8-2-3: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: STREET CUTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to cut the pavement or
curb in or on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues or alleys in the city for
the purpose of laying pipe or other connections for utilities, or to cut or
otherwise injure the pavement or curb on any of the streets, sidewalks, avenues
or alleys for any purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor as provided by
this section. (1997 Code § 14-201)
   B.   Application For Permit: Every person who desires to lay pipes or lines
for the purpose of making and preparing any connections to utilities which will
require the cutting of the pavement to make such connections shall make
application for and procure from the city a written permit to cut such pavement
or curb and make such installations for the proposed purpose or otherwise. No
person shall have any right or authority to construct or install any pipes or
lines or otherwise cut the pavement or curbs without first having secured such
permit. (1997 Code § 14-202)
   C.   Permit Fee: Any person desiring to cut the pavement or other hard
surface on any street or sidewalk in the city shall pay a fee for the permit.
The fee shall be in such amount as set by the city council by motion or
resolution. (1997 Code § 14-203)
   D.   Notification Of Completion Of Work: All permittees, when they have
completed the work for which such cut has been made, shall notify the city of
the completion of such work in order that the same may be inspected and
approved. (1997 Code § 14-204)
   E.   Timely Completion: Any permittee cutting pavement by virtue of a permit
as authorized herein shall perform the excavation or other work without delay
or interruption. (1997 Code § 14-205)
8-2-2: CURB CUTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It is unlawful for any person to cut,
break, tear out or remove the curbing or any part thereof along the streets in
the city for any purpose except in accordance with this section. Any person
desiring to cut any curbing in the city shall first obtain a permit from the
city before doing so.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be in writing
to the city and shall state the time and place that the applicant desires to
break the curbing. The application shall contain such other information as is
required by the city. (1997 Code § 14-211)
   C.   Permit Fee: A fee as set by the city council by motion or resolution
shall be paid to the city prior to obtaining the permit required in this
section. (1997 Code § 14-212)
   D.   Denial Of Permit: The city may, in its discretion, refuse to approve
any permit to cut any curbing along the streets of the city when the cutting of
the curbing shall constitute a traffic hazard, or interfere in any way with the
safety of the public in the use of the street or adjacent sidewalk, or in any
way deteriorate or damage the street or interfere with the use thereof by the
public. (1997 Code § 14-211)
   E.   Restrictions: Only such portions of any curbing may be cut or removed
as, in the opinion of the code enforcement officer, may be consistent with and
not detrimental to the general public welfare. (1997 Code § 14-211; amd. 2014
Code)
   F.   Inspection: The removing of such curbing, the construction of the
driveway and all other parts of the work in connection therewith shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of the city. (1997 Code § 14-213)
8-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 14-214)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES AND PUBLIC EVENTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definition
8-3-2: Permit Required; Exemptions
8-3-3: Application For Permit
8-3-4: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
8-3-5: Denial Of Permit; Alternate Permit
8-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "parade" means any parade, march, ceremony, show,
demonstration, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar
display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the city. (1997
Code § 10-405)
8-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall use any street, alley, public way, park or other property owned
or controlled by the city, except those places specifically designed and
intended for such use, for the purpose of holding, conducting, causing or
participating in any parade, street fair, street dance, carnival, assemblage or
activity of any nature which may cause the disturbance or interference of the
normal and ordinary use of the property by other persons, without first having
obtained a permit for such purpose. The permit may be granted by the mayor
under such conditions as deemed appropriate. Permits shall not be required
under this chapter in the case of construction or repairs to or within any such
street or property, provided there is compliance with all other requirements of
this code. (1997 Code § 10-405)
8-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Not less than two (2) weeks prior to the closing or use of a street or property
for a parade, an application shall be submitted by the party to the city. The
time requirements may be waived by the mayor at his discretion if sufficient
time exists for the proper review of the application as herein provided. The
application shall be submitted upon a form prescribed by the city. The
application shall provide such other information as requested. (1997 Code § 10-
405)
8-3-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   The mayor shall issue a permit as provided hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
      1.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      2.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city; (1997 Code § 10-405)
      3.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of emergency vehicles as to prevent normal emergency service to
portions of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of
march and areas contiguous thereto;
      4.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or emergency service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas; (1997 Code § 10-405; amd. 2014 Code)
      5.   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      6.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
and
      7.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   B.   The mayor, in such cases as shall be determined in his discretion, may
require, as a condition to the issuance of a permit herein, such insurance or
bond holding the city harmless from any and all liability for injury or damage
of any kind whatsoever occurring during such activity covered by the permit.
(1997 Code § 10-405)
8-3-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT; ALTERNATE PERMIT:
   A.   Without regard to subsection
8-3-4B of this chapter, the mayor, from his consideration of available,
appropriate and necessary information, shall deny the application for a permit
provided by this chapter when, from this information, he has reason to believe
that any contemplated advocacy at the proposed event will be directed to
inciting or producing imminent lawless action and will likely incite or produce
such action.
   B.   The mayor, in denying an application for a parade permit, may authorize
the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different from
that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall so indicate within five (5) days after notice of the action of the
mayor. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this chapter. (1997 Code § 10-
405)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Park And Recreation Board
8-4-2: Regulations For All Parks And Recreational Facilities
8-4-3: Motor Vehicles And Horses In Parks
8-4-4: User Fees
8-4-5: Authority Of School System To Use Lee Park
8-4-6: Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations
8-4-7: Violations; Penalty
8-4-1: PARK AND RECREATION BOARD:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to foster and promote the
maintenance and operation of city parks and recreation facilities. (1997 Code §
11-111)
   B.   Board Created; Appointment And Term: There is hereby created a park and
recreation board. The board shall consist of five (5) members, residents of the
city, appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the city council. The term
of each member shall be five (5) years, overlapping with the terms of the other
members, or until his successor takes office.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as provided herein for appointment. If a member ceases to be a resident
of the city, his position shall be automatically vacated. (1997 Code § 11-112)
   D.   Duties: The board shall:
      1.   Act as an advisory board to the city council with reference to all
city parks and recreational facilities within or without the city.
      2.   Make recommendations with reference to the operation of the city
parks and recreational facilities and recommendations as to rules and
regulations concerning the use of the parks and recreational facilities by the
public.
      3.   Make recommendations to the city council with reference to the
beautification of the parks and recreational facilities, and particularly, but
not limited to, the layout of walks and drives in the parks; the planting of
trees, shrubs, flowers and making other improvements to the parks and
recreational facilities.
      4.   Make recommendations to the city council with reference to the
safety of the public in general in enjoying and using the parks and
recreational facilities as it deems appropriate.
      5.   Make recommendations as it deems appropriate for the overall
physical improvement of the parks and recreational facilities of the city. It
shall consult with any and all civic organizations, clubs or associations
desiring to contribute to or make improvements to the parks and recreational
facilities of the city. (1997 Code § 11-113)
   E.   Compensation: The members shall serve without compensation. (1997 Code
§ 11-112; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
8-4-2: REGULATIONS FOR ALL PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES:
The following regulations apply in city park and recreation areas:
   A.   Damage To Property:
      1.   No person shall injure, break, cut, mutilate, carry away or remove
any tree, shrub, plant, flower, stone, stone walk, bench, chair, seat, stand,
structure, fence, property or anything whatsoever in, upon or near any park.
      2.   No person shall go or walk upon any space in the parks reserved for
flowers or other plants or otherwise invade any plot reserved by the city for
shrubbery, grass or flowers or for any other purposes.
   B.   Disturbing Animals: No person shall chase, kill, set snares for, pet or
tease any animal or fowl belonging to the park or kept therein.
   C.   Fastening Animals: No person shall fasten any horse, cow or other
animal to any tree, stake, building, post or other fastening in any park.
   D.   Posting Handbills: No person shall paste, affix or inscribe any
handbill, poster, card, device or inscription to or upon or against any fence,
structure or property of or on any park or highway, street or avenue
surrounding the same.
   E.   Vendors: No person shall set up any booth, table, stand or other device
for vending or retailing any items or services without first obtaining license
therefor from the city.
   F.   Disturbing Activities Of Others: No person shall disturb or interfere
with any picnic or social gathering or program of any group of persons in a
city park.
   G.   Polluting Waters: No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind
into any lake, pond, stream or other place in the park except in receptacles
designed for that purpose. (1997 Code § 11-103)
8-4-3: MOTOR VEHICLES AND HORSES IN PARKS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle or ride any
horse or animal in or upon the public parks except upon clearly defined public
roadways or public parking areas in the parks, or except in cases of public
necessity when authorized and directed to do so by city officials.
   B.   The speed of any motor vehicle in a park or recreational facility shall
not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour.
   C.   All vehicles or equestrians, when meeting on the streets or driveways
in any park shall keep to the right and comply otherwise with traffic rules of
the city. (1997 Code § 11-104)
8-4-4: USER FEES:
The city shall provide by motion or resolution, from time to time, the fees
charged for any recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purpose owned or operated by the city. (1997 Code § 11-102; amd.
2014 Code)
8-4-5: AUTHORITY OF SCHOOL SYSTEM TO USE LEE PARK:
The New Cordell public school system is an authorized user of Lee Park in
accordance with city ordinance, state law and the city comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2011-02, 2-22-2011)
8-4-6: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with parks and recreational areas in the city and the use of all
other recreational facilities owned or operated by the city. (1997 Code § 11-
101)
8-4-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to use any park or recreational facilities
operated by the city without having complied with the rules and regulations
promulgated by the city council in connection therewith. Anyone violating any
of the rules and regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 11-106)
CHAPTER 5
CITY PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Library Established
8-5-2: Library Board
8-5-3: Participation In Multicounty Library System
8-5-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The city is the possessor of the city public library and operates it for the
benefit of the people of the city. (1997 Code § 11-201)
8-5-2: LIBRARY BOARD:
A library board as designated by the city council may have advisory
responsibilities for the management of city public library. The library board
may make all necessary rules and regulations for its operation and for the care
and management of the city public library, subject to the approval and adoption
by the city council. (1997 Code § 11-201; amd. 2014 Code; Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-
2019)
8-5-3: PARTICIPATION IN MULTICOUNTY LIBRARY SYSTEM:
The city is located within the proposed district to be served by a multicounty
library, to be established and created pursuant to state law. In order to
provide good library service to city residents, the city participates in the
Western Plains library system. (1997 Code § 11-202; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Cemetery Board Of Directors
8-6-2: Cemetery Care Fund
8-6-3: Fees And Charges
8-6-4: Deeds To Lots
8-6-5: Sale Of Lots; Issuance Of Burial Permits
8-6-6: Monuments And Improvements
8-6-7: Coping, Walk Or Wall Prohibited
8-6-8: Removal Of Wreaths And Decorations
8-6-9: Vehicles In Cemetery
8-6-10: Damage To Property Prohibited
8-6-11: Records Kept
8-6-12: Authority To Adopt Rules And Regulations
8-6-13: Utilization Of A Standard Single Cemetery Plot
8-6-14: Placement Of Headstones And Markers
8-6-15: Preexisting Objects And Markers
8-6-1: CEMETERY BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Board Created; Membership: There is hereby created a Board of Cemetery
Trustees to administer the affairs of the City cemetery. The Board of Cemetery
Trustees shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the City Council.
   B.   Advisory Recommendations: The Board of Cemetery Trustees shall have the
power to give recommendations on the following: (1997 Code § 11-301; amd. 2014
Code)
      1.   Making rules and regulations governing the management and
improvement of the cemetery;
      2.   Fixing the price for which lots shall be sold and for which an
interment shall be made; and
      3.   Appointment of all officers necessary for the control and management
of the cemetery, including a Cemetery Superintendent, subject to the approval
of the Mayor and City Council.
   C.   Compensation: The members shall serve without compensation. (1997 Code
§ 11-301; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
8-6-2: CEMETERY CARE FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There is hereby established a Cemetery Care Fund for
maintenance and improvement of the City cemetery, to be operated in accordance
with State law.
   B.   Financing And Investment Of Fund:
      1.   Financing and investment of the fund shall be as permitted by the
City and State law. (1997 Code § 11-302)
      2.   Donations, deposits or bequests may be made in trust for special
care of specified lots, monuments or mausoleums in the cemetery. Such funds
shall be placed in a Perpetual Care Fund as provided by law, and a separate
account shall be kept of each amount so deposited, donated or bequeathed, and
expended as specified by the donor. (1997 Code § 11-308)
8-6-3: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Fees And Charges Established:
      1.   Lots: The City Council, by motion or resolution, shall fix the price
for which lots shall be sold. (1997 Code §§ 11-303, 11-304)
      2.   Interment: The interment fee for opening and closing graves in the
cemetery shall be established by motion or resolution of the City Council.
Additional fees shall be charged for opening graves on Sundays or legal
holidays. (1997 Code § 11-304)
   B.   Payment Of Fees Required:
      1.   No deed for any lot shall be issued, no grave opened, and no
monument or marker shall be set, located or placed until the requisite price,
fee or charge has been paid in full and in cash to the appropriate officer,
except as may be otherwise allowed by the City herein. (1997 Code § 11-307)
      2.   In no case shall any person dig any grave or inter any human body in
or upon any lot owned by the City in the cemetery until the City shall have
received the full price to be paid for the lot in or upon which such grave or
interment is to be made, and until a permit is issued by the Clerk as provided
herein. (1997 Code § 11-305)
8-6-4: DEEDS TO LOTS:
All contracts or deeds for the sale or transfer of lots in the cemetery shall
be signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk upon the payment of the charges
therefor to the Clerk. (1997 Code § 11-304)
8-6-5: SALE OF LOTS; ISSUANCE OF BURIAL PERMITS:
The City Clerk may contract and sell any lot in the cemetery, at the price or
prices fixed by the City, and issue permits for the burial of the human dead in
the cemetery. (1997 Code § 11-310)
8-6-6: MONUMENTS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Permit Requirements For Monuments: A permit shall be obtained for
setting any monument or grave marker in the City cemetery, and the fee therefor
shall be established by motion or resolution of the City Council. The permit
issued by the City shall indicate the specific location for the marker or
monument, its cost and the name of the person securing the same. (1997 Code §
11-306)
   B.   Erection Of Monuments; Installation Of Improvements:
      1.   Supervision: The erection of monuments, tombstones, filling of
graves, improving, adorning and embellishing graves, or the marking thereof, by
private parties in the cemetery shall be done under the supervision of the City
and not otherwise.
      2.   Payment Of Fees Required: No improvement shall be made and no
erection of monuments or marking of graves shall be had until all charges owing
the City on the lot to be improved shall have been fully paid. (1997 Code § 11-
311)
8-6-7: COPING, WALK OR WALL PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to install any coping, walk or wall in the
cemetery. This prohibition shall not affect the City in making improvements
necessary and maintaining the cemetery. (1997 Code § 11-309)
8-6-8: REMOVAL OF WREATHS AND DECORATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to remove wreaths, flowers, potted plants or
other decorations, whether live or artificial, placed on or near graves in the
cemetery other than by the person placing such wreath, flower, potted plant or
other decoration, or his authorized agent or representative. The City may, one
week following Memorial Day and other occasions when graves in the cemetery may
be decorated, remove and dispose of such decorations other than permanent
plantings and potted flowers or plants placed upon grave markers in a position
where they do not interfere with the mowing or maintenance of the cemetery.
(1997 Code § 11-313)
8-6-9: VEHICLES IN CEMETERY:
No motorized vehicle shall be permitted in the cemetery except:
   A.   Vehicles operated by the City or under contract to the City.
   B.   Vehicles entering, exiting, or being parked or stored where part or
portion of the cemetery is designed and maintained for entrance, exit, parking
or storage of motorized vehicles. (1997 Code § 11-314)
8-6-10: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to injure or deface any property, monument,
shrubbery, flowers or plants which have been erected or planted in the
cemetery. (1997 Code § 11-312)
8-6-11: RECORDS KEPT:
The Clerk or his designee shall keep a complete record of all sales and burials
in the books provided by the City. The record shall show the number and
location of the lot sold, the date of sale, to whom sold, the amount paid for
each lot, and the name of the person whose body is interred in the lot. (1997
Code § 11-304)
8-6-12: AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council, by motion or resolution, or upon recommendation of the
Cemetery Board, may adopt rules and regulations relating to the City cemetery.
(1997 Code § 11-315)
8-6-13: UTILIZATION OF A STANDARD SINGLE CEMETERY PLOT:
Only one casket containing the remains of one person or two (2) cremation urns
each urn containing the remains of one person per urn may be placed in one
standard single cemetery plot in the City of New Cordell Cemetery. (Ord. 2018-
04, 5-21-2018, eff. 5-21-2018)
8-6-14: PLACEMENT OF HEADSTONES AND MARKERS:
No more than two (2) headstones or markers may be located at a cemetery plot.
One headstone or marker shall be allowed at the head of the plot and one at the
foot of the plot. No headstones, markers or similar solid objects shall be
allowed to be placed between the head of the plot and the foot of the plot. The
City shall have the right to remove any such object placed between the head of
the plot and the foot of the plot. (Ord. 2018-04, 5-21-2018, eff. 5-21-2018)
8-6-15: PREEXISTING OBJECTS AND MARKERS:
Objects placed and currently existing between the head of the plot and the foot
of the plot prior to the effective date of this section shall be allowed to
remain in their present location. However, if such an object is removed for any
reason whatsoever no object will be allowed to be similarly placed on the plot.
(Ord. 2018-04, 5-21-2018, eff. 5-21-2018)
CHAPTER 7
URBAN FORESTS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Community Background, Need And Vision
8-7-2: Mission And Policy
8-7-3: Description
8-7-4: Definitions
8-7-5: Urban Forest Commission
8-7-6: Urban Forest Conservation And Management Plan
8-7-7: Wildlife Sanctuary Designation
8-7-8: Duties Of City Officials And Employees
8-7-9: Management Regulations For Public Lands
8-7-10: Protection Regulations For Publicly And Privately Owned Trees And
Shrubs
8-7-11: Violation; Penalty
8-7-12: Conflicting Provisions
8-7-1: COMMUNITY BACKGROUND, NEED AND VISION:
   A.   Community Background:
      1.   The city is an environmental jewel in the semi-arid farmlands of
western Oklahoma. Built along Cordell Creek in the late 1800s, this small city
with a population of about two thousand nine hundred (2,900) is one of a few
western Oklahoma municipalities having an abundance of natural and community
resources. Many of its neighborhoods are nestled among native hardwood
bottomlands along Cordell Creek. Many well maintained yards, public areas, and
native wildflower gardens provide natural beauty and support a diverse wildlife
community.
      2.   Community forested areas and park lands largely help define a
community's character. If a community is progressive enough to provide for the
total quality of life for its citizens, it will also foster economic and
personal growth. The evidence from nationwide surveys and studies shows that
investment by a community in park lands and public places is a necessary
element of a community's program to attract and keep people. The reasons for
this phenomenon are many, but the basic reason is that park lands and public
areas help define a community's character as follows:
         a.   The vast majority of the American public use local parks and
recreation facilities. Parks and recreation use continues through the lives of
most people. Recreation participation declines with age, but park use does not.
People between the ages of sixty five (65) and seventy four (74) use local park
lands more than any other group older than the age of fifteen (15). People who
do not use local park lands perceive that they are beneficial to them and to
the community as a whole.
         b.   Open spaces and public areas contribute to the quality of life
for the residents of the area. They provide exercise, fitness, fun and
entertainment, learning, education, and relaxation.
         c.   Open spaces and public areas provide economic benefits to the
local community. The economy of the local area is enhanced because of the
affordability of the local park lands. Special park lands and recreation
facilities attract visitors who generate income to local business. Those who
are considering relocation usually look at all aspects of the target community,
including the living environment.
         d.   Open spaces and public areas provide environmental benefits to
individuals and to the community as a whole. Local park lands and facilities
provide fresh air, the opportunity to commune with nature, and a place to be
outdoors.
         e.   Local recreation facilities provide benefits to the residents of
the area. Some of these benefits include having instructional classes, the joy
of recreating with others, a place to go, a workout area, exposure to the arts,
opportunity to do crafts, and places to watch or participate in organized
sports.
         f.   Local park lands and recreation facilities are associated with a
sense of community. Community benefits are considered by most Americans to be
more important than either individual or household benefits. About seventy five
percent (75%) of Americans believe that the local recreation and parks services
are worth forty five dollars ($45.00) or more to each member of their household
each year. In a 1999-2002 national survey on recreation and environment, ninety
seven percent (97%) of the U.S. population sixteen (16) years of age and older
participate in outdoor recreation. If facilities are not available to enable
residents to participate in desired activities, an obvious dissatisfaction
results.
         g.   Nonusers believe local park lands and recreation facilities are
beneficial. These nonusers believe they keep youth off the streets and
occupied, provide a sense of community, give youth a place to recreate, provide
exercise, fitness, and condition, provide a place to go for all ages, and are
good for people. Nonusers also believe that park lands provide aesthetic values
which they can enjoy by just driving by them and by knowing that they exist.
      3.   The citizens of the city have an interest in using available
recreation venues. A 1995-1996 survey of city households revealed the following
information about their use of four (4) city recreation facilities:
         a.   Forty three percent (43%) used the Cordell municipal swimming
pool.
         b.   Thirty three percent (33%) used the Cordell Senior Citizens
Center.
         c.   Sixty one percent (61%) used the city park lands.
         d.   Eight percent (8%) used the city lake.
      4.   The city's park lands and the Cordell Adams Lake conservation and
public use area, and the grounds surrounding the Cordell municipal swimming
pool serve as environments for most of the city's public forests. However, many
wooded areas exist on private property, and most trees are becoming old.
Therefore, the application of sound urban forest management and conservation
practices are necessary to ensure that the city maintains its natural beauty
and ecological diversity.
   B.   Community Needs:
      1.   Out migration of the human population and businesses is perhaps the
most serious economic and cultural issues facing western Oklahoma. Since 1970,
the population of the city has decreased about twelve percent (12%). With the
loss of its people came reduced revenues, depressed economies, and the general
dissipation of living conditions. Therefore, the city needs to maximize the use
of all of its assets to turn the tide from out migration to positive, desirable
human and economic growth. Cordell woodlands, park lands and public areas are
among the city's assets that have the potential for assisting to stimulate
economic revitalization.
      2.   If the city's future is to become a small city of human and economic
growth, it must create suitable economic and people environments. People want
and need trees and wooded areas, open places, parks, and programs that foster
their personal growth and development. Younger people and retirees will not
relocate to areas that do not meet their expectations.
      3.   In the case of the city, with its out migration of people and
businesses, improved public spaces are essential to rebuilding the area's
population and economic vitality. Many of the city's residents leave their
hometown for jobs and professions in other places. Older former residents of
retirement age do not return here because of the lack of recreation facilities.
      4.   Therefore, the citizens of the city must initiate an aggressive
innovative strategy for the development and marketing of its park lands and
public places. The citizens of the city are fortunate to have beautiful
forested neighborhoods, parks, and public places. However, ownership of parks
and public places does not guarantee that people will relocate here to raise
families and to retire. The following things must be available for a
community's parks and public areas to yield the desired economic and population
growth results:
         a.   Personal Benefits: Families are interested in well maintained and
modern parks and public places that promote family oriented fun, wellness,
learning and connections with family and friends.
         b.   Social Benefits: In this day of increasing crime and lawlessness,
families desire to have a community where they are welcome. A welcoming
community means that new citizens can be involved in things of interest to
themselves. Their involvement is in an environment of safe family places, a
strong community, and partnerships with members of the society.
         c.   Environmental Benefits: More than ever before, people choose
communities based on the quality of life, conservation, city identity, and
education opportunities. The tendency of people today is, whenever possible, to
locate their families or to retire in areas that meet their needs and provide
job opportunities for them.
         d.   Economic Benefits: People nowadays are mobile and have
expectations for their communities that did not exist a few decades ago. Young
families and most retirees are mobile enough to select areas that welcome them.
In order to feel welcome, a community must promote its assets: productivity,
tourism, jobs, and recreation benefits.
   C.   Community Vision:
      1.   The city can attract new people and businesses in proportion to the
efforts it makes to provide for the personal, social, environmental and
economic benefits of its existing and new citizenry. Therefore, a reasonable
and attainable vision for the city is for it to become a desirable place for
families, retirees and businesses to live and locate because the city welcomes
them as evidenced by the city's provision for personal, social, environmental,
and economic growth and well being of its existing and prospective citizens.
This vision is attainable to the extent that people of New Cordell accept the
responsibility for working together to improve and enhance their city.
      2.   The enactment of the spirit and letter of this chapter and the urban
forest management plan will make a significant contribution to attaining the
city's vision of becoming a desirable place for families, retirees and
businesses to live and locate in the city because the city welcomes them as
evidenced by the city's provision for opportunities for personal, social,
environmental, and economic growth and well being of its existing and
prospective citizens. As a result, ex-western Oklahoma citizens and others will
return home for retirement because they know that they are welcome as evidenced
by the area's natural beauty, scope and quality of services, recreation
opportunities, and businesses. Other people will relocate here because of the
quality of life, businesses will increase, the economy will flourish, and local
government revenues will provide for infrastructure maintenance and
improvement. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-2: MISSION AND POLICY:
   A.   Mission: The mission of the city urban forestry program is to promote
the planting, management, and preservation of forest resources in the city
neighborhoods and public places to enhance the city's environmental, social,
and economic climate.
   B.   City Policy: The mayor and city council recognize the importance of the
city's urban forests and woodlands to the quality of life within the city and
do hereby declare it to be a policy of the city that:
      1.   The city shall have an active city urban forest commission composed
of local individuals that have the expertise and interest in enhancing the
natural beauty, environmental diversity, and human environment of the city's
urban forests and woodlands.
      2.   The city shall have as its goal the conservation and management of
the trees and forests and their environments on its public streets, alleyways,
park lands, public places, and public easements to maintain and enhance the
natural beauty, environmental diversity and the human environment of the city
forests and woodlands.
      3.   The city, in concert with the city urban forest commission, the
Oklahoma department of agriculture, the U.S. department of agriculture, other
federal agencies, other state of Oklahoma agencies, private grantors and
cooperators, local government and business interests, and citizens of the city,
shall implement an urban forestry conservation and management program having
the following elements:
         a.   Survey of the urban forestry assets of the city.
         b.   Preparation of plans for the conservation, management, and
development of these resources.
         c.   Conduct urban forest and tree selection, planting, and care
seminars.
         d.   Manage and landscape the city's urban public urban forests to
enhance environmental diversity, human environment and the natural beauty of
the city.
         e.   Protect public owned forests and trees from illegal encroachment
and destruction.
         f.   Protect private forests and trees from illegal encroachment and
destruction.
         g.   Properly manage all city street easements, alleyways, park lands,
public places, and other public easements to reduce or eliminate public hazards
posed by unwise growth of trees and shrubs.
         h.   Enhance the public and private forest environments and public
understanding of the benefits of well maintained urban forests through public
information and education programs.
         i.   Landscape city property to enhance the natural beauty of the
city.
         j.   The city council, in consultation with the city urban forest
commission, shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend, and enforce such rules,
regulations, use fees, use conditions, and other requirements as it deems
necessary or expedient in connection with the conservation and management of
its urban forest resources, and their public use. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-3: DESCRIPTION:
All of the city's urban forests and woodlands that are found in the city limits
are included in this chapter. These include, but are not limited to, public
utility easements, street easements, alleyways, park lands, public places, and
other public easements. Also, included in the regulatory sections of this
chapter, are private forests and trees that may be subject to the destruction
or damage by the actions of other public or private interests, or may pose a
hazard or potential hazard to city electrical, water, wastewater, airport,
streets, parks, public places, alleyways, and any other public easements. (Ord.
2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-4: DEFINITIONS:
   CERTIFIED TREE SERVICEMAN: Those private tree service individuals and
organizations that have been certified by the Cordell urban forestry commission
as meeting the urban forestry commission's professional, safety, and
accountability requirements for providing tree services within the city. All
other candidate tree servicemen/businesses must apply for and receive a permit
from the city of New Cordell before they can perform tree services within the
city of New Cordell.
   CITY: The city of New Cordell in Washita County, Oklahoma.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangle formed by the curb lines of two (2)
intersecting rights of way and a third line connecting a full view zone at
corners of streets, alleys, and highways.
   CREW: One or more persons engaged in servicing trees at any one location,
whether residence or business.
   CUSTODIAN: A private property owner whose property is adjoined or infringe
upon by a city of New Cordell easement or alleyway. Custodians have the
authority, in consultation with the city of New Cordell and the Cordell urban
forestry commission, to maintain trees and shrubs located within their street
and utility easements and alleyways.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The city of New Cordell official who is in charge of
the enforcement of rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter.
   FORESTRY PROGRAM: A comprehensive annual plan including maintenance,
inventory, new planting and budget, with projections for annual and long range
implementation.
   PERSON: A person, firm, association or corporation.
   PRIVATE TREES AND SHRUBS: All trees and shrubs located in or upon private
property.
   PUBLIC AREAS: Include all public parks and other lands owned, controlled, or
leased by the city.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any tree or shrub or part thereof which, by reason of its
condition, interferes with the use of any public area; infected with a plant
disease; infested with injurious insects or pests; injurious to public
improvements or endangers the life, health, safety or welfare of persons or
property.
   PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS: All trees and shrubs located or to be planted in or
upon public areas.
   SHRUB: A woody plant with more than one stem or trunk at the ground level.
TO TOP A TREE: "Topping" is defined as a severe cutback of leaders and main
scaffold branches to stubs within the tree so as to remove the normal canopy
and disfigure the tree.
   TREE: A woody perennial plant that has a single trunk or stem.
   TREE SERVICE: Work performed on shade or ornamental trees including tree
removals and shade and ornamental tree trimming and cavity work.
   TREE SERVICEMAN: Any person servicing trees other than one working on his
own property. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-5: URBAN FOREST COMMISSION:
   A.   Appointment And Purpose: The mayor of the city, with the approval of a
majority of the city council members present at a regularly scheduled public
meeting, shall appoint a four (4) member city urban forest commission. This
commission shall be responsible to provide planning assistance and advice on
the conservation, management, and public use of the city's urban forest
resources.
   B.   Composition And Qualifications: The urban forest commission shall be
composed of four (4) voting members as follows: one member representing the
local U.S. department of agriculture's natural resource conservation agency,
one member representing the Washita County OSU extension service office, one
member representing the city government and one member having farming, urban
wildscape or tree stewardship related education and/or experience. Each member
of the urban forestry commission shall have a demonstrated interest, knowledge
and experience in the conservation and management of urban forests.
   C.   Term And Compensation: Each commission member shall serve a five (5)
year term. Noncity employees shall serve without special compensation from the
city.
   D.   Organization: Members shall select a chair and vice chair at their
initial meeting. The chair may appoint subcommittees. Meetings shall be at the
discretion of the chair, except meetings must be convened at least quarterly
four (4) times per year.
   E.   Annual Report: At least annually, the commission chair, or designee,
shall provide a report of activities and recommendations to the city council at
one of its regularly scheduled public meetings.
   F.   Commission Regulated: All activities of the urban forest commission
shall be governed by the provisions of sections
8-7-1 and
8-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
8-7-6: URBAN FOREST CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PLAN:
The urban forest commission shall prepare a city urban forest conservation and
management plan. The commission shall update the plan from time to time as
necessary, to govern the management of the city's urban forest assets. All
plans and plan modifications prepared by the urban forest commission shall be
presented to the city council for approval at one of its regularly scheduled
public meetings before the provisions of the plan or plan modification may be
implemented. This plan shall include, annually, a certification of individual
tree servicemen and tree service firms meeting the requirements of this chapter
and the city urban forest commission for performing tree service on public and
private property within the city. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-7: WILDLIFE SANCTUARY DESIGNATION:
All of the forest and other terrestrial, wetland, and aquatic ecosystems within
the city limits are classified as a wildlife sanctuary. Except as permitted in
this chapter, and related provisions of this code, hunting and trapping of wild
mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians is prohibited in all public or private
lands, except by authorized local, county, state or federal officials as
required for protection of humans and their habitations, and natural resources.
Recreational fishing, in compliance with the regulations of the Oklahoma
department of wildlife conservation and special city council regulations, is
allowed in Cordell Creek and the Cordell Reservoir. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-8: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES:
The city administrator shall implement the provisions of this chapter and
coordinate urban forest planning and management activities and programs as
recommended by the city urban forestry commission and approved by the city
council. Other city employee responsibilities are:
   A.   Code enforcement officer: Is responsible for the enforcement of all
requirements promulgated under this chapter.
   B.   City inspector: Is responsible for applying the requirements
promulgated under this chapter to the city building code enforcement and
related construction permits.
   C.   Parks manager, airport manager, and street manager: In consultation
with the city administrator, are responsible for applying the requirements of
this chapter to their management of public park lands and public easements.
   D.   Street manager: Is responsible for assisting the assigned city staff to
implement tree conservation and management measures on public streets and
public rights of way, including alleyways and street easements.
   E.   Grant manager: Is responsible for working with the assigned city staff
to identify grantor fundable tree management and conservation needs, and
seeking funding to satisfy these city forest needs.
   F.   City clerk: In consultation with the code enforcement officer and the
city inspector, is responsible for issuing permits and collecting permit fees.
   G.   All other city employees: Are responsible for complying with all the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-9: MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS:
The following regulations are in effect for the conservation and management of
trees on city public lands. These include, but are not limited to, public
utility easements, street easements, alleyways, park lands, public places, and
other public easements. Other federal, state, and local government entities in
the city shall be encouraged to apply these principles to the management of
their trees.
   A.   Preservation, Management And Removal Of Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   The city administrator shall plant, trim, spray, preserve, renew,
and remove public trees and shrubs or cause such work to be performed by the
city, its cooperators or contractors as may be necessary to ensure the public
safety, preserve the beauty of public areas, establish and maintain
environmental diversity and stability in its urban forests, mitigate tree or
animal disease outbreaks, remove noxious birdlife habitat, and protect public
property, sewer lines, water lines, electrical lines, roadways, easements, and
alleyways from damage or injury.
      2.   The city administrator may enter into agreements with custodians,
individuals, businesses, government agencies, not for profit organizations, and
industry whereby they provide funding and/or services to plant, trim, spray,
preserve, renew, remove and conserve trees on public lands and easements to
ensure the public safety, preserve the beauty of public areas, establish and
maintain environmental diversity and stability in its urban forests, mitigate
tree or animal disease outbreaks, remove noxious birdlife habitat, and protect
public property, sewer lines, water lines, electrical lines, roadways,
easements, and alleyways from damage or injury.
   B.   Managing Trees And Shrubs On Easements, Alleyways And Public Property:
The city administrator, in consultation with the adjoining property owners
(custodians) and the city urban forestry commission, shall ensure that all
trees and shrubs planted on city utility easements, alleyways, park lands, and
public areas meet the following requirements:
      1.   Generally, the trees on city property, alleyways, and easements
shall be managed in accordance with general accepted tree care principles such
as those found in the International Society Of Arboriculture "Best Management
Practices".
      2.   The city shall have the overall authority and responsibility for
ensuring that all trees and shrubs on city alleyways, easements, and public
park lands are conserved and managed as specified in this subsection B.
      3.   Property owners within city alleyways and easements are custodians
of the trees and shrubs on the adjoining easements and alleyways. The city and
the city urban forestry commission shall provide information and assistance
when necessary to these property owners (custodians) to assist them in the
selection and management of trees and shrubs on city easements and alleyways.
      4.   No trees or shrubs shall be planted within thirty feet (30') of any
street corner by either public agencies or private owners. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this subsection B, no person shall maintain, plant or permit
to remain on any private or public premises situated at the intersection of two
(2) or more streets or alleys in the city, any hedge, tree, shrub, or other
growth which may obstruct the view of the operator of any motor vehicle or
pedestrian approaching such intersection. A clear sight triangle shall be
maintained to a minimum distance of thirty feet (30') from the corner of two
(2) intersecting streets or alleys.
      5.   The owner of every lot or parcel of land in the city, including
private and public owners, upon which any trees, shrubs, or plants are growing,
or upon which any obstruction has been placed, shall remove such trees, plants
or obstructions, or parts thereof, if they are so situated as to constitute a
traffic hazard by obstructing the view of any driver of any vehicle on the
streets of the city to the extent that the driver is unable to observe the
approach of other vehicles on streets and alleys and at intersections.
      6.   The custodian of any premises abutting on any streets, public
utility easements, street easements, alleyways, park lands, public places, and
other public easements shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing on the
property in such a manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct
free and convenient passage, sight and travel along the streets, sidewalks,
trailways, recreational sites, and alleys. Such trees and shrubbery shall be
trimmed so that the lowest branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet
(10') above the roadway of a street or alley nor lower than eight feet (8')
above the sidewalk or trailway.
      7.   Any custodian who fails, refuses or neglects to trim trees and
shrubbery from alleyways and easements as provided in this subsection B, after
receiving five (5) days' written notice by the city to do so, is guilty of an
offense against the city. In addition to any fine or punishment for the
offense, the city may act to abate the nuisance. Every day that the owner or
occupant fails, refuses or neglects to trim such trees or shrubbery after the
expiration of the five (5) days' notice shall be a separate offense.
      8.   The city, or its agents and contractors, may enter into public or
private property to trim trees and shrubs that pose a hazard to its electrical
service lines. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
   C.   Trimming And Removal On Easements, Alleys And Public Property:
      1.   The following species or cultivars of trees shall not be planted in
city public areas and easements by the city:
         a.   American cottonwoods (Populus deltoids).
         b.   American elm (Ulmus Americana).
         c.   American sycamore (Platanus spp.).
         d.   Tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissima).
         e.   Siberian elm (Ulmus pumila).
         f.   Japanese elm (Ulmus davidiane var. Japonica).
         g.   Mimosa tree (Albizia julibrissin).
      2.   The size and genus, species and variety of trees and shrubs to be
planted on city easements and alleyways are a part of the city's urban forestry
program. The local owners of the easements and alleyways (custodians) shall be
provided assistance and information necessary to plant trees having value for
natural beauty, hardiness, and wildlife habitat, and for promoting the
ecological diversity of native hardwood bottomlands that were once prevalent in
the floodplains of western Oklahoma. However, after enactment of this chapter,
it shall be unlawful for any person to plant any restricted tree species or
cultivar in city easements or alleyways.
      3.   The city administrator, in consultation with city parks, street, and
airport managers, and the city urban forestry commission, shall prepare plans
for the reforestation of trees in city park lands and public properties. Trees
selected by the city for planting in its park lands and public places shall be
those trees that have value for natural beauty, hardiness, wildlife habitat,
and usefulness in promoting the ecological diversity of native hardwood
bottomlands that were once prevalent in the floodplains of western Oklahoma.
      4.   The city administrator, in consultation with the adjoining property
owners (custodians), shall arrange for the removal and disposal of dead tree
limbs and dead, decrepit, or diseased trees from public utility easements,
street easements, alleyways, park lands, public places, and other city
easements. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Commercial Tree Services:
      1.   No person, for compensation, shall plant, prune, trim, or remove any
tree or shrub from private property within the city limits without first
obtaining a permit from the city, or being certified by the city urban forestry
commission.
      2.   The basic professional tree care serviceman principles that shall be
applied by the city urban forestry commission in developing an annual listing
of certified tree care servicemen that may perform tree services in the city
are as follows:
         a.   Each applicant individual or business applying for accreditation
to perform tree services in the city shall demonstrate that he has the
practical training and experience in the care, pruning, removal, and culture of
trees and shrubs. Certification by the Tree Care Industry Association is
preferred. However, this certification may be waived by the urban forestry
commission if the applicant can demonstrate that he has comparable responsible
tree care knowledge and experience.
         b.   Each applicant for certification or a city tree care permit shall
demonstrate that he will have a supervisor or foreman meeting the requirements
of subsection D2a of this section in charge of each tree service crew. Each
crew of workmen servicing trees shall have a person in charge who shall be
designated the foreman who shall be properly licensed or certified as a tree
serviceman. A foreman shall supervise and direct the work of his crew and shall
be responsible for any violation or infraction of the provisions of this
chapter committed by him or any member of his crew.
         c.   The applicant is committed to obey all ordinances and rules and
regulations relative to the purpose for which the tree care accreditation or a
tree care permit is granted.
         d.   The applicant is committed to obtain the necessary permission and
coordination from the city inspector and the city code enforcement officer
where it becomes necessary to erect barriers to prevent accidents or dangers in
consequence to the granting of the permit.
         e.   The applicant agrees to hold the city and the city urban forestry
commission harmless in case of any accident or on account of any liability
arising from the certification or permit. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
         f.   Every applicant for accreditation or permit under this subsection
D shall, before obtaining a certification by the urban forestry commission or a
city tree service permit or any renewal of a certification or permit, be
required to maintain at all times in a stock or mutual casualty company
authorized to do business in the state of Oklahoma, workers' compensation
insurance, if required by law, and public liability insurance coverage of not
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The applicant shall be
required to file proof with the city clerk of a certificate signed by a
qualified agent of the stock or mutual casualty insurance company stating that
a policy has been issued to the applicant for: employee liability insurance or
workers' compensation insurance, the minimum limits of each, the policy number
or numbers, the name of the company, the effective date of such policies, and
the expiration date of such policies, together with a statement and a copy of
an endorsement placed on such policy or policies, requiring ten (10) days'
written notice to the city clerk if it becomes necessary to cancel the policy
or policies for any reason. If the policy or policies are canceled for any
reason, the city clerk shall revoke the permit or authorization. (Ord. 2007-06,
11-5-2007; amd. 2014 Code)
         g.   Urban forestry commission authorizations and city tree service
permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance and may be
annually renewed upon proof of continuing compliance with authorization and
permit requirements as established in this chapter. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
      3.   Any person not certified by the city urban forestry commission
desiring to obtain such tree service permit shall make application in the
office of the city clerk. Permits are free. The requirements for the issuing
annual commercial tree service permits are the same as that those outlined in
subsection D2 of this section. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007; amd. 2014 Code)
8-7-10: PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR PUBLICLY AND PRIVATELY OWNED TREES AND
SHRUBS:
   A.   Generally, the trees on city property, alleyways, and easements shall
be managed in accordance with generally accepted tree care principles such as
those found in the International Society Of Arboriculture "Best Management
Practices".
   B.   No person shall, without the consent of the owner of a publicly owned
or privately owned tree or shrub, do or cause to be done by others, any of the
following acts relating to trees or shrubs:
      1.   Secure, fasten or run any rope, sign, unprotected electrical
installation or other device or material to, around, or through a tree or
shrub.
      2.   Break, injure, mutilate, deface, cut, kill or destroy any tree or
shrub or permit any fire to burn where it will injure any tree or shrub.
      3.   Permit any toxic chemical, gas, smoke, oil, pesticide, or any other
injurious substance to seep, drain, or be emptied upon or about any tree or
shrub, or place cement or other solid substance around the base of the same.
      4.   Excavate any ditch, tunnel or trench or lay any drive within a
radius of four feet (4') from any tree or shrub except those by public
utilities authorized by the city inspector under an annual agreement and/or an
excavation permit.
      5.   Erect, alter, repair, raze, or excavate without placing suitable
guards as approved by the city inspector around all public and private trees or
shrubs which may be injured by such operations.
      6.   Remove any guard, stake or other device or material intended for the
protection of a public or private tree or shrub, or to close or obstruct any
open space about the base of a public tree or shrub designed to permit access
or air, water and fertilizer.
      7.   When a permit is obtained from the city to move over height and over
width structures or objects, the city administrator or the city inspector will
assist in advising the carrier regarding trees and shrubs on routes. Any damage
done to trees and shrubs by the carrier en route, either publicly or privately
owned, shall be the liability of the carrier. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
      8.   To top any tree. Trees damaged by storms when proper pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from the provisions of this
subsection by the city administrator or the city inspector. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-
5-2007; amd. 2014 Code)
8-7-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
8-7-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Wherever the requirements of this chapter are in conflict with other provisions
of this code, these requirements shall supersede the requirements of those
other provisions. (Ord. 2007-06, 11-5-2007)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVOIR FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC USE AREA
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Description
8-8-3: Definitions
8-8-4: Reservoir Management Board
8-8-5: Natural Resource Management Plan
8-8-6: Wildlife Sanctuary Designation
8-8-7: Use Regulations
8-8-8: Fishing Regulations
8-8-9: Scientific Surveys And Inventories
8-8-10: Wildlife Conservation And Management
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend, and enforce such
rules, regulations, use fees, use conditions, and other requirements as it
deems necessary or expedient in connection with the management of the Cordell
reservoir fish and wildlife management area's (previously known as Adam's Lake)
natural resources, and the public use of the Cordell reservoir fish and
wildlife management area's natural resources and manmade facilities. (1997 Code
§ 11-211)
8-8-2: DESCRIPTION:
All of the city of Cordell reservoir fish and wildlife management and public
use area's (previously known as Adam's Lake) manmade facilities and structures,
and natural resources, including city reservoirs, adjoining land, and the
adjacent tributaries of Boggy Creek, consisting of approximately thirty (30)
acres, situated in Section 17, Township 10 North, Range 18, W.I.M., Washita
County, Oklahoma. (1997 Code § 11-212)
8-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
   ANIMAL: An organism of the animal kingdom, as distinguished from the plant
kingdom; including any part, product, egg, or offspring thereof, or the dead
body parts thereof, excluding fossils.
   BAG LIMIT: The number of any kind of fish permitted to be taken in any one
day or one open season, as the case may be.
   BOAT: Any aquatic or amphibious vessel that is capable of conveying one or
more persons on water.
   BOW AND ARROW: When used for bowfishing, means a long bow only (any bow
except a crossbow) and an arrow.
   BUY: To obtain any item by an exchange for consideration, and includes
barter, offer to buy or the act of buying.
   CLOSED SEASON: All other times than open season, and is the period during
which protected fish, wildlife and plants cannot be lawfully taken.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES: To manage on a business basis or engage in any
transaction or exchange for consideration, including barter, the offer to sell
or possession with intent to sell for profit, or monetary gain.
   DAY: A period consisting of twenty four (24) hours from twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL: An animal kept for pleasure or for utility that has adapted
to life in association with and to the use of human beings, and shall not
include animals which normally can be found in the wild state, unless
specifically so designated by the city of New Cordell city council.
   ENDANGERED: Refers to any fish, wildlife, or plant species or subspecies,
wild or in captivity, whose prospects of survival and reproduction are in
immediate jeopardy and includes those species listed as endangered by the state
of Oklahoma and the federal government.
   EXOTIC WILDLIFE: Includes all species of wildlife that are not indigenous to
or that may not be found in the wild in the continental United States.
   FIREWORKS: Any incendiary or explosive device.
   FISH: Aquatic gill breathing vertebrates having paired fins.
   FISHER: One who is engaged in the lawful act of fishing.
   FISHING: The taking or attempting to take fish or other aquatic dwelling
organisms by hook and line, or such other means as may be designated as legal
by the city of New Cordell city council.
   FOUL HOOKED: A fish hooked other than inside the mouth.
   FURBEARER: Any animal whose fur or pelt has commercial value and includes
specifically: beaver, badger, bobcat, fox, muskrat, opossum, otter, raccoon,
skunk, and weasel.
   GAME: Mammals and birds.
   GAME ANIMAL: Any animal species normally sought by sportsmen and protected
by this chapter.
   GAME FISH: A fish normally sought after by fishers, and includes only
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, spotted bass, white bass, black crappie,
white crappie, northern pike, trout, sauger, saugeye, striped bass, walleye,
blue catfish, channel catfish, and hybrids thereof.
   GEOLOGICAL FEATURES: The nonliving components of the natural resources,
including soils, rocks, waters, fossils, and minerals.
   GIG: A handheld fish spearing device mounted at the end of a shaft.
   GRABHOOK: A handmade pole or rope with a single hook attached.
   HEADLIGHTING: The use of any light in conjunction with a firearm, longbow or
crossbow, from the period of sunset to sunrise, for the taking of game animals.
   HUNTING OR TAKING: Pursuing, killing, capturing, trapping, snaring and
netting wildlife, and all lesser acts such as disturbing, harrying, or worrying
or placing, setting, drawing or using any net, trap or other device used to
take wildlife and includes, specifically, every attempt to take and every
assistance to other persons in taking or attempting to take wild animals.
   JUGLINE: A vertical line suspended from a nonmetallic or nonglass floating
device which is drifting free or anchored.
   LIMBLINE: A line attached to a limb, branch or other natural object.
   MINNOWS: Small nongame fish commonly used for bait and include bluntnose,
bullhead minnows, chubs, dace, darters, fatheads, killifish, small carp, small
goldfish, and stonerollers.
   NATIVE WILDLIFE: All species of wildlife that are indigenous or that may be
found in the wild in the United States.
   NATURAL RESOURCES: Wildlife, their nonliving habitats, and geological
features.
   NIGHT OR NIGHTTIME: A period of time between sunset and sunrise.
NO CULLING: Fish caught and placed on a stringer or otherwise held in
possession (live well, basket, ice chest, etc.) and cannot be released.
   NONGAME WILDLIFE: All wildlife that are not classified as game.
   NOODLING: The taking of fish by use of hands only.
   OPEN SEASON: That season during which protected fish may be lawfully taken
and which the city of New Cordell city council regulates.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership and
includes agent, employee, and principal.
   PLANT: Any organism of the plant kingdom, as distinguished from the animal
kingdom, including any part, product, seed, fruit, propagule, or offspring
thereof, or the dead body thereof, excluding fossils.
   POSSESSION: The retention and control of the thing referred to and may be
actual or constructive possession.
   PROTECTED WILDLIFE: All wildlife which is accorded some measure of
protection in the time or manner of taking other than restrictions in the use
of artificial lights or poison.
   RESERVOIR: A body of water formed by an impounding dam structure, the size
of which shall be designated by the surface at water supply, conservation,
designated or power pool elevation as indicated by the governing agency.
   SAFETY ZONE: That water area below any dam for the distance of fifty (50)
yards from the base of the dam or, if there is a turbine outlet extending from
the dam, then the area between the base of the dam and fifty (50) yards
downstream from the downstream end of the water conveyance structure.
   SELL OR SALE: To exchange for consideration and includes barter, the offer
to sell or possession with intent to sell.
   SHALL: Imposing an obligation to act.
   SNAGGING: The dragging of a hook through the water attached to a handheld
line or fishing rod and line for the purpose of impaling fish.
   SPEAR AND SPEAR GUN: Any device that is powered by mechanical means for
spearing fish and other aquatic organisms.
   TAILWATER: The first one thousand feet (1,000') of stream below the base of
the reservoir dam.
   THREATENED: Any wildlife species or subspecies in the wild or in captivity
that, although not presently threatened with extinction, are in such small
numbers throughout their range that they may become an endangered species
within the foreseeable future or that they may be endangered if their
environment deteriorates. Threatened species and subspecies include those
species and subspecies listed as "threatened" by the federal government as well
as any species or subspecies identified as threatened by Oklahoma Statutes or
Oklahoma department of wildlife commission resolution.
   TOTAL LENGTH: Measured from the tip of the snout to the end of the tail,
with the fish laid flat on the rule with mouth closed and tail lobes pressed
together.
   TRANSPORT: The carrying or moving by any means, causing to be carried or
moved by any means, or accepting and receiving wildlife for such carrying or
movement.
   TRAP: The use of traps, nets, snares, deadfalls, or other devices used for
the purpose of killing, capturing, netting or ensnaring any wildlife.
   UNATTENDED FISHING GEAR: Not within the visual observing distance of the
fisher.
   WILD: Any wildlife, whether or not raised in captivity, that normally are
found in a state of nature.
   WILDLIFE: All wild birds, mammals, fish, reptiles, amphibians, plants and
other wild aquatic forms, and all other animals and plants which normally can
be found in the wild state, regardless of classification, whether resident,
migratory or imported, protected or unprotected, dead or alive, and shall
extend to and include any and every part of any individual species of wildlife,
whether or not bred, hatched, or born in captivity, and including any part,
product, egg, seed, propagule, or offspring thereof.
YO-YO: Any mechanical fishing device that automatically recoils when a fish
strikes. (1997 Code § 11-213)
8-8-4: RESERVOIR MANAGEMENT BOARD:
   A.   Appointment And Purpose: The mayor, with the approval of a majority of
city council members present at a regularly scheduled public meeting, shall
appoint a Cordell reservoir area management board to provide planning
assistance and advice on the conservation, management, and public use of the
Cordell reservoir fish and wildlife management and public use area and to
prepare fish and wildlife and public use plans, programs, and regulations and
to present them to the city council for consideration.
   B.   Composition And Qualifications: The board shall consist of seven (7)
members representing the following: one member representing the U.S. department
of agriculture's natural resource conservation agency; one member representing
the Oklahoma department of wildlife conservation's southwest regional fisheries
office; one member from either the Oklahoma department of wildlife
conservation's southwest regional wildlife division office or the Oklahoma
department of wildlife conservation's Washita County game warden's office; one
member representing the city administrator's office; and three (3) members
representing citizens of the city who have a demonstrated interest, knowledge
and experience in planning, operating, administering, and evaluating fish and
wildlife conservation, management, and public use programs.
   C.   Term And Compensation: Each member, or his designee, shall serve a
staggered five (5) year term. Noncity employees shall serve without special
compensation from the city.
   D.   Organization: Members shall select a chair, vice chair, and recorder at
their first meeting. The chair may appoint other subcommittees. Meetings shall
be at the discretion of the chair, except meetings must be convened at least
four (4) times per year.
   E.   Annual Report And Recommendations: At least annually, the board's
chair, or designee, shall appear before the city council at one of its
regularly scheduled public meetings to present a summary of its activities. The
board shall also make recommendations to the city council at least annually
concerning the management of natural resources and public use facilities of the
Cordell reservoir wildlife management and public use area. (1997 Code § 11-
214A; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
8-8-5: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN:
A public use and natural resource conservation and management plan shall govern
the use and conservation of the Cordell reservoir wildlife conservation and
public use area. All plans and plan modifications shall be presented to the
city council for approval at one of its regularly scheduled public meetings
before the provisions of the plan or plan modification may be implemented.
(1997 Code § 11-214B)
8-8-6: WILDLIFE SANCTUARY DESIGNATION:
All of the living and nonliving components of all of the terrestrial, wetland,
and aquatic ecosystems within this chapter are classified as a wildlife
sanctuary. Except as permitted herein, the harvest, attempt to harvest, take,
or attempt to take, disturb, or attempt to disturb any nonliving geological
feature, manmade structure, or wildlife, or the habitat of any living thing is
prohibited. No person shall enter the area with any domestic or exotic animals
and/or plants. Hunting, fishing, and trapping seasons for all wildlife is
closed except as provided in this chapter. (1997 Code § 11-214C)
8-8-7: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fishing License Required: As required by the state of Oklahoma
department of wildlife conservation, fishing licenses are required for fishing
on the Cordell wildlife management and public use area.
   B.   Fees: The city council shall provide by rules, from time to time, the
fees charged for any such entrance and recreational use privileges on the
Cordell reservoir wildlife management and public use area. (1997 Code § 11-
214D)
   C.   Firearms, Wildlife Harvesting Devices And Hunting: The possession or
use of firearms, crossbows, longbows, traps, seines, yo-yos, nets or any other
similar device commonly used to harvest fish and wildlife resources is
prohibited. The use of these devices to take, attempt to take, harvest, attempt
to harvest, harass, attempt to harass, destroy, or attempt to destroy any
natural resource or public use facility of the Cordell wildlife management and
public use area is prohibited. (1997 Code § 11-214E)
   D.   Domestic And Exotic Animals:
      1.   All domestic and exotic animals including dogs, cats, horses,
donkeys, mules and any other exotic and domestic animals are prohibited on the
Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area. Only those domestic
animals registered for support of physically impaired people shall be allowed
on the area.
      2.   The running at large, herding, driving across, allowing on,
pasturing or grazing of livestock of any kind in the area is prohibited.
      3.   Estray livestock trespassing in the area may be impounded by the
city. After impoundment, attempt shall be made to contact the rightful owner.
If contact cannot be made, the city shall proceed with sale of the unclaimed
livestock. The city shall be paid actual costs of impound, maintenance and
damages which have accrued during the impoundment period from the proceeds of
the sale of estray livestock. (1997 Code § 11-214F)
   E.   Fires, Fireworks And Smoking:
      1.   Fires: Fires are prohibited except in areas designated by the city
administrator. The harvest or attempt to harvest of any living or dead tree,
shrub, plant, tree branch, limb or root within the Cordell reservoir fish and
wildlife conservation and management and public use area is prohibited.
      2.   Fireworks: The possession or use of any kind of fireworks is
prohibited on the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area.
      3.   Smoking: The city administrator may designate a portion of the area,
or all or a portion of a building, structure or facility, as closed to smoking
when necessary to protect natural or cultural resources, reduce the risk of
fire, or prevent conflicts among visitor use activities. Smoking in a
designated nonsmoking area or location is prohibited. Areas which shall be
posted as "no smoking" areas shall include, but not be limited to, area offices
and buildings, information centers, restrooms, nature centers, trailways, and
areas designated as wildlife preserves. (1997 Code § 11-214G)
   F.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   No person shall possess, consume, or sell, or attempt to sell,
consume, or possess alcoholic beverages and/or controlled chemical substances.
      2.   No person shall deface or injure, break, cut, mutilate, carry or
remove any plant, tree, shrub, flower, stone, stone walk, trail, retention
structure, bench, chair, seat, stand, structure, water control structure, boat
ramp, pier, fence, property or anything whatsoever in, upon or near the Cordell
fish and wildlife management and public use area.
      3.   No person shall chase, kill, set snares for, pet, or tease any
animal belonging to the area or kept therein.
      4.   No person shall paste, affix or inscribe any handbill, poster, card,
device or inscription to, upon, or against any fence, structure or property of
the area.
      5.   No person shall set up any booth, table, stand or other device for
vending or retailing any items or services without first obtaining a license
therefor from the city.
      6.   No person shall go or walk on any space in the Cordell fish and
wildlife management and public use area reserved for flowers or wildlife
conservation or otherwise invade any plot reserved by the city for trees,
shrubbery, grass, flowers, or any other purposes.
      7.   No person shall disturb or interfere with any legal activity
including camping, picnicking, fishing, hiking, walking, social gathering, or
program of any individual or group in the park.
      8.   No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind into any lake,
pond, stream or other place in the Cordell fish and wildlife management and
public use area. All trash shall be deposited in receptacles designed for that
purpose.
      9.   For the purpose of this subsection F, a person commits disorderly
conduct when, with intent to cause public alarm, nuisance, jeopardy or
violence, or knowingly or recklessly, creating a risk thereof, such person
commits any of the following prohibited acts:
         a.   Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent behavior.
         b.   Uses language, an utterance, or gesture, or engages in a display
or act that is obscene, physically threatening or menacing, or done in a manner
that is likely to inflict injury or incite an immediate breach of the peace.
         c.   Makes noise that is unreasonable, considering the nature and
purpose of the visitor's conduct, location, time of day or night, and other
factors what would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under the
circumstance.
         d.   Creates or maintains a hazardous or physically offensive
condition. (1997 Code § 11-214H)
   G.   Use Of Exotic Plants And Animals:
      1.   The possession, use for bait, release, or attempt to release any of
the following exotic fish or their eggs is prohibited in the Cordell reservoir
fish and wildlife management and public use area: walking catfish, grass carp,
bony-tongues, piranha group, electric eels, electric catfish, garpike
topminnow, shakehead groups, pavon or peacock bass, parasitic South American
catfish group, freshwater stingray group, houri, rudd and rudd hybrids, bighead
carp, silver carp, black carp, alewives, rainbow smelt, and tilapia.
      2.   The possession, use for bait, release, or attempt to release any
other exotic wildlife into the Cordell reservoir fish and wildlife management
and public use area is prohibited. (1997 Code § 11-214I)
   H.   Trespassing, Tampering And Vandalism: The following are prohibited. All
rules contained in this subsection apply, regardless of public or private
ownership, on all lands and waters within the Cordell fish and wildlife
conservation and public use area.
      1.   Trespass on any of the city water storage, treatment, handling,
transportation, or control structures, or any other area so designated as
closed to the public or as a no trespassing area.
      2.   Trespassing, entering or remaining in or upon property or real
property not open to the public, except with the express invitation or consent
of the person having lawful control of the property or real property.
      3.   Tampering or attempting to tamper with property or real property, or
moving, manipulating, or setting in motion any of the parts thereof, except
when such property is under one's lawful control or possession.
      4.   Vandalism or destroying, injuring or defacing or damaging property
or real property. (1997 Code § 11-214J)
   I.   Certain Motor Vehicles And Aircraft Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to enter with or drive any off road
motorcycle, or personal watercraft, including unlicensed three (3) wheel off
road vehicles, unlicensed four (4) wheel off road vehicles, tractors, farm
implements, motorcycles, personal water vehicles, or similar devices in or upon
any road, land, water, or wetlands in the Cordell reservoir fish and wildlife
management and public use area. The only exception to this requirement is that
prohibited vehicles may be used by city employees and contractors in carrying
out necessary maintenance, development and repair activities.
      2.   The following aircraft are prohibited: (1997 Code § 11-214K)
         a.   Powered or nonpowered aircraft.
         b.   Helicopters except in emergencies involving public safety or
serious property loss or pursuant to the terms of a permit issued by the city
administrator. (1997 Code § 11-214K; amd. 2014 Code)
   J.   Traffic Regulations: It is unlawful for any person to drive any motor
vehicle in or upon the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area
except upon clearly defined public roadways or public parking areas, or except
in cases of public necessity when authorized and directed to do so by officials
of the city. The speed of any motor vehicle shall not exceed ten (10) miles per
hour. (1997 Code § 11-214L)
   K.   Visiting Hours, Closure And Curfew:
      1.   Visiting Hours: Visiting hours within the area are twenty four (24)
hours per day throughout the year.
      2.   Closure And Curfew: All or part of the area may be permanently or
temporarily closed by the city administrator, consistent with applicable city
rules and regulations, for public health and safety, protection of the
environment, protection of natural and cultural resources, equitable allocation
and use of facilities, alleviating conflicts among visitor use facilities,
performance of city operation and management responsibilities, and specific
educational or scientific purposes. In addition to the aforementioned, the city
may:
         a.   Close all or a portion of the area to all public use or to a
specific use or activity.
         b.   Designate areas for specific uses or activities or impose
conditions or restrictions on a use or activity.
         c.   Terminate or relax a restriction or limit closure, designation,
condition or visitation hour restrictions. (1997 Code § 11-214M)
   L.   Sanitation: The following are prohibited in the Cordell reservoir fish
and wildlife conservation and public use area:
      1.   Disposing of refuse in any manner or in any area except refuse
receptacles.
      2.   Using the area's refuse receptacles for dumping household,
commercial or industrial refuse.
      3.   Disposing of refuse in plumbing fixtures or vaults of a toilet
facility.
      4.   Draining sewage and/or gray water from a trailer or recreational
vehicle, except in facilities provided for that purpose.
      5.   Washing food, clothing, dishes, or other property at public water
outlets, fixtures, pools, or natural lakes, reservoirs or streams, except in
areas designated for such purpose.
      6.   Disposing of fish remains on land, in waters, or in a toilet
facility.
      7.   Disposing human wastes in other than toilet facilities. (1997 Code §
11-214N)
   M.   Boating Restrictions:
      1.   The use of boats and fishing vessels shall be limited to the large
reservoir of the city fish and wildlife management and public use area. Only
those fishing vessels having a midline beam length of eighteen feet (18') or
less may be launched into the reservoir. Legal boats and fishing vessels
include kayaks, canoes, bass buggies, standard fishing boats, and individual
tube fishing floats. All fishing vessels, except individual tube fishing
floats, must be launched at designated boat launch areas. Only electric motors,
oars, sails, or paddles are allowed for propulsion of fishing vessels. No boat
shall produce a wake while being operated on the reservoir.
      2.   All fishing vessel trailers and towing vehicles shall be parked in
designated areas. The city administrator may post regulations restricting the
use of and/or the number of fishing vessels that may use the reservoir at one
time.
      3.   Boats and fishing vessels shall not enter areas that are designated
as aquatic habitat refuge zones.
      4.   The operation of boats and fishing vessels shall not interfere with
the legal fishing activities of other boaters or of bank or pier fishers. (1997
Code § 11-214O)
   N.   Swimming, Diving, Snorkeling, Etc.: It is unlawful to wade, swim, dive,
or use snorkel or scuba underwater swimming gear in any of the reservoirs,
creeks, wetlands or water treatment facilities of the Cordell fish and wildlife
management and public use area. (1997 Code § 11-214P)
   O.   Watchable Wildlife, Hiking And Trailway Regulations: The Cordell
watchable wildlife trail system is located to the north of the reservoir road
perimeter that surrounds the main reservoir and the downstream areas. This area
is specifically designated only for hiking, walking, and the viewing of
wildlife resources. Smoking and the use of fires or combustibles is prohibited
in the watchable wildlife area and trail system. All fires, including
cigarettes, are not allowed. The following regulations apply to this area and
its watchable wildlife trail system:
      1.   It is unlawful to disturb the area or any of its facilities
including signs, benches, and public information centers.
      2.   All users must stay on the watchable wildlife trailway. All other
sections of this area, except designated camping and parking zones, are closed
to public use.
      3.   Excessive noise is prohibited.
      4.   It is unlawful to disturb wildlife or their habitat.
      5.   It is unlawful to disturb or interfere with the legal pursuit of
wildlife viewing by other wildlife viewers or to disturb their property.
      6.   Do not litter. All litter must either be placed in trash barrels or
carried out. (1997 Code § 11-214Q)
      7.   Domestic animals are prohibited, except as certified for use by
persons with disabilities. (1997 Code § 11-214Q; amd. 2014 Code)
      8.   Motorized vehicles and bicycles are prohibited.
      9.   It is unlawful to collect or attempt to take wildlife, including
invertebrates, amphibians, reptiles, birds, fish, mammals, and plants
(including limbs, roots, leaves, fruits, berries, flowers, seeds, or
propagules), except on written permission by the city administrator and, as
appropriate, the Oklahoma department of wildlife conservation and/or the U.S.
fish and wildlife service. (1997 Code § 11-214Q)
   P.   Personal Property:
      1.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited in the Cordell reservoir
fish and wildlife management and public use area:
         a.   Leaving property unattended for longer than forty eight (48)
hours, except when authorized by permit from the city administrator.
         b.   Failure to turn in found property to the city administrator as
soon as practicable.
      2.   Impoundment Of Property:
         a.   Property, if left unattended in excess of forty eight (48) hours,
may be impounded by the city.
         b.   Unattended property that interferes with visitor safety or
orderly management of the park area or presents a threat to natural resources
may be impounded by the city.
         c.   Found or impounded property shall be inventoried to determine
ownership and safeguard such property. (1997 Code § 11-214R)
         d.   Fees shall be charged for the impoundment, removal, storage or
other disposition of property pursuant to this subsection P. The owner of
record is responsible and liable for all said charges. (1997 Code § 11-214R;
amd. 2014 Code)
         e.   Impoundment of motor vehicles and boats shall be conducted in
accordance with state law.
      3.   Disposal Of Property:
         a.   Unattended property impounded pursuant to this subsection P shall
be deemed to be abandoned unless claimed by the owner or an authorized
representative thereof within sixty (60) days. The sixty (60) day period shall
begin when the rightful owner of the property has been notified, if the owner
can be identified, or from the time the property was placed in the city's
custody, if the owner cannot be identified.
         b.   Unclaimed found property shall be stored a minimum of sixty (60)
days and, unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof,
may be claimed by the finder.
         c.   All unclaimed abandoned property shall become the property of the
city and shall be disposed of in the following manner:
            (1)   Property which can be utilized by the city for official
business and which has a value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more shall
be inventoried as city property and used by the city where such property may be
useful.
            (2)   Property which cannot be utilized for official city business
and which has a value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more shall be
inventoried as city property and liquidated under city regulations for disposal
of surplus property. (1997 Code § 11-214R)
   Q.   Gambling And Soliciting:
      1.   Gambling in any form, or the operation of gambling devices, for
money or anything of value is prohibited.
      2.   Soliciting is prohibited except as approved by the city
administrator. (1997 Code § 11-214S)
   R.   Special Events:
      1.   Sports events, pageants, shows, spectator attractions, amateur
recreational fishing tournaments, scientific field days, fish and wildlife
training seminars and field days, and similar events are allowed; provided,
that there is meaningful association between the area and the events, and the
observance contributes to the understanding of the significance of the area. A
permit therefor must be issued by city administrator before such special events
may be conducted. A request for a special event permit shall be denied if the
proposed activities would:
         a.   Cause injury or damage to facilities or overuse/overharvest of
natural resources.
         b.   Result in the sale of goods or services.
         c.   Unreasonably impair the atmosphere of peace and tranquility of
the environment of the area or its natural resources.
         d.   Unreasonably interfere with normal visitor services or program
activities.
         e.   Substantially impair the operation of public use facilities or
services.
         f.   Present a clear and present danger to public health and safety.
         g.   Result in significant conflict with other existing uses.
      2.   Persons wishing to make application for a special event permit shall
complete a written request which shall set forth the name of the applicant, the
date, time duration, nature, and place of the proposed event, an estimate of
the number of persons expected to attend, and any other information required by
the city administrator. The application shall be submitted no later than twenty
one (21) days prior to the commencement of the proposed event.
      3.   As a condition of permit issuance, the city administrator:
         a.   May require liability insurance of the applicant.
         b.   Shall require the purchase of a special use group permit and
other use permits as required by the current permitting regulations.
         c.   May require a cash payment in an amount equitable to cover the
cost of restoration, damage, cleanup, or other costs resulting from the event.
      4.   No such permits shall be issued for a period in excess of four (4)
days.
      5.   Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in
accordance with this subsection R is prohibited and may result in fines and the
suspension or revocation of the permit. (1997 Code § 11-214T)
   S.   Public Assemblies And Meetings; Distribution Of Printed Materials:
      1.   Public assemblies, meetings, gatherings, rallies, demonstrations,
the distribution of printed materials and other expressions of views are
allowed within the area, provided a permit for such events has been previously
issued by the city administrator.
      2.   Persons wishing to make application for such activity shall complete
a written application which shall set forth the name of the applicant, the
date, time, duration, nature and place of the proposed activity, and estimate
of the number of persons expected to attend, and any other relevant information
required by the city administrator. The application shall be submitted no later
than twenty one (21) days before the proposed commencement of the proposed
activity.
      3.   A request for a special public assembly permit shall be denied if
the proposed activities would:
         a.   Cause injury or damage to facilities or overuse/overharvest of
natural resources.
         b.   Result in the sale of goods or services.
         c.   Unreasonably impair the atmosphere of peace and tranquility of
the area's environment or its natural resources.
         d.   Unreasonably interfere with normal visitor services or program
activities.
         e.   Substantially impair the operation of public use facilities or
services.
         f.   Present a clear and present danger to public health and safety.
         g.   Result in significant conflict with other existing uses.
      4.   Persons wishing to make application for a special public assembly
permit shall complete a written request which shall set forth the name of the
applicant, the date, time duration, nature, and place of the proposed event, an
estimate of the number of persons expected to attend, and any other information
required by the city administrator. The application shall be submitted no later
than twenty one (21) days prior to the commencement of the proposed event.
      5.   As a condition of permit issuance, the city administrator:
         a.   May require liability insurance of the applicant.
         b.   Shall require the purchase of a special use group permit and
other use permits as required by the current permitting regulations.
         c.   May require a cash payment in an amount equitable to cover the
cost of restoration, damage, cleanup, or other costs resulting from the event.
      6.   No such permits shall be issued for a period more than four (4)
days.
      7.   Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in
accordance with this subsection S is prohibited and may result in fines and the
suspension or revocation of the permit. (1997 Code § 11-214U)
   T.   Camping And Day Use:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection T, the following
definitions for camping and associated functions shall apply:
   MODERN CAMPSITE: A site that may have such features as a table, grill,
electrical utility service, and access to restroom and water.
   PRIMITIVE CAMPSITE: A site or area where there are no utilities, sanitation
facilities or developments and is generally a significant distance from
services.
      2.   General Requirements: The city may establish permits and fees
associated with camping, recreational vehicle parking, and travel trailer
parking in the Cordell reservoir fish and wildlife conservation and public use
area. The city administrator may require permits, designate sites or areas, and
establish conditions for camping. Camping is allowed for a maximum of seven (7)
consecutive days. Reestablishing a camp will not be allowed for another seven
(7) days after the end of a seven (7) day camping period.
      3.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited:
         a.   Digging or leveling the ground at a campsite.
         b.   Hanging a propane or gas operated lantern on any tree or plant.
         c.   Leaving refuse or human waste after departing a campsite.
         d.   Camping within twenty five feet (25') of a water hydrant or
within ten feet (10') of a body of water, except as designated.
         e.   Creating or sustaining unreasonable noise between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. However, at any time of
the day or night, unreasonable noise will be considered by the nature and
purpose of the actor's conduct, impact on park users, location, disturbance of
wildlife, interference with the privacy and solitude of other users, and any
other factor(s) which would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person
under the circumstances as determined by an authorized area official.
         f.   The construction of permanent camping facilities or dwellings.
         g.   Failing to obtain required permits.
         h.   Connecting more than one water, electrical or sanitary connection
per campsite or connecting to a utility which exceeds its manufactured design
or capacity.
         i.   Camping in unauthorized sites or areas as defined by the city
administrator.
         j.   Parking a vehicle by occupying or otherwise blocking by any
manner any campsite, roadway, or another camping site or using the utility
services in a campsite without having first paid campsite or utility fees.
         k.   The placing or parking of two (2) or more recreational vehicles
on any site not designed for more than one recreational vehicle.
         l.   Camping longer than the time limits.
      4.   Penalty: Violation of the terms and conditions of this subsection T
or the terms and conditions of a permit is prohibited and may result in fines
and the suspension or revocation of the camping privilege. (1997 Code § 11-
214V)
8-8-8: FISHING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Means And Methods:
      1.   All waters of the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public
use area are closed to commercial fishing.
      2.   Only rod and reel and/or pole and line may be used to harvest all
game and nongame fish species and hybrids thereof from the main reservoir of
the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area. All other areas,
including the area's streams, tailwaters, ponds, and wetlands, are closed to
fishing.
      3.   No person may use more than two (2) poles and line or rods and reels
while fishing.
      4.   The use of the following means to harvest or attempt to harvest
aquatic organisms in all of the waters of the Cordell fish and wildlife
management and public use area are prohibited: bow and arrows, grabhooks, gigs,
spears, spearguns, snagging, noodling, yo-yos, seines, throw lines, juglines,
limblines, trotlines, gill nets, trammel nets, hoop nets, cast nets, trawl
nets, minnow traps, fish traps, handheld dip nets, and haul seines.
      5.   Only designated legal fish species and hybrids thereof may be
harvested.
      6.   It is illegal to take or attempt to take by any means or methods
bullfrogs, salamanders, aquatic plants, turtles, snakes (except as incidental
catch by legal fishing methods), and aquatic invertebrates. All such wildlife
incidentally caught must be immediately released back onto the reservoir from
where caught.
   B.   Legal Species: All species of fish that are present in the large
reservoir of the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area may
be harvested by all legal fishing methods as defined in this chapter.
   C.   Size Limits: Except as provided in subsection D of this section, there
are no length and/or size limit restrictions on game or nongame fish.
   D.   Daily Bag, Length And Possession Limits:
      1.   No person shall, during any one day, take, attempt to take, kill, or
harvest more than the following bag limits each day:
         a.   Largemouth, smallmouth, and/or spotted bass in the aggregate:
Effective Friday, May 5, 2000, all black bass (largemouth, spotted, and
smallmouth) from sixteen inches to twenty one inches (16" - 21") total length
must be returned to the reservoir unharmed immediately after being taken. No
person shall, during any one day, take, attempt to take, kill, or harvest more
than three (3) black bass that are less than sixteen inches (16") in total
length. No person shall, during any one day, take, attempt to take, kill, or
harvest more than one black bass longer than twenty one inches (21") in total
length.
         b.   Six (6) channel and/or blue catfish or six (6) in the aggregate.
There is no length limit on this group.
         c.   Ten (10) white and/or black crappie or ten (10) in the aggregate.
There is no length limit on this group.
         d.   Six (6) rainbow trout and/or brown trout, or six (6) in the
aggregate. There is no length limit on this group. (1997 Code § 11-215)
         e.   One northern pike and/or muskellunge. There is no length limit on
this group. (1997 Code § 11-215; amd. 2014 Code)
         f.   Three (3) walleye, sauger and/or saugeye, or three (3) in the
aggregate. There is no length limit on this group.
         g.   Two (2) striped bass, striped bass hybrids and/or white bass, or
two (2) in the aggregate. There is no length limit on this group.
         h.   One flathead catfish. There is no length limit on this group.
      2.   No person shall, during any one day, take, attempt to take, kill or
harvest more than one day's bag limit of fish.
   E.   Attended Fishing Gear: All fishing gear must be within visual observing
distance of the fisher.
   F.   Live Bait:
      1.   Fishers shall not release unused living bait animals into the waters
of the Cordell fish and wildlife management and public use area.
      2.   The possession or use of the following exotic fish or their eggs is
prohibited in the city reservoir fish and wildlife management and public use
area: walking catfish, grass carp, bony-tongues, piranha group, electric eels,
electric catfish, garpike topminnow, shakehead groups, pavon or peacock bass,
parasitic South American catfish group, freshwater stingray group, houri, rudd
and rudd hybrids, bighead carp, silver carp, black carp, alewives, rainbow
smelt, and tilapia. (1997 Code § 11-215)
8-8-9: SCIENTIFIC SURVEYS AND INVENTORIES:
   A.   Resource Surveys And Inventories: From time to time, as approved by the
city administrator, the city, either unilaterally or in cooperation with the
agencies of the U.S. government, agencies of the state of Oklahoma, private
vendors, or colleges and universities, may perform scientific studies,
research, and surveys and inventories of the well being, supply, and
composition of the living and nonliving wildlife resources, and geologic
features of the city reservoir fish and wildlife management and public use
area. (1997 Code § 11-216)
   B.   Public Use Surveys: From time to time, as approved by the city
administrator, the city, either unilaterally or in cooperation with agencies of
the federal government, agencies of the state of Oklahoma, private vendors, or
colleges and universities, may perform scientific studies, research, and
surveys and inventories of the public use of the various natural and manmade
components of the city reservoir fish and wildlife management and public use
area. (1997 Code § 11-217)
8-8-10: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT:
From time to time, as approved by the city administrator, the city, either
unilaterally or in cooperation with agencies of the federal government,
agencies of the state of Oklahoma, private vendors, or colleges and
universities, may implement measures for the conservation and management of the
wildlife resources and their habitats, the geologic features, and the public
use facilities of the city reservoir fish and wildlife management and public
use area. These conservation and management measures include, but are not
limited to, wildlife introduction, wildlife population and/or community
manipulation, and habitat manipulation. (1997 Code § 11-218)
CHAPTER 9
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Improvements To And Maintenance Of Public Ways Required
8-9-2: Trains Obstructing Crossings
8-9-3: Obstructing Passage Of Trains
8-9-4: Boarding, Climbing On Trains
8-9-1: IMPROVEMENTS TO AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of the street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet (2') on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is or
has been improved, or with such satisfactory materials as the city may approve.
      2.   When the tracks of a railway cross any street that is being or has
been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is occupied by its
track and two feet (2') on each side, using the same material which is or has
been used on the street, or such other satisfactory material as the city may
approve. When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of one
hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railway
company shall grade, gutter, drain and curb the street area between its tracks
and surface or pave it with the same material which the city will use or has
used on the street.
   B.   Alleys: In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with its
track or tracks, the company shall improve, gutter, drain and grade such alley,
and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is or has been used
on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the city may approve.
   C.   Sidewalks: Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their
rights of way using the same material which is used in adjacent sidewalks
insofar as is practicable under the circumstances. The railway company shall
construct sidewalks on both sides of the streets when both sides are used by
pedestrians.
   D.   Maintenance Requirements:
      1.   It is the duty of every owner of railroad tracks to maintain the
railroad tracks, roadbed, and right of way in a good condition for use by the
public when the railroad tracks and roadbed cross or intersect any public
street within the city.
      2.   Railway companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times. (1997 Code § 16-104)
   E.   Violations: The failure to perform such duties as are herein required
after thirty (30) days' written notice from the mayor shall be a violation, and
each day that the tracks and roadbed shall remain in an unsatisfactory
condition shall constitute a separate offense. (1997 Code § 16-104; amd. 2014
Code)
8-9-2: TRAINS OBSTRUCTING CROSSINGS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes. This section shall not apply to trains or cars in
motion, other than those engaged in switching. (1997 Code § 16-103)
8-9-3: OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF TRAINS:
Any person who wilfully or maliciously places any obstruction or any other
thing on the track of any railroad within the limits of the city, or who tears
up, removes, burns or destroys any part of such railroad, or the works thereof,
with intent to obstruct the passage of any engine or car thereon, or to throw
them off the track, is guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in this
code. (1997 Code § 16-102)
8-9-4: BOARDING, CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner
attach himself to any railway train, locomotive or railway car while such is in
motion within the city, unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to board any train or railroad car except
with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of the train or
car or in the line of duty. (1997 Code § 16-105)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC SERVICES
Lease Of Systems; General Provisions   1
Water Use Restrictions   2
Solid Waste Collection And Disposal   3
CHAPTER 1
LEASE OF SYSTEMS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Lease Of Utilities To Public Works Authority
9-1-2: Rules Of Authority Adopted
9-1-3: Identity Theft Protection
9-1-1: LEASE OF UTILITIES TO PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
The city hereby consents and agrees to the lease of the city's water, electric,
and sanitary sewer systems and facilities and all future additions thereto to
the New Cordell public works authority as authorized by statute, to be
effective at the time and upon the terms and conditions specified in a lease
agreement and operation and maintenance contract between the city and NCUA
prepared under the direction of the city council and filed in the office of the
city clerk on December 5, 1988. The mayor is hereby authorized and directed, on
behalf of the city, to execute and deliver the lease of the New Cordell public
works authority. (1997 Code § 17-101; amd. 2014 Code)
9-1-2: RULES OF AUTHORITY ADOPTED:
Rules and regulations adopted by the New Cordell public works authority are
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if set out
in full herein. Any violation of the rules and regulations of the authority
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 17-102)
9-1-3: IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to comply with 16 CFR section
681.2 in order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying
and detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a
manner that will prevent identity theft.
   B.   Sources And Types Of Red Flags: All employees responsible for or
involved in the process of opening a covered account, restoring a covered
account or accepting payment for a covered account shall check for red flags as
indicators of possible identity theft, and such red flags may include:
      1.   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers.
      2.   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
         a.   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered
or forged.
         b.   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer.
         c.   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer.
      3.   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address
change. Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
         a.   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
         b.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth.
         c.   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete.
      4.   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity include:
         a.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an
account, the city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on
the account.
         b.   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is
used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of
usage and other relevant factors).
         c.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's account.
         d.   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer's account.
         e.   The city is notified by a customer, law enforcement officer or
another person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in
identity theft.
      5.   Notice from customers, law enforcement officers, victims or other
reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to
covered accounts.
   C.   Updating Program: The city council shall periodically review and, as
deemed necessary by the city council, update the identity theft prevention
program along with any relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks
to customers or to the safety and soundness of the city and its covered
accounts from identity theft. In so doing, the city council shall consider the
following factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      1.   The city's experiences with identity theft;
      2.   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      3.   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      4.   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains;
and
      5.   Updates in service provider arrangements.
   D.   Administration Of Program:
      1.   The city clerk is responsible for oversight of the program and for
program implementation. The city administrator is responsible for reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and
with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion
of the city administrator, to address changing identity theft risks and to
identify new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended
material changes to the program shall be submitted to the city council for
consideration thereby.
      2.   The city clerk will report to the city administrator, at least
annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address
material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
         a.   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of city in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
         b.   Service provider arrangements;
         c.   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response; and
         d.   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
      3.   The city clerk is responsible for providing training to all
employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program. The city clerk shall exercise his or her discretion
in determining the amount and substance of training necessary. (Ord. 2009-02,
4-27-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Authority Of Mayor In Emergencies
9-2-2: Determination Of Emergency
9-2-1: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR IN EMERGENCIES:
Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to inadequate
supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of equipment or
materials, the mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit the use of
water from the city water system. (1997 Code § 17-121)
9-2-2: DETERMINATION OF EMERGENCY:
An emergency exists whenever the mayor reasonably determines that the city
water system is unable to or will, within sixty (60) days, become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection. (1997 Code § 17-122)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Duty To Request Service
9-3-3: Container Requirements
9-3-4: Tree Limbs And Debris
9-3-5: Collection And Disposal
9-3-6: Unlawful Use Of Containers
9-3-7: City Landfill
9-3-8: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:
   GARBAGE: All putrescible waste, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and carcasses of small animals and fowl from
any premises within the city.
   PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs, leaves, and similar
materials from any premises within the city.
   RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuselike materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse. (1997 Code § 17-
201)
9-3-2: DUTY TO REQUEST SERVICE:
It is the duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of
any premises in the city to notify the city at the beginning of such occupancy
and request, accept and use the refuse collection service of the city. Failure
of any owner, rental agent or occupant of any premises to make such request
shall not prevent nor impair or impede the city from adding that person's name
to the refuse collection records and providing such service and otherwise
enforcing, by appropriate action, the regulatory measures herein prescribed.
(1997 Code § 17-206)
9-3-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Required: It is the duty of every person owning, managing,
operating, leasing, occupying or renting any premises or any place where refuse
accumulates to provide, and at all times maintain in good order and repair, on
the premises, a portable container or containers for refuse.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   The container shall be rodentproof and flyproof and be of sufficient
capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate and securely keep all of the
refuse that may accumulate between collections except where approved type bulk
containers are in use. (1997 Code § 17-202)
      2.   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, occupying or
renting any premises shall provide a metal or other satisfactory weatherproof
container for the disposal of garbage, refuse and rubbish in the city. The
container shall be a polycart or such other container approved by the city or
its contractor. (1997 Code § 17-203)
   C.   Maintenance Required: All containers shall be kept clean and free from
accumulation of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container
which would attract flies, mosquitoes or any other insects.
   D.   Use Of Bulk Containers: All refuse shall be transported to and emptied
into the bulk containers where they are provided. (1997 Code § 17-202)
   E.   Commercial And Institutional Establishments: Commercial and
institutional establishments shall use containers as are necessary to keep the
premises in a sanitary condition and such as may be approved by the city
council.
   F.   Placement At Curb: The containers shall be placed at curbside for
collection on the regular collection days in a location mutually convenient to
the resident and the refuse collector. (1997 Code § 17-203)
9-3-4: TREE LIMBS AND DEBRIS:
Tree limbs shall be cut into lengths not exceeding three and one-half feet (31/
2') prior to pick up by the city. Tree limbs may be placed at curbside when
tied in bundles not to exceed three and one-half feet (31/2') in length. No
limbs shall be greater in diameter than three inches (3"). The bundle shall not
exceed the maximum size to be placed in a packer truck by one person. The city
council may, from time to time, adopt regulations governing the pick up of
other items of debris not provided for herein. (1997 Code § 17-203)
9-3-5: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
The city or its agents shall collect garbage, trash, debris, rubbish and refuse
as provided herein over routes approved by the city when such refuse is placed
in proper containers as prescribed by the city. The disposal of garbage and
rubbish shall be by landfill and daily cover. (1997 Code §§ 17-203, 17-204)
9-3-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTAINERS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to dispose of garbage, refuse,
rubbish or waste into any refuse container, dumpster or other receptacle for
the deposit of same belonging to or leased by another, whether by rental
agreement, lease or agreement with the city or a public or private trash,
garbage or refuse hauling service, without the permission of the owner, lessee
or other person entitled to the possession or use thereof. (1997 Code § 10-328)
9-3-7: CITY LANDFILL:
Use of the city landfill shall be subject to such regulations as the city from
time to time shall prescribe. (1997 Code § 17-207)
9-3-8: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
(1997 Code § 17-208)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
Building Codes   1
General Building Regulations   2
Plumbing Regulations   3
Electrical Regulations   4
Mechanical Regulations   5
Gas Piping Regulations   6
Manufactured Homes And Subdivisions;
Nonresidential Mobile Trailers   7
Historic Resources Planning And Preservation   8
Flood Control   9
Oil And Gas Regulations   10
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Codes Adopted
10-1-2: Additional Fire Code Provisions
10-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes, one copy of each being on file in the office of the city
building inspector, are hereby adopted as the codes of the city for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said codes on file in the city
office are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this section:
International building code, 2009 edition.
International residential code, 2009 edition.
International fire code, 2009 edition.
International plumbing code, 2009 edition.
International mechanical code, 2009 edition.
International fuel gas code, 2009 edition.
International existing building code, 2009 edition.
International energy conservation code, 2012 edition.
International property maintenance code, 2012 edition.
National electrical code, 2011 edition.
(Ord. 2008-03, 11-17-2008; amd. 2014 Code)
10-1-2: ADDITIONAL FIRE CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Amendments To Code: The name of the city shall be inserted in the fire
code adopted in section
 10-1-1 of this chapter where applicable. (1997 Code § 13-103)
   B.   Interpretation:
      1.   The provisions of the fire code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter, in their interpretation and application, shall be held
to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public health, safety,
and general welfare. (1997 Code § 13-104; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Wherever any of the provisions or requirements of the fire code
adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter are inconsistent with the provisions of the city code or
state statutes presently existing or enacted in the future, the provisions or
requirements containing the most restrictive regulation shall apply and govern.
(1997 Code § 13-104)
   C.   New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Requiring Permits: The building
official, the chief of the fire department and the mayor shall act as a
committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the fire code
adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter. The fire chief shall post such list in a conspicuous
place in his office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (1997
Code § 13-106)
   D.   Authority To Modify: The fire chief, with the approval of the mayor and
city council, shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the fire
code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter upon application in writing by the building owner or
lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of said fire code; provided, that the
spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modifications, when granted, shall be
entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant. (1997 Code § 13-105; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Appeals: Whenever the fire chief or his designee shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit or license applied for, or when it is
claimed that the provisions of the fire code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal to
the city council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed
from. (1997 Code § 13-107)
   F.   Enforcement: The fire code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter shall be enforced by the division of fire prevention in
the fire department, which is hereby established and which shall be operated
under the supervision of the chief of the fire department. (1997 Code § 13-102;
amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Building Contractors
10-2-2: Permit Requirements
10-2-3: Fire Limits
10-2-4: Street Names And Building Numbers
10-2-5: Carports
10-2-1: GENERAL BUILDING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a general contractor or general building
contractor within the City limits unless he has first registered as such with
the City building inspector. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001)
   B.   Registration Fee: The registration fee to be paid to the City Clerk
shall be as set by the City Council by motion or resolution, and payment of the
fee shall be made with the application. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
general contractors shall be satisfactory to the City and shall meet all
requirements established by State law prior to the issuance of a license or
registration.
   D.   Expiration Of Registration: All registrations shall expire on June 30
of each year.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001)
10-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Building Contractors:
      1.   Permit Required: No general contracting work or construction, unless
excepted by subsection B of this section, shall be undertaken prior to the
issuance of a permit therefor by the building inspector.
      2.   Inspections:
         a.   Upon completion of the general contractor's work, it shall be the
duty of the person, firm or corporation acting as such general contractor to
notify the building inspector, and the inspector shall inspect the work within
twenty four (24) hours or as soon as is practically possible after the notice
is given.
         b.   If, upon inspection, it is found that any part of the work does
not comply with chapter 1 of this title, the building inspector shall give
notice in writing of the violation to the person, firm or corporation to whom
the permit is issued.
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings: Any permit required by this section may be
issued to any person to do any work required by chapter 1 of this title in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings,
provided the person is the bona fide owner of such dwelling and that the same
will be occupied by the owner and that the owner shall personally purchase all
materials and perform all labor in connection therewith. The building inspector
must inspect the work to see that it complies with chapter 1 of this title, and
the owner shall pay the regular fees for permits as set out in the fee
schedule. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001)
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee: Application for a permit under this
section shall be made on suitable forms provided by the building inspector. The
application shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with the schedule set by
the City. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2001-7, 10-2001)
10-2-3: FIRE LIMITS:
The boundaries of the fire limits of the City shall be as established by the
City Council. (1997 Code § 5-104)
10-2-4: STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbers Required; Designation: All buildings and houses in the City
shall be numbered. It shall be the duty of the owner of any house or building
in the City to have such house or building numbered in accordance with this
section. The Mayor is responsible for designating the proper numbers for houses
and buildings.
   B.   Baselines:
      1.   The north and south baseline shall be Church Street. All buildings
east of the baseline shall be known and numbered as east, and all buildings
west of the baseline shall be known and numbered as west.
      2.   The east and west baseline shall be Main Street. All buildings north
of this line shall be known and numbered as north, and all buildings south of
this baseline shall be known and numbered as south.
   C.   Determination Of Numbers:
      1.   There shall be one hundred (100) numbers applicable to each block,
commencing with 1 on the odd side and 2 on the even side of the street. Each
twenty five feet (25') of frontage on each block shall be entitled to a
separate number. The first block from the baseline in either direction shall be
given numbers from 1 to 100, and the second block shall be given numbers from
100 to 200, and so on in consecutive order by one hundred (100) to each block
in succession.
      2.   The even numbers shall be on the east sides of the streets extending
north and south, and on the south sides of the streets extending east and west.
The odd numbers shall be on the opposite sides of such streets.
      3.   The affix 1/2 shall be added to the last preceding number in
designating stairways or garage apartments.
   D.   Amendments: In situations where the plat or pattern of the area does
not fit this numbering system, the Planning Commission shall study the area and
recommend to the City Council for adoption of an appropriate amendment to this
section. (1997 Code § 5-106)
10-2-5: CARPORTS:
   A.   Defined: A carport is hereby defined as a roofed shed with open sides
used primarily as a shelter for cars.
   B.   Provisions And Standards Regarding Carports: Carports constructed and
used within the City of New Cordell shall be subject to and conform to the
following provisions and standards:
      1.   A building permit is required for the construction of a carport
within the City of New Cordell.
      2.   A carport shall be located only over an existing driveway if the
carport is located in the front yard setback area of a residence.
      3.   A carport shall not exceed the width of the driveway over which it
is erected plus an additional two feet (2'). All roof width measurements shall
be taken from the eave line.
      4.   A carport shall be kept in good repair and in a safe and sanitary
condition.
      5.   A carport shall be constructed, erected or installed in strict
conformity with all building requirements including but not limited to the
materials used in the construction of the carport as contained and set forth in
the City of New Cordell Building Code.
      6.   Carports extending into the front yard setback area shall not be
more than ten feet (10') in height or be less than six feet (6') in height as
measured from the ground to the eave line. A carport shall not exceed twenty
four feet (24') in total length.
      7.   A carport shall be at least ten feet (10') from the right- of-way
line and the side yard at least two and one-half feet (21/2') from the right-
of-way or boundary line; provided, however, no carport shall be erected that
impairs or obstructs sight line as set out in subsection B7a of this section.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to provide diagrams and/or
drawings showing compliance with the sight line requirements.
         a.   Corner Lots: On any corner lot on which a front and side yard
exists or is required, no carport which obstructs sight lines at elevations
between two feet six inches (2'6") and six feet (6') above any portion of the
crown of the adjacent roadway shall be allowed.
      8.   No carport shall be used for the storage of materials, equipment and
goods, or for the parking and/or storage of any inoperable or junk vehicles;
provided, however, garbage and/or recycling containers provided by the City of
New Cordell may be placed under the carport.
      9.   Currently existing carport shall not be subject to the provisions of
this section. However, should an existing carport be destroyed or torn down for
any reason this section shall apply to new construction.
   C.   Violations: Violation of subsection B of this section shall be
punishable by fine for each day the violation is allowed to continue and may
result in the removal of the carport upon conviction by the New Cordell
Municipal Court. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-16-2018, eff. 2-15-2018)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Plumbing Contractors
10-3-2: Permit Requirements
10-3-3: Inspections
10-3-4: Payment Of Fees
10-3-5: Sewer Backup Relief Device
10-3-6: Violation; Penalty
10-3-1: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor, a journeyman plumber,
or a plumber's apprentice unless he is registered as such with the plumbing
inspector of the city as required in the city's plumbing code. (1997 Code § 5-
203)
   B.   Registration Fees Required: The registration fee to be paid to the city
clerk is required for plumbing contractors and shall accompany the application.
   C.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
plumbing contractors shall be satisfactory to the city and shall meet the
requirements established by state law prior to the issuance of a certificate of
registration.
   D.   Expiration Of Registration: All registration certificates shall expire
on June 30 of each year. (1997 Code § 5-203; amd. 2014 Code)
10-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Plumbing Contractors: No plumbing work, unless excepted in this
section, shall be undertaken prior to the issuance of a permit therefor by the
plumbing inspector. A permit shall be issued to a registered plumbing
contractor only, except as provided in this section. (1997 Code § 5-204)
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings: Any permit required by this section may be
issued to any person to do any work required by this chapter and chapter 1 of
this title in a single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes,
including the usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such
buildings, provided the person is the bona fide owner of such dwelling, and
that the same will be occupied by the owner, and that the owner shall
personally purchase all materials and perform all labor in connection
therewith. The plumbing inspector must inspect the work to see that it complies
with this chapter and chapter 1 of this title, and the owner shall pay the
regular fees for permits as set out in the fee schedule. (1997 Code § 5-205)
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee: Application for a permit for plumbing work
shall be made on suitable forms provided by the plumbing inspector. The
application shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with the schedule set by
the city. (1997 Code § 5-206)
10-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Upon the completion of the installation of any plumbing device or
equipment, it shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation installing
same to notify the plumbing inspector, and the inspector shall inspect the
installation within twenty four (24) hours or as soon as is practically
possible after notice is given. (1997 Code § 5-204; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   If, upon inspection, it is found that any part of the installation does
not comply with the provisions of this chapter and chapter 1 of this title, the
inspector shall give notice in writing of the violation to the person, firm or
corporation to whom the permit is issued. (1997 Code § 5-204)
10-3-4: PAYMENT OF FEES:
All fees provided in this chapter shall be paid to the city clerk for deposit
to the account of the city. (1997 Code § 5-203)
10-3-5: SEWER BACKUP RELIEF DEVICE:
A sewer backup relief device (as approved by the building inspector) shall be
installed in all sewer cleanouts for all new construction and for all repair or
replacement of existing drainage pipe cleanouts. An example will be on file in
the building inspector's office. (Ord. 2005-02, 5-2-2005)
10-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 5-207)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Electrical Contractors
10-4-2: Permit Requirements
10-4-3: Inspections
10-4-4: Payment Of Fees
10-4-5: Violation; Penalty
10-4-1: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   State License And City Registration Required: No person shall practice
or engage in the business, trade or occupation of an electrical contractor,
journeyman electrician or electrician's apprentice unless he holds a current
license obtained from the state and is registered as such with the electrical
inspector of the city as required in the state electrical license law. (1997
Code § 5-304)
   B.   Registration Fee Required: The registration fee for electrical
contractors shall be set by the city and shall accompany the application.
   C.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements for
electrical contractors shall be satisfactory to the city and shall meet the
requirements established by state law prior to the issuance of a certificate of
registration.
   D.   Expiration Of Registration: All registration certificates shall expire
on June 30 of each year. (1997 Code § 5-304; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Nontransferability Of Registration: No registration issued in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be transferable. Any
holder of a license who shall permit or allow same to be used by any other
party to obtain a permit to do electrical work as specified in this chapter and
chapter 1 of this title shall be subject to having such license revoked by the
city council. (1997 Code § 5-305)
10-4-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Electrical Contractors: Before any electrical wiring, device or
equipment, subject to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title, is altered or
repaired, a permit therefor must be obtained from the electrical inspector. The
permit shall state the location of the work to be done, a description of the
work and whether it will consist of a new installation, or addition or repair
or alteration of an old installation, and the name of the owner or occupant of
the building or premises. Unless the permit is for work exempted in this
section, the permit shall be issued only in the name of a licensed electrical
contractor upon the presentation of an application by the contractor in person.
An agent or employee of the contractor shall not be allowed to act on behalf of
the contractor. The permit, when issued, shall be for such installation as
described in the application, and no deviation shall be made from the
installation so described without the written approval of the electrical
inspector. (1997 Code § 5-302)
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings: Any permit required by this section may be
issued to any person to do any work required by chapter 1 of this title in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings,
provided the person is the bona fide owner of such dwelling, and that the same
will be occupied by the owner, and that the owner shall personally purchase all
materials and perform all labor in connection therewith. The electrical
inspector must inspect the work to see that it complies with chapter 1 of this
title, and the owner shall pay the regular fees for permits set out in the fee
schedule. (1997 Code § 5-306)
   C.   Permit Fees: Before any permit is granted for the installation,
alteration or repair of any electrical wiring, device or equipment, the person,
firm or corporation making application for such permit shall pay to the city a
fee in the amount set by the city. (1997 Code § 5-303)
10-4-3: INSPECTIONS:
If, upon inspection, it is found that any part of the installation does not
comply with the provisions of chapter 1 of this title, the inspector shall give
notice in writing of the violation to the person, firm or corporation to whom
the permit was issued. (1997 Code § 5-302)
10-4-4: PAYMENT OF FEES:
All fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid to the city clerk for
deposit to the account of the city. (1997 Code § 5-303)
10-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 5-307)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Mechanical Contractors
10-5-2: Permit Requirements
10-5-3: Payment Of Fees
10-5-4: Violation; Penalty
10-5-1: MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall practice or engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a mechanical contractor, a mechanical
journeyman, or a mechanical apprentice unless he is registered as such with the
city as required in the city mechanical code. (1997 Code § 5-805)
   B.   Registration Fee Required: The registration fee to be paid to the city
clerk is required for mechanical contractors and shall accompany the
application.
   C.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: Bond and insurance requirements of
mechanical contractors shall be satisfactory to the city council and shall meet
the requirements established by state law prior to the issuance of a
certificate of registration.
   D.   Expiration Of Registration: All registration certificates shall expire
on June 30 of each year. (1997 Code § 5-805; amd. 2014 Code)
   E.   Nontransferability Of Registration: No registration issued in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be transferable. Any
holder of a registration who shall permit or allow same to be used by any other
party to obtain a permit to do mechanical work as specified in chapter 1 of
this title shall be subject to having such registration revoked by the city.
(1997 Code § 5-806)
10-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mechanical Contractors: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to install, alter or repair any mechanical device or equipment,
subject to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title, without first securing a
permit therefor from the city, stating the location of the work to be done, a
description of the work and whether it will consist of a new installation, or
addition thereto, and the name of the owner or occupant of the building or
premises. The permit, when issued, shall be to such person. The permits, when
issued, shall be for such installation as described in the application, and no
deviation shall be made from the installation as described without the written
approval of the city. (1997 Code § 5-803)
   B.   Single-Family Dwellings: Any permit required by this section may be
issued to any person to do any work required by chapter 1 of this title in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings,
provided the person is the bona fide owner of such dwelling, and that the same
will be occupied by the owner, and that the owner shall personally purchase all
materials and perform all labor in connection therewith. The mechanical
inspector must inspect the work to see that it complies with chapter 1 of this
title, and the owner shall pay the regular fees for permits set out in the fee
schedule. (1997 Code § 5-807; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Permit Fees: Before any permit is granted for the installation,
alteration or repair of any mechanical device or equipment, the person, firm or
corporation making application for such permit shall pay to the city a fee as
set by the city. (1997 Code § 5-804)
10-5-3: PAYMENT OF FEES:
All fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid to the city clerk for
deposit to the account of the city. (1997 Code § 5-804)
10-5-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 5-808)
CHAPTER 6
GAS PIPING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Gas Fitters
10-6-2: Permit Requirements For Single-Family Dwellings
10-6-3: Permit Fees
10-6-4: Violation; Penalty
10-6-1: GAS FITTERS:
No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation of a
gas fitter unless he holds a current Oklahoma plumbing contractor's license or
a current Oklahoma mechanical contractor's license and obtains from the city
clerk a gas fitter's registration certificate. The fee for such registration or
renewal is the same provided for the plumbing contractor or mechanical
contractor pursuant to this title. (1997 Code § 5-402)
10-6-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to any person to do any work
required by chapter 1 of this title in a single-family dwelling used
exclusively for living purposes, including the usual accessory building and
quarters in connection with such buildings, provided the person is a bona fide
owner of such dwelling and that the same will be occupied by the owner, and
that the owner shall personally purchase all materials and perform all labor in
connection therewith. The plumbing inspector must inspect the work to see that
it complies with chapter 1 of this title, and the owner shall pay the regular
fees for permits as set out in the fee schedule. (1997 Code § 5-403)
10-6-3: PERMIT FEES:
Before a permit shall be issued by the plumbing or mechanical inspector for new
installation of gas piping, repair or replacement of existing piping, or the
installation of gas fired equipment, fees as set by the city shall be paid to
the city clerk. (1997 Code § 5-402)
10-6-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall do any act prohibited by this chapter or fail or refuse to
comply therewith or fail or refuse to obey a lawful order of the inspector
shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 5-404)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND SUBDIVISIONS; NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Definitions
10-7-2: Permitted Placement
10-7-3: Construction Specifications
10-7-4: Permitted Uses In Zoning Districts
10-7-5: Installation Standards
10-7-6: Nonconforming Homes
10-7-7: Structural Additions Or Alterations
10-7-8: Manufactured Home Subdivisions
10-7-9: Nonresidential Mobile Trailers
10-7-10: Violation; Penalty
10-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, words, and phrases shall
have the meanings indicated in this section:
   ANSI/NFPA 501: A standard for installation of (manufactured) mobile homes.
The term "ANSI/NFPA 501: A Standard For Installation Of (Manufactured) Mobile
Homes" shall mean those model mobile (manufactured) homes as adopted and
copyrighted by the National Fire Protection Association and the Manufactured
Housing Institute.
   ADD A ROOM UNIT: A unit of manufactured housing, not designated as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM: An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties, or other approved material used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   APPROVED: Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   BUILDING CODE: The officially adopted building code in effect within the
city of New Cordell, Oklahoma.
   EXPANDO UNIT: An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION CODE: The "Standard For Permanent Installation Of Manufactured
Homes".
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING: A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material, such as aluminum, cement, board, treated wood, or
other approved material, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the manufactured
or mobile home.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated health authority of the city of New
Cordell (or his authorized representative), or the authorized representative of
the Washita County health department, the state department of health or the
state department of environmental quality.
   INSPECTION OFFICER: The building official of the city of New Cordell,
Oklahoma, or his authorized agent.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the federal
manufactured housing construction and safety standards code. The three (3)
types of manufactured homes (type I, type II, and type III) are defined as
meeting all of the requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARD CODE: Title VI of the
1974 housing and community development act (42 USC 5401 et seq.), as amended
(previously known as the federal mobile home construction and safety act),
rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information provided by the
home manufacturer which has been stamped and approved by a design approval
inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. department of housing and urban
development pursuant to HUD rules), which became effective for mobile/
manufactured homes constructed on June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME: A transportable structure larger than three hundred twenty
(320) square feet, designed to be used as a year round residential dwelling,
and built prior to the enactment of the federal mobile home construction and
safety act of 1974, which became effective for all mobile home construction
June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land on which two (2) or more manufactured or
mobile homes are occupied as residences.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of a mobile home travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other than
residential and is not being offered for sale as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer.
   OCCUPIED SPACE: The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios, and porches.
   PARK: A mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle park.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION: Any structure system for transporting loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE: A permanent perimeter system completely
enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the ground.
   PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM: Any system built and owned by, or dedicated to
and accepted by, the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma, or the New Cordell utility
authority. All other systems shall be deemed private systems.
   RURAL AREA: Any area within the existing corporate boundaries of the city of
New Cordell, Oklahoma, which is zoned agriculturally. This shall not include
areas zoned for low density residential estate type uses.
SECTION: A unit of a manufactured home at least ten (10) body feet in width and
thirty (30) body feet in length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT: A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM: A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates, and
shims which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
   URBAN: All areas within the existing or future corporate boundaries of the
city of New Cordell, Oklahoma, zoned for urban intensity development. (Ord.
2002-02, 3-4-2002; amd. 2014 Code)
10-7-2: PERMITTED PLACEMENT:
   A.   Type I Manufactured Homes: The establishment, location, and use of type
I manufactured homes as permanent residences shall be permitted in any zone
permitting installation of a dwelling unit, subject to the requirements and
limitations applying generally to such residential use in the district, and
provided such homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations:
      1.   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance
standards, as hereinafter set forth.
      2.   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted in section
10-7-4 of this chapter.
      3.   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform to the
comprehensive plan and other ordinances of the city, if applicable.
   B.   Types II And III Manufactured Homes; Special Exception Permit
Requirements:
      1.   The establishment, location, and use of type II or type III
manufactured homes as permanent residences may be allowed by special exception
permit in the specified areas (as appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified
herein), subject to the requirements and limitations applying generally to such
residential use in the district, and provided such homes shall meet the
following requirements and limitations:
         a.   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance
standards, as hereinafter set forth.
         b.   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is
permitted in section
10-7-4 of this chapter.
         c.   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and conform to
the comprehensive plan and other ordinances of the city.
      2.   Application for a special exception permit to place a type II or
type III manufactured home in specified areas shall be made, in writing, by the
property owner to the city planning commission. Applications shall include the
following:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant;
         b.   Location and legal description of the property for which the
special exception permit is being requested;
         c.   Description, line drawing, or photograph of the proposed
manufactured home; and
         d.   Plot plan showing the location of all current and proposed
structures on the property, property lines, easements, and measured setbacks
from property lines. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
      3.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a special exception
permit, permit fees, and publication costs, the city administrator or designee
will: (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002; amd. 2014 Code)
         a.   Review application for completeness and compliance with this
chapter, zoning codes, and setback requirements;
         b.   Cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, a notice of public hearing for the special exception permit; and
         c.   Schedule the aforementioned public hearing before the planning
commission during the commission's next scheduled meeting, but not less than
ten (10) days after publication of the notice of public hearing.
      4.   After conducting a public hearing, the planning commission will
determine the appropriateness of the application and take action to approve or
deny the special exception permit.
      5.   The applicant must pay a permit fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00),
plus the cost of publishing a onetime notice of public hearing. (Ord. 2002-02,
3-4-2002)
10-7-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Type I Manufactured Home: Type I manufactured homes shall:
      1.   Have more than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of occupied
space in a typically double section or larger multisection unit.
      2.   Be placed on a permanent foundation.
      3.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in this chapter.
      4.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the city's codes and
the manufacturer's specifications.
      5.   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed.
      6.   Have utilities connected in accordance with the local codes and
manufacturer's specifications.
      7.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site constructed
residences.
      8.   Have a roofing material of a type customarily used on site
constructed residences.
      9.   Have an open, covered, and/or enclosed parking structure that is
compatible with other housing in the immediate area, and all parking surfaces
shall be hard surfaced.
   B.   Type II Manufactured Homes: Type II manufactured homes shall:
      1.   Have more than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double, expando, or multisection unit (including those with
add a room units).
      2.   Be placed on a permanent foundation.
      3.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in this chapter.
      4.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the city's codes and
the manufacturer's specifications.
      5.   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed.
      6.   Have utilities connected in accordance with the local codes and
manufacturer's specifications.
      7.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site constructed
residences.
      8.   Have a roofing material of a type customarily used on site
constructed residences.
      9.   Have an open, covered, and/or enclosed parking structure that is
compatible with other housing in the immediate area, and all parking surfaces
shall be hard surfaced.
   C.   Type III Manufactured Homes: Type III manufactured homes shall:
      1.   Have more than four hundred (400) square feet of occupied space in a
single, double, expando, or multisection unit (including those with add a room
units).
      2.   Be placed on a support system in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in this chapter.
      3.   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in this chapter.
      4.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications and local codes.
      5.   Have utilities connected in accordance with the local codes and
manufacturer's specifications. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-4: PERMITTED USES IN ZONING DISTRICTS:
Manufactured homes are permitted uses, as follows:
   A.   General Agricultural District (A-G): Permitted uses in the A-G district
are types I, II, and III manufactured homes. Mobile homes may be permitted with
a special exception permit.
   B.   Single-Family Residential District (R-S): Permitted uses in the R-
S district are type I manufactured homes. Type II and type III manufactured
homes may be permitted with a special exception permit only in specified areas
as indicated in appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   General Residential District (R-G): Permitted uses in the R-G district
are type I manufactured homes. Type II and type III manufactured homes may be
permitted with a special exception permit only in specified areas as indicated
in appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified herein. Mobile homes are
prohibited.
   D.   Convenience Commercial District (C-C): The C-C district allows no
permitted uses. Types I, II, and III manufactured homes are not encouraged but
may be permitted with a special exception permit only in specified areas as
indicated in appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified herein. Mobile homes
are prohibited.
   E.   Automotive Commercial And Commercial Recreation District (C-A/R): The
C-A/R district allows no permitted uses. Types I, II, and III manufactured
homes are not encouraged but may be permitted with a special exception permit
only in specified areas as indicated in appendix 1 attached to the ordinance
codified herein. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   F.   General Commercial District (C-G): The C-G districts allows no
permitted uses. Types I, II, and III manufactured homes are not encouraged but
may be permitted with a special exception permit only in specified areas as
indicated in appendix 1 attached to the ordinance codified herein. Mobile homes
are prohibited.
   G.   Light Industrial District (I-L): The I-L district allows no permitted
uses, and all uses are prohibited.
   H.   Heavy Industrial District (I-H): The I-H district allows no permitted
uses, and all uses are prohibited.
   I.   Manufactured Home Subdivision (MHS): Permitted uses in a manufactured
home subdivision are type I and type II manufactured homes. Type III
manufactured homes and mobile homes are prohibited. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-5: INSTALLATION STANDARDS:
Manufactured and mobile home installation standards are as follows:
   A.   Permanent Perimeter Enclosure: Those manufactured homes designated in
this chapter as requiring permanent perimeter enclosure must be set on an
excavated footing, with a permanent perimeter enclosure. Foundations, footings,
and crawl space or basement walls must be constructed in accordance with the
terms of the foundation code. Except for required openings, the space between
the floor joists of the home and the underfloor grade shall be completely
enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure.
   B.   Foundation Siding/Skirting: All manufactured homes without a permanent
perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting enclosing
the entire perimeter of the home. Foundation siding/skirting and backup framing
shall be weather resistant, noncombustible or self-extinguishing materials
which blend with the exterior siding of the home. Below grade level and at
least six inches (6") above finish grade, the materials shall be unaffected by
decay or oxidation. The siding shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer's recommendations or approved equal standards. The siding shall be
ventilated by openings, which shall have a net area of not less than one and
one-half (11/2) square feet for each twenty five (25) linear feet of exterior
perimeter. The openings shall be covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh not
less than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension. The underfloor area shall be
provided with an eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") minimum size
access crawl hole which shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts, or other
construction interfering with the accessibility of the underfloor space or
other approved access mechanism.
   C.   Support System: All HUD code type I and type II manufactured home load
bearing foundations shall be installed in conformance with the regulations in
the foundation code and with the manufacturer's installation specifications.
All HUD code type III manufactured homes and all mobile homes not placed on a
permanent foundation shall be installed on a support system in conformance with
the manufacturer's installation specifications or with the foundation code.
(Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-6: NONCONFORMING HOMES:
A manufactured or mobile home placed and maintained on a tract of land and
deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the effective date hereof shall
continue to be a legal nonconforming use. If the nonconforming use is
discontinued, the land thereafter must be used in conformity with all
provisions of this code. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-7: STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS:
Due to its integral design, the building inspector or other authorized
administrative official of the city must approve any structural alteration or
modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed on the site.
All structural additions shall comply with the city's building codes. (Ord.
2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-8: MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With City Regulations: Manufactured home subdivisions shall
comply with the adopted subdivision regulations and zoning ordinance of the
city, except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Minimum Size: The minimum size of a manufactured home subdivision shall
be ten (10) acres.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: Type III manufactured homes and mobile homes are not
permitted in manufactured home subdivisions. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-9: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS:
   A.   Approval And License Required: No nonresidential mobile trailer shall
be permitted in the city, unless the city planning commission approves its
operation and a license is issued.
   B.   Ineligibility For License: No license shall be issued for a use that
would violate any local, state, or federal ordinances, laws, or regulations.
   C.   License Fee: An annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
charged for each nonresidential mobile trailer license; provided, that no
governmental or nonprofit agency shall be charged such a fee.
   D.   Contents Of License: The license shall specify the permitted use of the
nonresidential mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the
termination date of the license.
   E.   Construction Contractors: Operation of nonresidential trailers by
contractors for construction projects for which building permits have been
issued or which are otherwise approved by governmental units is permitted
without issuance of a license during the term of construction.
   F.   Permanent Location Prohibited: This section shall not be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
trailer within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
10-7-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
by fine and costs as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-4-2002)
CHAPTER 8
HISTORIC RESOURCES PLANNING AND PRESERVATION
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purposes
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Preservation Review Commission
10-8-4: Criteria For Designation
10-8-5: Procedures For Designation
10-8-6: Criteria For Evaluation
10-8-7: Certificate Of Appropriateness
10-8-8: Voluntary Restrictive Covenants
10-8-9: Maintenance And Repair; Dangerous Conditions
10-8-10: General Review Policies
10-8-11: Historic Review Criteria
10-8-12: Violations; Penalties
10-8-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   This chapter is designed to allow for designation of and to
subsequently protect properties which have been determined architecturally,
archaeologically, culturally or historically significant to the city, and to
allow interested parties the opportunity to arrange for the preservation of
such properties.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are to:
      1.   Promote the designation of historic properties and landmarks and the
creation of historic districts for the educational, cultural, economic and
general welfare of the public;
      2.   Safeguard the city's cultural and architectural heritage;
      3.   Preserve and enhance the environmental quality of neighborhoods;
      4.   Strengthen the city's economic base by stimulation of structural and
district conservation, reuse and revitalization;
      5.   Stabilize and preserve property values; and
      6.   Promote harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the community, through the integration of the preservation and comprehensive
planning processes within the city. (1997 Code § 12-601)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the definitions set out in this section shall govern
the interpretation of the terms to which they are attached:
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: The approval issued by the city preservation
review commission for:
   A.   Alterations of historic properties designated under this chapter or the
city zoning ordinance;
   B.   Demolition of such properties;
   C.   New construction in a district designated under ordinances as historic;
or
   D.   Projects that may impact upon a designated historic property or
district.
   CERTIFICATION AGREEMENT: The executed document between a certified local
government (CLG) and the state historic preservation officer (SHPO) for
participation in the CLG program.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG): A local government that has been certified
to carry out the purposes of the national historic preservation act, as
amended, in accordance with the procedures and guidelines set forth in
"Certified Local Governments (CLG) Program For Oklahoma", as approved by the
secretary of the interior.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT FUND: That portion of the state historic
preservation officer's annual allocation from the historic preservation fund
set aside for certified local governments.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AGREEMENT: The contract between the
certified local government (CLG) and the state historic preservation officer
for transfer of a share of the certified local government fund.
   CHIEF ELECTED LOCAL OFFICIAL: The mayor of the city.
   DECERTIFICATION: The secretary of the interior's revocation of certified
local government (CLG) status, in accordance with the requirements of the
certified local governments program for Oklahoma.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT: A geographically definable area with a concentration or
linkage of significant sites, buildings, structures or monuments that are
unified historically, architecturally, archaeologically or culturally.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND: The monies accrued under the outer continental
shelf lands act, as amended, to support the program of matching grants in aid
to the states for historic preservation programs and projects, as authorized by
section 101(d)(1) of the national historic preservation act, as amended.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY: An individual structure, building, site or monument which
contributes to the historical, architectural, archeological or cultural
heritage of the city.
   LOCAL LEGISLATION: The city's code, statute, ordinance, etc., which creates
the preservation review commission and sets forth its functions,
responsibilities, membership and other provisions.
   NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES: The national list of districts, sites,
buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering and culture, maintained by the secretary
of the interior under authority of section 101(a)(1)(A) of the national
historic preservation act, as amended.
   NATIONAL REGISTER PROGRAM MANUAL: The manual that sets forth national park
service administrative procedures and guidelines for activities concerning the
federally related historic preservation programs of the national trust for
historic preservation, the states and local governments. The manual includes
guidelines and procedures for the administration of the historic preservation
grants in aid program and supersedes the HPF grants management manual.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work not requiring a building permit or
certificate of appropriateness, where the purpose is to stabilize and not
noticeably alter the property's exterior appearance. Any work not satisfying
the requirements in this definition shall not be considered ordinary
maintenance and repair (i.e., painting previously unpainted brick).
   PRESERVATION: Any or all of the following:
   A.   Adaptive use: Restrained alteration to accommodate uses for which the
property was not originally constructed, but in such a way as to maintain the
general significant characteristics;
   B.   Conservation: Sustained use and appearance essentially in the
property's existing state;
   C.   Protection: Security of a property as it exists through the
establishment of the mechanisms of this chapter;
   D.   Reconstruction: Process of recreation or reproduction by new
construction, all or part of the form and detail of a vanished resource, as it
appeared at a specific period in time;
   E.   Rehabilitation: Process of returning a property to a state of
efficiency or soundness by repair or alteration, designed to encourage its
continued use but without noticeably changing its exterior;
   F.   Restoration: Process of accurately recovering all or part of the form
and detail of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period
of time, by means of removal or altering of work and replacement of earlier
work; and
   G.   Stabilization: Process of applying measures designated to halt
deterioration and to establish the structural soundness of an unsafe or
deteriorated property, while maintaining the essential form as it presently
exists, without noticeably changing the exterior appearance.
   PRESERVATION REVIEW COMMISSION: The New Cordell, Oklahoma, preservation
review commission appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council,
with the powers and duties established in this chapter, particularly subsection
10-8-3E of this chapter.
   SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS: Any or all of the following:
   A.   Cultural:
      1.   Has noteworthy character, interest or value as part of the
development of the locality, state or nation;
      2.   Is associated with a noteworthy personality or past development; or
      3.   Is the site of a noteworthy social, economic or political event.
   B.   Architectural:
      1.   Exemplifies a distinctive artistic style or engineering specimen;
      2.   Represents the work of a particular designer, architect or
contractor whose work has influenced the community or nation;
      3.   Contains elements of design, detail, style or craftsmanship unique
to the past;
      4.   Is a distinctive part of or related to a park or other distinctive
area that should be preserved; or
      5.   Represents a visual and established feature of a neighborhood,
community or skyline due to its location or physical features.
   C.   Archaeological:
      1.   Has yielded information or is likely to yield information (based on
physical evidence) important to history or prehistory; or
      2.   Is part of, or related to, a distinctive geographical area which
should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on a cultural,
historical or architectural motif.
   D.   Historical: Represents events of the past, important to the development
of the area, community, state or nation.
   STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER (SHPO): The official within the state
who has been delegated and appointed by the governor to administer the historic
preservation program in the state.
   STATE REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES: The state of Oklahoma list of districts,
sites, buildings, structures and objects significant in state history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering and culture, maintained by the state
historic preservation officer, under the authority of 53 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 351 to 355. (1997 Code § 12-602)
10-8-3: PRESERVATION REVIEW COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created; Composition; Qualifications: There is hereby
created the city preservation review commission. The commission shall consist
of six (6) members, appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city
council. All of the six (6) members shall have a demonstrated interest in
historic preservation. At least two (2) of the six (6) members shall be
professionals with preservation related experience (in such fields as
architecture, history, archaeology, planning design, landscape architecture or
law). The professional members may reside outside the city and may be selected
from among university faculties or professional preservation or planning
organizations. The city planning commission and the preservation review
commission shall coordinate their respective efforts. In the event of a
conflict, the decision of the preservation review commission shall govern any
historic property or historic district.
   B.   Term Of Office; Vacancies: The six (6) members of the commission shall
serve staggered three (3) year terms. Vacancies shall be filled by the mayor
within sixty (60) days.
   C.   Organization:
      1.   Rules Of Procedure: The preservation review commission shall adopt
rules of procedure.
      2.   Meetings: The preservation review commission shall meet at least
four (4) times per year, in public and open meetings, with written minutes
kept.
   D.   Quorum: The commission may conduct a meeting with four (4) of its six
(6) members present as a quorum. (1997 Code § 12-603)
   E.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To develop appropriate criteria and standards for identifying and
evaluating neighborhoods, places, structures and improvements which might be
classified as landmarks, historic sites or historic districts;
      2.   To designate landmarks, historic sites or historic districts within
the city limits. Once designated by the commission, such landmarks, historic
sites and historic districts shall be subject to all the provisions of this
chapter as well as any other specifically appropriate zoning ordinance
provisions;
      3.   To compile a list of structures which would be eligible for
designated landmark or historic structure status. Such structures may be within
or outside of a historic district. The commission may negotiate with the owners
of such structures for an agreement binding the owner and property. Such
agreement may be for a specified period of time and shall be binding on
subsequent owners until the end of the time specified;
      4.   To acquire a fee or lesser interest, including "preservation
easements", in historic properties by donation, bequest or, with the approval
of the city council, by purchase;
      5.   To cooperate with federal, state, local and other agencies in
pursuing the objectives of historic preservation;
      6.   To develop and recommend ordinances, legislation and programs, and
otherwise provide information on historic preservation to the city council;
      7.   To design appropriate markers for designated landmarks, historic
sites and historic districts;
      8.   To take all steps necessary, including the taking, preparation and
collection of photographs, measured drawings, descriptions, recorded
interviews, written dates and documentation to permanently record the origin,
development, use and historical significance of each landmark, site or
district;
      9.   To promote public education, interest and support for the
preservation and enhancement of such landmarks, historic sites and historic
districts;
      10.   To review, subject to this chapter, applications for new or
existing building or demolition permits, and to work on a voluntary basis with
the owners of landmarks, historic sites or structures within a historic
district, advising them on the benefits, problems and techniques of
preservation and encouraging their participation in preservation activities,
and to issue or deny "certificates of appropriateness" for the work;
         a.   All requests for building permits for structures within a
historic district and for those designated as landmarks or historic sites shall
be referred to the preservation review commission, which shall have a specified
period of time to review each request. The commission may use such time to
discuss the proposed changes with the owner of the structure in question and
may permit the building inspector to issue the building permit before such
period has expired. Following the review, the commission shall issue or deny
issuance of a "certificate of appropriateness" for the reviewed work; and
         b.   This shall not prohibit the granting of a building permit by the
building inspector after such period has expired;
      11.   To make recommendations regarding the proposed demolition of
designated landmarks or historic structures, including public demolition
procedures initiated through statutory "nuisance abatement" processes, as well
as other publicly or privately initiated demolition processes. No permit to
demolish all or part of such landmarks or structures shall be granted by the
building inspector, except as follows:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of
the city in charge of a landmark or historic site improvement in a historic
district, shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish, partially or in
total, such property without the written approval of the preservation review
commission;
         b.   Upon the filing of an application with the preservation review
commission, the commission shall determine whether the proposed change would
destroy or adversely affect the historical features of the landmark, historic
site or historic district property;
         c.   If the preservation review commission determines that the
landmark, historic site or property within a historic district would be
adversely affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent to the
granting of permission or of the permit. The commission shall make its decision
within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application, and shall state in
writing the reasons for withholding consent, mailing same to the applicant;
         d.   If the preservation review commission refuses to grant permission
or approve issuance of a demolition permit, it shall cooperate with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is agreed
upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the building
inspector may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or the
municipal agent may proceed without the approval of the commission;
      12.   To rescind designation of landmarks, historic sites or historical
districts;
      13.   To review requests for exceptions for uses within any historic
district;
      14.   To accept or raise funds from public and private sources; and
      15.   To make an annual report to the city council regarding its
activities. (1997 Code § 12-604; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
10-8-4: CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION:
A landmark, historic site or historic district designation may be placed on any
natural or improved site or on any area of particular historic, architectural
or cultural significance which:
   A.   Exemplifies or reflects the broad cultural, political, economic or
social history of the nation, state or community;
   B.   Is identified with historic persons or with important events in
national, state or local history;
   C.   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type
inherently valuable for the study of a period, style or method of construction
or of indigenous materials or craftsmanship; or
   D.   Is representative of the notable work of a master builder, designer or
architect whose work influenced his age or development in the nation, state,
region or local area. (1997 Code § 12-605)
10-8-5: PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATION:
   A.   The preservation review commission shall, by registered or certified
mail, contact all owners of real property (excluding mineral rights) within the
area of the proposed historic district or within three hundred feet (300') of
any affected historic property or site, in order to inform them of the subject
area, time, date and place of the public hearings at which the historic
designation will be discussed. The notice shall be mailed not less than twenty
(20) days prior to the hearing of the preservation review commission, and shall
also contain the time, date and place of the subsequent city council meeting at
which final action will be taken.
   B.   A legal notice, indicating the nature of the hearing, the area involved
and the time, date and place of the hearing, shall be published one time in a
newspaper of general circulation, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
preservation review commission's public hearing. The notice shall also contain
the time, date and place of the subsequent city council meeting at which final
action will take place.
   C.   Upon mailing of notification to the property owners within a proposed
historic district or involving a historic structure or landmark, no building
permits will be issued nor will any use changes be granted until after the city
council approves or rejects the designation proposal for the affected area or
site.
   D.   A quorum of the preservation review commission shall conduct the
hearing. All interested parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
express their opinions regarding the proposed designations. The commission may
establish reasonable limits on the length of individual presentations. A record
of the hearing shall be made. The preservation review commission's records may
include the name and address of each speaker, the organization or person he
represents, if any, whether or not he is an owner or holder of some interest in
the affected property or represents such owner or holder, and a summary of the
relevant portions of each statement.
   E.   Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing, the preservation review
commission shall act upon the proposed designation. The commission may approve,
reject or modify any proposal without instituting a new designation process. If
the commission fails to act within fifteen (15) days, the designation proposal
shall be forwarded to the city council for final action.
   F.   Upon receipt of the proposal by the city council, they may designate
the recommended area as a historic district, historic structure or landmark;
reject or modify the proposal.
   G.   Approval by the city council shall be manifested by approval of an
ordinance officially designating the site, landmark or district as historic. If
a district is to be designated, the ordinance shall be an amendment (overlay
zone) to the zoning ordinance in accordance therewith. (1997 Code § 12-606)
10-8-6: CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION:
The following criteria shall be used in the evaluation of proposed landmarks,
historic sites or historic districts:
   A.   Character, interest or value as a part of the development, heritage, or
cultural characteristics of the city, state, or nation or other societies;
   B.   Location of the site of a notable historical event;
   C.   Identification with a person or persons who contributed notably to the
culture and development of the city, state, nation or society;
   D.   Relationship to properties which are significant and preserved, or
which are eligible for preservation;
   E.   Embodiment of distinctive elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship related to a uniqueness to the area, or the related
distinctiveness of a craftsman, master builder or architect, or a style or
innovation;
   F.   Archaeological value, in the sense that the site has, has produced, or
can be expected to yield, based on physical evidence, information affecting
knowledge of history or prehistory;
   G.   Value as an aspect of community sentiment or public pride; or
   H.   An established familiar visual feature of the neighborhood, community
or skyline owing to its unique location or singular physical characteristics.
(1997 Code § 12-607)
10-8-7: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of issuing the certificate of appropriateness is
to make all concerned parties aware that all required submittals and approvals
have been completed and that the proper permit may be issued for the start of
work.
   B.   Certificate Required: The certificate of appropriateness is required,
before a permit is issued, for any of the following to occur in a historic
district or on a designated historic landmark or site:
      1.   Demolition of property;
      2.   Moving of property;
      3.   Material changes such as exterior reconstruction, alteration, or
color changes other than those approved in the original application; or
      4.   Building of new structures or property.
   C.   Procedures: The following procedures shall be used for applications:
      1.   There will be a filing fee as set by the council;
      2.   The applicant shall submit for review any sketches, plans, drawings,
photos or other information which would clearly show the preservation review
commission what changes will be made;
      3.   The application shall be filed with the city clerk;
      4.   The certification of appropriateness shall be reviewed by the
preservation review commission in the same manner as a rezoning application and
request; and
      5.   If work authorized by a certificate of appropriateness is not begun
within sixty (60) days, the certificate of appropriateness shall expire and
reapplication must be made, unless a thirty (30) day extension is granted by
the preservation review committee. No more than two (2) extensions may be
permitted on one project.
   D.   Appeals: Appeals of the decisions of the commission may be made to the
city council. Such appeals must be in writing and must be filed with the city
clerk within fifteen (15) days of notification of the decision of the
commission. The city council shall hold a hearing on each appeal as herein
submitted. The city council shall either approve the decision as submitted by
the commission, or approve the decision subject to modification, or deny the
decision, or return the decision to the commission for further study. (1997
Code § 12-608)
10-8-8: VOLUNTARY RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
The owner of any landmark or historic site may, at any time following such
designation of his property, enter into a restrictive covenant on the subject
property after negotiation with the preservation review commission. The
commission may assist the owner in preparing such covenant in the interest of
preserving the landmark or landmark site, and the owner shall record such
covenant in the office of the county register of deeds and shall notify the
city clerk of such covenant and the conditions thereof. If the covenant
involves any assumption of responsibility by the city, the city council shall
first review and approve the document. (1997 Code § 12-609)
10-8-9: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Maintenance And Repairs Required: Every person in charge of an
improvement on a historic site or in a historic district shall keep in good
repair all of the exterior portions of such improvement and all interior
portions which, if not so maintained, may cause, or tend to cause, the exterior
portions of such improvement to fall into a state of disrepair. This subsection
shall be in addition to all other provisions of law or local ordinance or code
requiring buildings or structures to be well maintained.
   B.   Variances From Building Code: Insofar as they are applicable to a
landmark, historic site or improvement in a historic district, any provision of
the building code may be varied or waived, on application, by the building
inspector, provided such variance or waiver does not endanger public health or
safety. (1997 Code § 12-610)
   C.   Dangerous Conditions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit
the construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any improvement
on a historic site or in a historic district pursuant to written order of any
federal or state agency or pursuant to any court judgment to remedy conditions
determined to be dangerous to life or health. In such case, no approval from
the preservation review commission shall be required. (1997 Code § 12-611)
10-8-10: GENERAL REVIEW POLICIES:
The preservation review commission shall be charged with the responsibility for
reviewing requests for building and demolition permits for designated historic
structures or within any area designated as a historic district and issuing or
denying certificates of appropriateness for applicable types of such requests.
It is the purpose of this section to specify for commission members policies
and criteria that they shall follow in reaching decisions or matters relative
to such changes.
   A.   Review criteria, procedural policies and consequences of decisions will
extend beyond the tenure of any commission members. It is essential that
policies be based on consistency and basic preservation guidelines. Highest
priority should go to the preservation and restoration of significant
structures (historically and architecturally) and sites that express the unique
characteristics of the particular periods in which they were built.
   B.   Noncontributing structures should be controlled by this chapter only to
the degree necessary to increase or retain compatibility with the general
atmosphere of any historic district and to keep the degree of nonconformance or
incompatibility from worsening.
   C.   The preservation review commission shall utilize, in addition to those
criteria in section
10-8-11 of this chapter, the secretary of the interior's standards for
rehabilitation. Said standards are as follows:
      1.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use
for a property which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or
site and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose;
      2.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure, or site and its environment should not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic materials or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible;
      3.   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as products
of their own time. Alterations that have a historical basis and which seek to
create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged;
      4.   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected;
      5.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated with
sensitivity;
      6.   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the materials being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures;
      7.   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building materials shall not be undertaken;
      8.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archaeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project;
      9.   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment; and
      10.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to structures shall
be done in such a manner that if such additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired. (1997 Code § 12-612)
10-8-11: HISTORIC REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   The purpose of historic/architectural design review is to protect
property values and to promote the general welfare by promoting new
construction and rehabilitation or alteration of buildings which is in proper
proportion and in general and reasonable harmony with the existing buildings in
the surrounding area. A supplemental purpose is to encourage architecture which
is compatible with the city's historic architecture.
   B.   In such instances where historic/architectural design review is
required, the procedure for such review will commence following the application
for a building permit. Upon receipt of the application, under conditions as set
forth in this chapter or for a particular zoning district, the applicant will
submit to the building inspector plans indicating accurate elevations of each
facade, and sufficient detailing to indicate materials, colors, textures, light
reflecting characteristics, and special features intended for the building.
This may be supplemented by sketches as deemed necessary by the applicant to
present the intended design. Submission of actual samples of building materials
is also encouraged.
   C.   The preservation review commission shall utilize the following specific
criteria (in addition to the secretary of the interior's standards for
rehabilitation) in reaching decisions on proposals presented for review. These
criteria permit the use of modern fabrics, but do not encourage imitation or
fake facades. They encourage the designer of new buildings or alterations to
existing structures to consider the relationship of the proposal to that of the
total character of the streetscape or of any district. If the proposal involves
an established historic zoning district, provisions and procedures of the
appropriate zoning district must also be met and followed.
      1.   Height: As a general rule, new buildings or modifications to
existing ones should be to a height within ten percent (10%) of the average
height of existing adjacent buildings;
      2.   Proportion Of Building's Front Facades: Consideration shall be given
to the relationship between the width to height of the front elevation of the
building;
      3.   Proportion Of Openings Within Facility: Consideration shall be given
to the relationship of width to height of windows and doors;
      4.   Rhythm Of Solids To Voids In Front Facades: Consideration shall be
given to an ordered, recurrent alternation of strong/weak architectural
elements to ensure appropriate rhythm of mass of openings;
      5.   Rhythm Of Spacing Of Buildings On Streets: Consideration shall be
given to a rhythm of recurrent building masses to spaces between buildings or
structures;
      6.   Rhythm Of Entrance Or Porch Projections: Consideration shall be
given to entrances to sidewalks so as to provide rhythm of entrances, porches
or other projections at an intimate scale;
      7.   Relationship Of Materials: Consideration shall be given to the
predominant material utilized, such as brick, stone, stucco, or wood siding, on
other adjacent or surrounding structures;
      8.   Relationship Of Textures: Consideration shall be given to the
predominant textures. These may be smooth (such as smooth stucco) or rough
(such as brick with tooled joints, or horizontal wood siding or other
textures);
      9.   Relationship Of Color: Consideration shall be given to a predominant
color or scheme that may be of a natural material or a patina colored by time;
      10.   Relationship Of Architectural Details: Consideration shall be given
to architectural details and their relationship to the structure in question
and adjacent ones including, but not limited to, cornices, lintels, arches,
quoins, balustrades, ironwork, chimneys, etc.;
      11.   Relationship Of Roof Shapes: Consideration shall be given so that
buildings shall have compatible roof shapes;
      12.   Walls Of Continuity: Consideration shall be given to physical
ingredients such as brick walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape
masses, building facades, or combinations of these so that continuous cohesive
walls of enclosure are provided along the street;
      13.   Relationship Of Landscaping: Consideration shall be given to the
predominance of a quality and quantity of landscaping, although emphasis herein
shall be with the amounts and continuity of landscaping;
      14.   Ground Cover: Consideration shall be given so that there will be a
predominance in the use of brick pavers, cobblestones, granite blocks or other
materials;
      15.   Scale: Consideration shall be given to scale, so that the size of
units of construction and architectural detail relate to the size of man. In
rendering this consideration, consideration shall also be given to building
mass and how it relates to open space. The predominant element of scale may be
brick or stone units, windows or door openings, porches and balconies, etc.;
and
      16.   Directional Expression Of Front Elevation: Consideration shall be
given to structural shape, placing of openings and architectural detail that
may provide a predominantly vertical, horizontal or nondirectional character to
the buildings' front facades. (1997 Code § 12-613)
10-8-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation exists whenever there is a performance of an
act which is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter, or a failure to
perform an act which is required by this chapter. Each day of violation shall
be considered a separate offense.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, externally
reconstructed, externally altered, added to or demolished in violation of this
chapter, the city or any person may institute an appropriate action or
proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, exterior alteration, addition or
demolition, and the violating party shall pay all court costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney fees, if the court should find in favor of the
city or persons suing on behalf of the city to enforce this chapter. (1997 Code
§ 12-614)
CHAPTER 9
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
10-9-1: Statutory Authorization
10-9-2: Findings Of Fact
10-9-3: Purpose
10-9-4: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
10-9-5: Definitions
10-9-6: Application; Interpretation; Compliance
10-9-7: Floodplain Administrator
10-9-8: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-9-9: Development Permit
10-9-10: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-9-11: Variances
10-9-12: Fee Schedule
10-9-13: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-9-14: Violations; Penalties
10-9-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has, in 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1601 through 1620.1, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses. (Ord.
2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
10-9-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-3: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-4: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the city of
New Cordell subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year.
   BFE: Base flood elevation.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CFR: Code of federal regulations.
   CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of New Cordell floodplain
administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
   ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building
in zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones AE, A, and X,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: The federal emergency management agency.
   FIRM: Flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An official map of the city of New Cordell on
which FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk
premium zones applicable to the city of New Cordell.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA for the city of
New Cordell which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within city of New Cordell subject to a "special flood hazard" and
the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically
includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with
sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by
the city council of the city of New Cordell to administer and implement laws,
ordinances and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of Flood Or Flooding.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in section
10-9-8 of this chapter. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state of Oklahoma inventory of historic
places by the state historic preservation office of the Oklahoma historical
society.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of title 44 CFR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the national flood insurance program,
the North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city of New Cordell's flood insurance rate map
are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date hereof and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date hereof.
   OWRB: The Oklahoma water resources board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (public law 97-348)
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the city of New Cordell city council to a
person from the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full
requirements, see section 60.6 of title 44 CFR.)
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
10-9-6: APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements; (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the city council; and (Ord. 2012-02,
4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   D.   Compliance Required: No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Director Of Emergency Management Serve As: The city council designates
the director of the city emergency management department as the floodplain
administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of the national flood insurance program regulations
in title 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012;
amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
      1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1620.1, as amended. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012;
amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
      4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   Require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the base
flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of section
10-9-10 of this chapter.
      9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zone AE as
delineated on the Washita County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
city.
      10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement.
      11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the city council.
      12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-8: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For Washita County,
Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas", dated April 3, 2012, with the accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
10-9-9: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a development permit shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured
homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood
hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development.
   C.   Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Approval or denial of a development
permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   D.   Developments In Certain Flood Hazard Areas: The floodplain
administrator or city council, as applicable, may approve certain development
in zones A or AE delineated on the Washita County FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'); provided,
that the applicant for the development permit in that case first complies with
44 CFR section 65.12. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-10: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated at least one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor
shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the standard
of this subsection is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standard of this subsection is satisfied.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
anywhere within the city in flood zones A and/or AE on the Washita County FIRM
shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage and
have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must
be elevated and anchored to a permanent foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. The home
shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state law, and
compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain
administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A and AE on the Washita County FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of section
10-9-9 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in subsection B4 of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
      6.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within zones A and AE on the Washita County FIRM shall comply with the
following:
         a.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         b.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
         c.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
         d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE;
         e.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         f.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
         g.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         h.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         i.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         j.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures.
   C.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in zones A and AE which is fifty one (51) or more lots or greater than five (5)
acres shall generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
      2.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      3.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   D.   Floodways: The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
      1.   Encroachments including, but not limited to, fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the city during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      3.   The city may permit encroachments within the adopted floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations; provided, that the
applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR section 65.12.
(Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The city council may grant variances for uses which do not satisfy
the requirements of the Oklahoma floodplain management act or this chapter, if
the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that: a) compliance with
this chapter will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property
without sufficient benefit or advantage to the people; and b) satisfies the
pertinent provisions of this section. However, no variance shall be granted
where the effect of the variance will be to permit the continuance of a
condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
      2.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or by other laws of the state.
      3.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
      4.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the city
council, accompanied by a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
10-9-9C of this chapter and the provisions of this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-
2012)
      6.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the mayor which states that:
a) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than the base flood
elevation; and b) such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
      7.   At such time as the city council deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the city council shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.
      8.   The city council shall conduct the hearing and make determinations
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section. The city council
shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities involved and the
advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the public at large when
determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      9.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      10.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section and the
intent of this chapter, the city council may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in section
10-9-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
      11.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and a copy of any
variance issued by the city council shall be sent by the floodplain
administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Certain Variances Permitted; Conditions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that:
         a.   The criteria of subsections A5, A9, B2 and B3 of this section are
met; and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-12: FEE SCHEDULE:
The city council establishes the following fee schedule not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one service:
   A.   Notice of intent fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) maximum.
   B.   Floodplain development permit application review: One hundred dollars
($100.00).
   C.   Floodplain development permit fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Inspection fee, per inspection: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord.
2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-13: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-16-2012)
10-9-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation or spend not more than thirty (30) days in jail and, in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city council or the city attorney from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
2012-02, 4-16-2012; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 10
OIL AND GAS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Regulations Adopted
10-10-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The city's oil and gas regulations, and any amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the regulations is on
file with the city clerk. Any violation of the regulations is punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 12-801)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title; Purpose; Scope; Interpretation   1
Rules And Definitions   2
Administration And Enforcement   3
Zoning Districts And Map   4
General Zoning Regulations   5
A-G General Agricultural District   6
Residential Districts   7
R-S Single-Family Residential District   7A
R-G General Residential District   7B
Commercial Districts   8
C-C Convenience Commercial District   8A
C-A/R Automotive Commercial And
Commercial Recreation District   8B
C-G General Commercial District   8C
Industrial Districts   9
I-L Light Industrial District   9A
I-H Heavy Industrial District   9B
Off Street Parking And Loading   10
Nonconformities   11
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-4: Minimum Requirements; Conflicting Provisions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the ZONING
REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF NEW CORDELL, OKLAHOMA. (1997 Code § 12-201)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the community; lessening congestion in the streets;
securing safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; providing adequate light
and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding undue concentration of
population; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; conserving the value
of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
community; and promoting the development of the community in accordance with a
comprehensive plan. (1997 Code § 12-202)
11-1-3: SCOPE:
This title shall be in full force and effect in the corporate limits of the
city. (1997 Code § 12-204)
11-1-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: As concerns interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be minimum requirements.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Where this title impose a greater restriction
than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other rules or
regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this title shall control. (1997
Code § 12-203)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Terms and words are to be used and interpreted as defined in section
11-2-2 of this chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word
"building" shall mean as well the word "structure"; the word "used" shall
include "arranged", "designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted",
"rented", "leased", or "intended to be used", and the word "shall" is mandatory
and not directory, except where the natural construction of the writing
indicates otherwise. (1997 Code § 12-203)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain terms used in this title are defined as
follows:
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure customarily incidental,
appropriate, and subordinate to the principal use of a building or to the
principal use of land and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
   AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory use for packing, treating, or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory use shall be
secondary to that of normal agricultural activities; and provided further, that
the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of swine or other
animals, stockyards or commercial feedlots for cattle.
   ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use not more than thirty
feet (30') wide affording a secondary means of access to abutting property and
not intended for general traffic circulation.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental replacement of parts and motor service
to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons'
capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: Any area used for retail sale
of gasoline or oil fuels or automobile accessories, and incidental services
including facilities for lubricating and washing and cleaning, but not
including, painting, major repair, or the sale of butane or propane fuels.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH OR AUTOMATIC CAR WASH: A building or structure or chain
conveyor, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
   BLOCK: In describing the boundaries of a district, the word "block" refers
to the legal description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the
property abutting on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting
streets or between an intersecting street and a railroad right of way or
between an intersecting street and a watercourse.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment of the city of New Cordell,
Oklahoma, also referred to as the "board".
   BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE: Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relatives and excluding facilities for
transient persons such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
or property.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Use Or Structure.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or
the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE: A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this title.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or buildings in which the principal use of
the building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall
be deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
   BULLETIN BOARD: Any sign announcing the activities of an educational,
religious, institutional or similar use.
   CEMETERY: The land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human
dead and dedicated for cemetery purpose.
   CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution which receives three (3) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years for care apart from their
natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, and received for regular
periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this definition shall not
include public and private schools organized, operated or approved under the
laws of this state, custody of children fixed by a court, children related by
blood or marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or churches
or other religious or public institutions caring for children within their
institutional building while their parents or legal guardians are attending
services or meetings or classes and other church activities.
   CITY COUNCIL: The official governing body of the city of New Cordell.
   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The New Cordell city planning commission, as
established by the statutes hereinbefore cited, also referred to as "planning
commission". The city planning commission shall also be the zoning commission
for the city.
   CLINIC: A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official city plan of the city; also refers to the
specific document, "comprehensive plan, New Cordell, Oklahoma".
   COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of
one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer coach, mobile
home, boarding or rooming house, hotel or motel.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3)
or more dwelling units and designed for or used by three (3) or more families;
also includes the word "apartments".
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit and
designed for or used exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units and
designed for or used exclusively by two (2) families; also includes the word
"duplex".
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms arranged, intended or designed as a
habitable unit, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more
than one family living independently of any other family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY: A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit, using a single
facility in a dwelling unit for culinary purposes, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity
house, or sorority house.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerlines of walls separating two (2) buildings.
   FRONTAGE: The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a
street.
   GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling for one family erected as part of a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING: Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of
four (4) or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used or intended for use by the occupants of the premises for storage
of passenger vehicles or trailers.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: The structure or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or refinishing of any
vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR: A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of automobiles.
   HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any structure on any parcel of land
measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost point
of the structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory building; provided, that no
trading and merchandising is carried on and in connection with which there is
no display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet in area, attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
customarily used in purely domestic or household purposes. A tearoom,
restaurant, rest home, clinic, barbershop, beauty parlor, doctor's or dentist's
office, childcare center, tourist home, cabinet shop, metal shop, lawn mower
repair, or auto repair garage shall not be deemed a home occupation.
   HOSPITAL: See definition of Medical Facilities.
   HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing six
(6) or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as
the more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged, with or
without meals, for compensation, but not including trailer parks or camps,
hospitals, asylums, orphanages, or buildings where persons are housed under
restraint.
   INDUSTRY: Storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance, or commodity for commercial use.
   INSTITUTIONAL USES: Those uses organized, established, used or intended to
be used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social, or philanthropic activity and normally operated on a
nonprofit basis.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled or handled, including
all wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage material
incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL: Includes any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs or
cats. "Kennel" includes any place where more than one litter of puppies or
kittens, born to different female dogs or cats, are kept on any lot or premises
or kept in any structure whether or not for a business purpose. "Kennel" also
includes any place where more than ten (10) dogs, cats, or combination of dogs
and cats are kept on any lot or premises or kept in any structure whether or
not for a business purpose.
   LOADING SPACE: A space on the same lot as the principal use, of at least ten
feet (10') in width and thirty feet (30') in length and having a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14'), designated for the temporary parking
of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this title, and having access on a public street.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting on a
street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection of such two (2)
sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where
the lot abuts more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot situated so that the front is either wider or
narrower than the rear of the lot.
   LOTS OF RECORD: A separate and distinct parcel designated on a legally
recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of
the county.
   MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES:
Convalescent Home: Also a nursing home; a rest home; or a home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill, or incurable persons, in which two (2) or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
Dental Or Doctor's Office: The same as "dental or medical clinic", defined
herein, including the various dental and medical specialties.
Dental Or Medical Clinic: A building used for the examination and treatment of
the physically ill; provided, that no facilities are provided for patients
remaining overnight except under emergency conditions and except as provided in
this code.
Hospital: An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured,
and including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments,
training facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facilities.
Nursing, Rest Or Convalescent Homes: See definition of Medical Facilities:
Convalescent Home.
Public Health Center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing health services, including related facilities.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways on its own wheels or
on flatbeds or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, and connection to utilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive
use of the occupants of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for placement of mobile homes to be occupied as
residences.
   MOTEL: An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to be
used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons.
   OPEN SPACE: An area included in any side, rear, or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
   PARCEL: See definition of Lot.
   PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area of not less than two hundred
(200) square feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of
driveways or access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: See definition of City Planning Commission.
   ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House And Rooming House.
   SIGN: Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a
firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a
commodity or a product which is visible from any public street or right of way
and designed to attract attention. "For Sale" and "For Rent" shall be deemed
signs within the meaning of this definition, but the term "sign" shall not
include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or other
political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious, or like campaign, drive, movement, or event used for a public
purpose in the public interest.
   SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA: The net geometric area of the surface of the
sign upon, against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated,
including the outward extremities of all letters, figures, characters and
delineations; provided, that only one face of a double faced sign shall be
included in the computation of display surface area.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
   SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign of temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent, or lease.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET: A public right of way more than thirty feet (30') in width which
provides the primary public means of access to abutting property and used
primarily for vehicular circulation.
   STREET, ARTERIAL: Any street designated on the thoroughfare plan as an
arterial, primary arterial, secondary arterial, major street, etc.
   STREET, MINOR: Any street not designated on the thoroughfare plan as an
arterial.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building,
such as walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground (not including sidewalks, driveways and similar improvement
areas).
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of the comprehensive plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles, and standards; also includes use
of the words "major street plan" and "trafficways plan".
   TRAILER: A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or
designed to carry or transport material or animals.
   YARD: A required space on a lot unobstructed except as expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line abutting on a street, into which a building may not
protrude.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting the
side lot line, into which no building may protrude. (1997 Code § 12-205; amd.
2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Enforcement Official
11-3-2: Board Of Adjustment
11-3-3: Zoning Clearance Permit
11-3-4: Amendments
11-3-5: Violation; Penalty
11-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to enforce this title. If the
zoning administrator shall find that any of the provisions of this title are
being violated, he shall notify in writing the persons responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and shall take such other action as is authorized by
law to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of said provisions. (1997
Code § 12-311)
11-3-2: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
There is hereby created within and for the city a board of adjustment with the
powers and duties and membership as provided by state law and this title. (1997
Code § 12-121; amd. Ord. 2019-08, 9-16-2019)
11-3-3: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT:
   A.   Definition: The "zoning clearance permit" is a permit issued by the
zoning administrator which states that a particular development meets all of
the requirements of this title. It is not a building permit and does not
authorize construction; it certifies that the land or structure is in
conformance with the terms of this title. (1997 Code § 12-312)
   B.   Permit Required: No building or other structure shall be erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered or repaired in such a manner as to prolong the
life of the building, nor shall the use of any land or building or other
structure be changed, without a zoning clearance permit being issued
authorizing such construction, alteration, repair, or use changes as being in
compliance with the provisions of this title. No building permit shall be
issued for any construction not conforming to a valid zoning clearance permit.
(1997 Code § 12-313; amd. 2014 Code)
   C.   Application For Permit; Grant Or Denial:
      1.   An application for a zoning clearance permit shall be made to the
zoning administrator by the owner or proposed occupant of the building or land
to be occupied or used, and the application shall state the location and legal
description of the property and set out in detail the character and nature of
the use to be conducted thereon. Within a reasonable time frame set by policy,
the zoning administrator shall grant or deny the zoning clearance permit in
accordance with the terms of this title. (1997 Code § 12-315; amd. 2014 Code)
      2.   All applications for zoning clearance permits shall be accompanied
by a plan, on suitable paper, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size and location of the building to be erected, and/or such
other information as may be necessary to satisfy the requirements of this
title. (1997 Code § 12-316; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Permit Fee: Zoning clearance permits shall not be issued until a fee as
set by the city council shall have been paid. (1997 Code § 12-317; amd. 2014
Code)
11-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Planning Commission Recommendation Required: The regulations,
restrictions, prohibitions and limitations imposed and the districts created
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed
by ordinance, but no change shall be made until the planning commission, after
notice and public hearing, files with the city council a report and
recommendation on the proposed change. (1997 Code § 12-321)
   B.   Application For Amendment; Fee: An owner or his duly authorized agent
or representative may make application for the amendment of the zoning
restrictions applicable to his property by filing with the planning commission
a written application in such form and content as the planning commission may,
by resolution, establish. An application for amendment shall be accompanied by
the payment of the fee set by council by motion or resolution. Costs of notice
and posting shall be billed to the applicant. (1997 Code § 12-322)
   C.   Notices And Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application, the
planning commission shall set a date for public hearing not less than twenty
(20) days nor more than sixty (60) days from the date of filing. Fifteen (15)
days' notice of the public hearing shall be given by the planning commission by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. Additional
notice shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs on the property. (1997
Code § 12-323; amd. 2014 Code)
   D.   Planning Commission Action:
      1.   After notice and public hearing, the planning commission shall vote
to:
         a.   Recommend to the city council that the application be approved as
submitted, or as amended, or be approved subject to modification; or
         b.   Recommend to the city council that the application be denied;
(1997 Code § 12-324)
      2.   An application recommended for approval or approval subject to
modification shall be transmitted to the city council with the report and
recommendation of the planning commission within fifteen (15) days from the
date of planning commission action; and (1997 Code § 12-324; amd. 2014 Code)
      3.   An application recommended for denial shall not be considered
further unless the applicant, within fifteen (15) days from the date of the
planning commission action, files a written request with the city council for a
hearing. A fee as set by the city council shall accompany the request for a
hearing before the city. Upon notice of such request, the planning commission
shall forthwith transmit the application and its report and recommendation to
the city council. (1997 Code § 12-324)
   E.   City Council Action: The city council shall hold a hearing on each
application regularly transmitted, or which has been transmitted pursuant to an
appeal as provided in subsection D3 of this section. The city council shall
approve the application as submitted and recommended by the planning
commission, or approve the application subject to modification, or deny the
application, or return the application to the city planning commission for
further study. (1997 Code § 12-325)
   F.   Protests: If a written protest against an amendment, change or repeal
of this title or any part thereof is presented, duly signed and acknowledged by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots immediately
abutting the territory included in such proposed change or separated therefrom
only by an alley or street, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the city council. (1997 Code § 12-326)
11-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this title shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this title shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1997 Code § 12-318)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-4-1: Districts Established
11-4-2: Zoning Map
11-4-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
11-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title and the promotion of public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the city:
A-G   General agricultural district
R-S   Single-family residential district
R-G   General residential district
C-C   Convenience commercial district
C-A/R Automotive commercial and commercial recreation district
C-G   General commercial district
I-L   Light industrial district
I-H   Heavy industrial district
 
(1997 Code § 12-211)
11-4-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts shall be
established by ordinance and shall be delineated and shown on a map entitled
"zoning map of the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma", and the zoning map is hereby
incorporated as a part of this title. (1997 Code § 12-212)
   B.   It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to maintain an up to
date official "zoning map of the city of New Cordell, Oklahoma" including all
amendments directly adopted by the city council. (1997 Code § 12-214)
11-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of a zoning district shall extend to a centerline of abutting
streets, regardless of the legal description used in establishing such
districts. In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the zoning map, the planning commission, upon written
application or upon its own motion, shall recommend the location of such
boundaries to the board of adjustment, and the board of adjustment shall make
the final determination. (1997 Code § 12-213)
11-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Territory annexed to the corporate limits of the city subsequent to the
effective date hereof shall immediately be subject to the provisions of this
title and shall be deemed to be designated as A-G general agricultural district
until altered or reclassified in the manner provided by law. (1997 Code § 12-
204)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Compliance With Provisions; Exceptions
11-5-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
11-5-3: Division Of Lots
11-5-4: Street Frontage Required
11-5-5: Yard Encroachments
11-5-6: Screening Walls And Fences
11-5-7: Sewer Service Required
11-5-8: Trailers And Commercial Vehicles
11-5-9: Junk Or Salvage Yards Unlawful Within The City Limits
11-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
No land, building, structure, or improvement shall be used and no building,
structure, or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered,
enlarged, or rebuilt which is designed, arranged, or intended to be used or
maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the use,
height, area, coverage, yard, space, and other requirements established in the
district in which such land, building, structure, or improvement is located,
and such use is authorized, except as provided by chapter 11 of this title.
(1997 Code § 12-221)
11-5-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district
permit the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to
the conditions set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district,
unless otherwise specified. (1997 Code § 12-222)
   B.   It is intended that this title be interpreted as not permitting a
dwelling unit to be located on the same lot with or within a structure used or
intended to be used primarily for nonresidential purposes; except, that one
accessory residential unit may be provided for a night watchman, motel manager,
or similar purpose where essential to the main use of the lot. (1997 Code § 12-
223)
11-5-3: DIVISION OF LOTS:
An improved lot shall not hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots unless
all lots resulting from such division comply with all the applicable yard,
space, area, parking and loading regulations of the zoning district in which
located. (1997 Code § 12-224)
11-5-4: STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (1997 Code § 12-226)
11-5-5: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
No building, structure, or improvement shall be permitted to encroach upon
required yard spaces set forth in the provisions of this title; provided,
however, that surfaced parking facilities, signs, fences, and gasoline pumping
service units may be permitted to occupy required yard space unless otherwise
prohibited in those districts permitting such improvements; and provided, that
no inoperative vehicle may be stored in the front yard of a lot in a
residential district. (1997 Code § 12-225)
11-5-6: SCREENING WALLS AND FENCES:
   A.   Specifications: When the provisions of this title require the
construction of a screening wall or fence as a condition for the initiation and
subsequent continuance of a use, the screening wall or fence shall:
      1.   Be constructed, designed, and arrange to provide visual separation
of uses, irrespective of vegetation;
      2.   Not be less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in
height; and
      3.   Be constructed with all braces and supports on the interior. (1997
Code § 12-237)
   B.   Maintenance Required: The screening wall or fence shall be maintained
by the owner of the zoning lot containing the use requiring the construction of
the screening. Failure to maintain after notice by the Zoning Administrator
shall constitute an offense hereunder. (1997 Code § 12-238)
11-5-7: SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED:
No structure or use in any district shall be erected or commenced which does
not have a connection to the public sewer system, unless and until the County
Public Health Officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal
system can be installed and operated effectively. As a basis for making his
decision, the Public Health Officer may require such percolation tests as he
deems to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the property
owner. (1997 Code § 12-239)
11-5-8: TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Storage And Parking In Residential Districts: Commercial vehicles and
trailers of all types, including travel, camping and hauling, and mobile homes
shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot
in any Residential District except in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   No more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons' rated capacity, per family living on the premises shall
be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling
explosives, gasoline, or liquified petroleum products be permitted;
      2.   No more than two (2) camping or travel trailers or hauling trailers
per family living on the premises shall be permitted, and the trailer shall not
exceed twenty four feet (24') in length or eight feet (8') in width; and
further provided, that the trailer shall not be parked or stored for more than
forty eight (48) hours unless it is located behind the front yard building
line. A camping or travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or
permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the incorporated
limits except as follows:
         a.   A camping or travel trailer may be occupied if it is in a mobile
home park authorized under the ordinances of the City except as provided in
subsection B of this section; or
         b.   A travel trailer may be occupied for a period of up to seven (7)
days but only with a permit from the City. However, any permitted travel
trailer shall not obstruct travel or the view of safe travel on any public road
way.
   B.   Display In Commercial And Industrial Districts: Commercial vehicles and
trailers of all types may be displayed in such Commercial Districts allowing
sales of the vehicles or in such Industrial Districts allowing their
manufacture; provided, however, the vehicles may not be used for dwelling
purposes, either temporarily or permanently, except in a mobile home park
authorized under the ordinances of the City or as otherwise allowed in this
section.
   C.   Grandfather Clause:
      1.   Grandfather Clause: Camping or travel trailers parked and occupied
as of the effective date of this section may remain occupied and in their
present location unless and until such time as they are moved or substantially
altered. If a camping or travel trailer is moved or substantially altered this
clause will have no further force or effect and the camping or travel trailer
shall be subject to this section. "Substantially altered" shall mean such
things as, but not limited to, removal of skirting that had been attached,
wheels and tires attached to the axles that had been removed, damage sustained
from wind and other forms of storm damage and/or the location on the property
changed in any way. (Ord. 2019-01, 2-19-2019, eff. 2-19-2019)
11-5-9: JUNK OR SALVAGE YARDS UNLAWFUL WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish,
maintain, or operate within the corporate limits of the City any automobile
salvage, junk or wrecking establishment. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018, eff. 4-16-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
A-G GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purposes
11-6-2: Permitted Uses
11-6-3: Lot And Height Requirements
11-6-4: Signs
11-6-1: PURPOSES:
The A-G general agricultural district is established for several purposes:
   A.   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly agricultural
purposes;
   B.   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed to
urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety, etc.;
and
   C.   To restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until
such time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to
flooding. (1997 Code § 12-261)
11-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the A-G general agricultural district, the following uses are permitted:
"Agriculture", as defined in section
 11-2-2 of this title.
Churches and temples.
Elementary schools, high schools, colleges; public or private.
Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt courses, or
miniature golf courses.
Municipal or community recreation centers.
Parks and forest preserves not operated for profit.
Police or fire stations.
Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not for
profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries, or
museums.
Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories, or
sanatoriums.
Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums.
Public utility and service uses including electric substations, gas regulator
stations, electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water transmission metering
and distribution equipment and structures, microwave relay towers, water
reservoirs or pumping stations and other similar facilities.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of
construction.
Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses. (1997
Code § 12-262)
11-6-3: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
All lots and improvements within the A-G district shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   All lots shall not be less than five (5) acres of land, and not more
than one principal building shall be placed on any one lot.
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than three hundred thirty
feet (330').
   C.   Not more than two percent (2%) of the lot area shall be covered with
improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the meaning of
this subsection.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   E.   All structures shall have not less than a fifty foot (50') front yard
setback.
   F.   All principal structures shall have not less than a thirty foot (30')
side yard setback. Accessory buildings may have side yards of not less than ten
feet (10').
   G.   All principal structures shall have not less than a fifty foot (50')
rear yard setback. Accessory buildings may have a rear yard of not less than
ten feet (10'). (1997 Code § 12-263; amd. 2014 Code)
11-6-4: SIGNS:
No signs, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar displays shall be
permitted in the A-G district except as follows:
   A.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional, or similar use requiring an announcement
of its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet
in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any,
shall be by constant light.
   B.   One identification sign may be erected on each street frontage of a
single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential use. The sign shall not
exceed twelve (12) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   C.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. The sign shall
not exceed eighty (80) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light. (1997 Code § 12-
264)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-S SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7A-1: Description, Purpose And Intent
11-7A-2: Permitted Uses
11-7A-3: Permitted Uses Subject To Additional Requirements
11-7A-4: Lot And Height Requirements
11-7A-5: Signs And Billboards
11-7A-1: DESCRIPTION, PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The R-S Single-Family Residential District is established as a district in
which the use of land is for single-family dwellings except as noted. It is the
purpose and intent of this district to promote the development of and the
continued use of the land for single-family dwellings and to prohibit
commercial and industrial use or any other use which would substantially
interfere with the development or continuation of single-family dwellings in
this district. The intent is to further discourage any use in this district
which would generate traffic or create congestion on neighborhood streets other
than the normal traffic which serves the residents in the area. This district
further encourages only those uses which, because of character or size, would
not create additional requirements and costs for public services in excess of
requirements and costs for single-family dwellings. (1997 Code § 12-265)
11-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the R-S Single-Family Residential District, the following uses are
permitted:
Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building, subject to the
requirements of subsection
11-7A-4G of this article.
Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
Public park or playground.
Public schools and private schools where the curriculum is similar in nature
and preparation of coursework to the public schools.
Single-family detached dwellings and duplexes, subject to the requirements of
section
11-7A-4 of this article. (Ord. 2015-07, 9-21-2015, eff. 9-21-2015)
11-7A-3: PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following uses may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment after a public
hearing, provided they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to
applicable area regulations:
Churches; a minimum lot size of one (1) acre and arterial street frontage as
shown on the thoroughfare plan.
Golf course, private or public, or country club; provided, that the chief
activity is for recreational purposes, and any commercial activity is accessory
or incidental thereto.
Home occupation; provided, that it is in keeping with the meaning of "home
occupation" in section
11-2-2 of this title.
Junior high or senior high schools; provided, that they have arterial street
frontage as shown on the thoroughfare plan.
Library, provided it has arterial street frontage as shown on the thoroughfare
plan.
Parking lots, provided they are within two hundred feet (200') of a commercial
or industrial district.
Plant nursery; provided, that no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith and no retailing of any material is carried on upon the
premises.
Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of the main
building and will be removed when the main structure is completed. (1997 Code §
12-267; amd. Ord. 2015-07, 9-21-2015, eff. 9-21-2015)
11-7A-4: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All lots shall have not less than seven thousand two hundred (7,200)
square feet of lot area.
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than sixty feet (60').
   C.   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the
meaning of this subsection.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height.
   E.   All structures shall have not less than a twenty five foot (25') front
yard setback.
   F.   1. For a single-family dwelling of one (1) story, the minimum width of
the side yard shall be five feet (5') for interior lot lines and ten feet (10')
for the side yard abutting the side street on a corner lot.
      2.   For buildings of more than one (1) story, the minimum width of the
side yard on interior lot lines shall be not less than ten feet (10').
      3.   For a principal building other than a single-family dwelling, the
minimum width of the side yard shall be not less than the height of the
building, but in no case less than fifteen feet (15').
   G.   A rear yard of twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot shall be
provided for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory uses may
be located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line, shall not have sidewalls greater than ten feet (10') in height and shall
occupy no more than thirty five percent (35%) of the rear yard or seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet, whichever is greater. (Ord. 2015-07, 9-21-2015, eff.
9-21-2015)
11-7A-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards, or other similar display shall
be permitted in the R-S District except as follows:
   A.   A temporary bulletin board or sign not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet in area pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises,
which board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises is leased, hired
or sold.
   B.   One (1) bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional or similar use requiring announcement of
its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall
be by constant light.
   C.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
   D.   One (1) nonilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in
area and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or occupants
or name or address of the premises. (1997 Code § 12-269)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. R-G GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7B-1: Purposes
11-7B-2: Permitted Uses
11-7B-3: Permitted Uses Subject To Additional Requirements
11-7B-4: Lot And Height Requirements
11-7B-5: Signs And Billboards
11-7B-6: Mobile Home Parks
11-7B-1: PURPOSES:
The R-G general residential district is intended to provide for both low and
high population density. It is established as a district in which the principal
uses of the land are for multi-family dwellings and similar high density
residential development. The intent is to encourage the development and
continued use of land for multi-family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and
industrial uses or any other use which would substantially interfere with the
development or continuation of multi-family dwellings in the district. It is
further intended to discourage any use which would generate traffic to create
congestion on the neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which
serves the multi-family dwellings or similar residential uses in this district
and discourage any use which, because of its character or size, would create
additional requirements and costs for public services which would be in excess
of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for multi-
family or other similar residential uses. (1997 Code § 12-270)
11-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the R-G general residential district, the following uses are permitted:
Any use permitted in section
11-7A-2 of this chapter for the R-S single-family residential district.
Duplex.
Multi-family dwelling.
Rooming or boarding house. (1997 Code § 12-271)
11-7B-3: PERMITTED USES SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following uses may be permitted by the board of adjustment after public
hearing, provided they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to
applicable area regulations:
Any uses permitted subject to additional requirements in section
11-7A-3 of this chapter for the R-S single-family residential district.
Childcare centers or day nurseries; provided they are located on a lot not less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area and have principal access on an
arterial street as shown on the thoroughfare plan.
Community services, cultural, and utility facilities, provided they are located
on a lot of not less than one acre and have frontage on an arterial street as
shown on the thoroughfare plan.
Convalescent home, rest home, nursing home, and hospitals, public or private,
provided they have frontage on an arterial street as shown on the thoroughfare
plan.
Mobile home park in compliance with section
11-7B-6 of this article.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses when
located on the same lot. (1997 Code § 12-272)
11-7B-4: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
All lots and improvements within the R-G district shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   All lots shall have an area of not less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet for a single-family dwelling, ten thousand (10,000) square feet for
a two-family dwelling, or ten thousand (10,000) square feet plus two thousand
(2,000) square feet for each dwelling unit over two (2) for multi-family
dwellings. For uses other than dwelling purposes, the lot area shall not be
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet except as otherwise specified.
(1997 Code § 12-273; amd. Ord. 98-1, 3-2-1998)
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than fifty feet (50') for
single-family dwellings, sixty feet (60') for two- family dwellings, and one
hundred feet (100') for multi-family dwellings and all other uses.
   C.   Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the lot area shall be covered with
improvements; except, that duplexes shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%)
coverage and single-family improvements thirty percent (30%). Paved areas are
not considered improvements within the meaning of this subsection.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   E.   A minimum front yard setback of twenty five feet (25') shall be
provided on all single-family and duplex dwellings. One foot (1') of setback
for each one foot (1') of height shall be provided for all uses other than
single-family and duplex, but not less than a fifteen foot (15') front yard
shall be provided.
   F.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than
fifteen feet (15'). One foot (1') of setback for each one foot (1') of height
for all uses other than single-family and duplex shall be provided.
   G.   A rear yard of twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot shall be
provided for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory uses may
be located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line. (1997 Code § 12-273; amd. 2014 Code)
11-7B-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the R-G district is the same as that set
forth in section
11-7A-5 of this chapter for the R-S district, except one nonilluminated
nameplate may be erected not exceeding twenty four (24) square feet in area,
identifying the name and use of the premises. (1997 Code § 12-274; amd. 2014
Code)
11-7B-6: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Upon compliance with the provisions of this section, a mobile home park will be
allowed within the R-G district.
   A.   The applicant, upon making application for a zoning clearance permit,
must submit a detailed site plan locating all mobile home stands, screening or
fencing, and plans and specifications for the proposed park in a form suitable
for making the determinations required herein.
   B.   The proposed site shall be a minimum of two and one-half (21/2) acres
in size and shall contain no more than fifteen (15) mobile home stands per
acre. The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of two hundred feet
(200') on a street designated as an arterial on the thoroughfare plan. All
ingress or egress by automobile shall be on such streets. The proposed site
shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') in depth.
   C.   The mobile home park shall accommodate primarily permanent occupants,
with no more than forty percent (40%) of the mobile home stands devoted to
solely transient purposes. These solely transient stands are to be located in
one area of the park, so they will in no way interfere with the permanent
residents.
   D.   Front yards of not less than twenty feet (20') and side and rear yards
of not less than ten feet (10') shall be provided on mobile home park sites.
   E.   The proposed mobile home park shall be screened or buffered on all
sides with a screening wall or fence in accordance with section
11-5-6 of this title.
   F.   The proposed site shall provide one off street parking space for each
mobile home stand, plus one additional off street parking space for each four
(4) mobile home stands.
   G.   The proposed site shall provide a connection for each mobile home stand
to all public utilities. (1997 Code § 12-275)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-C CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8A-1: Intent
11-8A-2: Permitted Uses
11-8A-3: Lot And Height Requirements
11-8A-4: Business Signs
11-8A-1: INTENT:
The C-C convenience commercial district is intended for a unified grouping in
one or more buildings of retail shops and stores and personal services that
provide for the regular needs and are for the convenience of the people
residing in the adjacent residential neighborhoods. It is intended that the
suburban convenience center be developed as a unit with adequate off street
parking space for customers and employees, and with appropriate landscaping and
screening. (1997 Code § 12-280)
11-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the C-C district, the following uses are permitted:
Any of the following uses:
Artist supplies and hobby shop.
Bakery shop.
Barbershop and beauty shop.
Bookstore.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Dairy products store.
Delicatessen.
Drugstore.
Financial institutions.
Florist shop.
Gift shop.
Grocery shop.
Hardware store.
Jewelry shop.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick up stations.
Liquor store.
Medical facility.
Office, professional or general.
Pharmacy.
Restaurants (not drive-in).
Self-service laundries.
Shoe repair shop.
Sporting goods store.
Tailor shop.
Theater.
Toy store.
Variety store.
Any of the uses permitted in section
11-7B-3 of this title subject to additional requirements as provided.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses;
provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products other than such as
are customarily incidental to retail establishments.
Any other commercial use deemed by the board of adjustment to be of a similar
nature to those listed above. (1997 Code § 12-281)
11-8A-3: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The parcel of land on which a convenience commercial center is located
shall not be less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than one hundred feet
(100').
   C.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area shall be covered with
improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the meaning of
this subsection.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   E.   It is intended that the grouping of buildings and parking areas be
designed to protect, insofar as possible, adjacent residential areas. In no
case shall the design of the shopping center provide less than the following
standards:
      1.   All buildings shall be set back from all street right of way lines
not less than fifty feet (50');
      2.   On the side of a lot adjoining a residential district shall be a
side yard setback of two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of height; and
      3.   All buildings shall be set back from the rear lot line not less than
ten feet (10'). (1997 Code § 12-282; amd. 2014 Code)
11-8A-4: BUSINESS SIGNS:
Business signs, poster boards, bulletin boards, or other similar displays in
the C-C district shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   One business sign not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in surface
area and identifying the business or activity conducted on the premises may be
erected on each street frontage of the parcel. In the case of a shopping center
containing a group of businesses or activities on one lot, one accessory
building sign may be erected on the lot identifying the shopping center. Such
accessory sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area. Ground signs
shall not exceed the height of the building in which the principal use is
located or twenty feet (20'), whichever is lower. No business sign shall be
located within fifty feet (50') of a residential district if visible from such
district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   B.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises may be erected on each street frontage of the development. The sign
shall not exceed sixteen feet (16') in surface area nor fifteen feet (15') in
height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   C.   All signs shall be erected upon private property and shall not encroach
upon any public street or walk except as provided by the applicable codes of
the city, and they shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet (9')
and shall not have a maximum projection greater than seventy two inches (72").
(1997 Code § 12-283)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. C-A/R AUTOMOTIVE COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8B-1: Intent
11-8B-2: Permitted Uses
11-8B-3: Lot And Height Requirements
11-8B-4: Business Signs
11-8B-1: INTENT:
The C-A/R automotive commercial and commercial recreation district is
established as a district in which the principal use of land is for
establishments offering accommodations, supplies of services to motorists, and
certain specialized uses such as retail outlets, extensive commercial amusement
and service establishments which serve the entire community but do not and
should not necessarily locate in the central business district or the
convenience commercial district. (1997 Code § 12-285)
11-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the C-A/R automotive commercial and commercial recreation district, the
following uses are permitted:
Any use permitted in the C-C convenience commercial district.
Other uses, including:
Ambulance service office or garage.
Amusement enterprises.
Automobile service station.
Billboards as permitted in section
11-8B-4 of this article.
Boat sales.
Bowling alleys.
Bus terminal.
Dance hall.
Drive-in theater or restaurant.
Electric transmission station.
Feed and fuel store.
Funeral parlor.
Garden stores.
Golf course, miniature, or practice range.
Heating and plumbing sales and service.
Hospital for small animals.
Ice plant.
Kennel.
Key shop.
Laundry.
Motels.
Music, radio, and television shop and repair.
New and used automobile sales and services, new and used machinery sales and
services, and public garages.
Nightclub.
Novelty.
Pawnshop.
Pet shop.
Printing plant.
Public uses.
Recreation center, private.
Roller skating rink.
Sign painting shop.
Tavern.
Travel trailer park and sales.
Wholesale distribution center.
Any other store or shop for retail trade or for providing personal,
professional or business service other than those provided in section 11-8C-
2 of this chapter.
Buildings, structures and accessory uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses; provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products other
than such as are customarily incidental to retail establishments. (1997 Code §
12-286)
11-8B-3: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The parcel of land on which any commercial use is located shall not be
less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than one hundred feet
(100').
   C.   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the
meaning of this subsection.
   D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   E.   It is intended that the commercial uses and parking areas within a C-A/
R district be designed to protect, insofar as possible, adjacent residential
areas. In no case shall the development have less than the following standards:
      1.   All buildings shall be set back from all street right of way lines
not less than fifty feet (50');
      2.   On the side of a lot adjoining a residential district, there shall
be a side yard setback of two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of height; and
      3.   All buildings shall be set back from the rear lot line not less than
twenty feet (20'). (1997 Code § 12-287; amd. 2014 Code)
11-8B-4: BUSINESS SIGNS:
Business signs, poster boards, or other similar display in the C-A/R district
shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Business signs not exceeding in the aggregate one square foot of
display surface area per one linear foot of street frontage may be erected on
each street frontage of the parcel. Ground signs and billboards shall not
exceed thirty feet (30') in height. No sign or billboard shall be located
within fifty feet (50') of a residential district if visible from such
district. Illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   B.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises may be erected on each street frontage of the development. The sign
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in surface area nor fifteen feet (15')
in height, and illumination, if any, shall be by constant light.
   C.   All signs shall be erected upon private property and shall not encroach
upon any public street or walk except as provided by the applicable codes of
the city, and they shall not overhang at a height of less than nine feet (9')
and shall not have a maximum projection greater than seventy two inches (72").
(1997 Code § 12-288)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE C. C-G GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8C-1: Intent
11-8C-2: Permitted Uses
11-8C-3: Lot And Height Requirements
11-8C-4: Signs And Billboards
11-8C-1: INTENT:
The C-G general commercial district is designed for the conduct of personal and
business services and the general retail trade of the community. It is designed
to accommodate a wide variety of commercial uses in the central business
district or areas of mixed business enterprises. It will not normally be
applied in the case of new commercial areas. (1997 Code § 12-290)
11-8C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the C-G general commercial district, the following uses are permitted:
Any use permitted in a C-C or C-A/R district.
Any other retail, personal service, business service, or professional use not
already mentioned, including:
Department store.
Frozen food locker.
Furniture repair and upholstery.
Research laboratories.
Wholesale, except for outdoor storage.
Any public buildings or uses.
Buildings, structures, and accessory uses customarily incidental to any of the
above uses; provided, that there shall be no manufacturing of products other
than such as are customarily incidental to retail establishments. (1997 Code §
12-291; amd. 2014 Code)
11-8C-3: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
There are no area or height regulations in the C-G district. (1997 Code § 12-
292; amd. 2014 Code)
11-8C-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs and billboards in the C-G district shall conform to the requirements
in section
11-8B-4 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 12-293)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-L LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9A-1: Purpose
11-9A-2: Permitted Uses
11-9A-3: Lot And Height Requirements
11-9A-4: Signs And Billboards
11-9A-5: Standards
11-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the I-L light industrial district is to provide a location for
industries which do not, by their nature, create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land for industry in a location beneficial to industries and to
prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the traffic generated and other
potentially objectionable influences created in this district, a buffer or
setback area between this district and any other zoning district except I-H is
required. (1997 Code § 12-295)
11-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the I-L light industrial district, the following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal use.
Building materials sales.
Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
Compounding, processing and blending of chemical products, but not including
any materials which decompose by detonation.
General and administrative offices.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops, provided
they do not include any of the following equipment:
Automatic screw machines;
Drop forges; or
Riveting machines.
Mail order houses.
Manufacturing and assembling of electrical and electronic products and
equipments.
Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such processes) of products
from wood, cork, glass, leather, fur, plastic, felt, and other textiles, but
not including, as a principal operation, the processing of any raw materials.
Printing and binding plants.
Research laboratories.
Warehouse and storage facilities.
Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and lift stations.
Any other manufacturing process or establishment except those permitted in
section
11-9B-2 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 12-297)
11-9A-3: LOT AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There are no area requirements in an I-L district.
   B.   There are no lot frontage requirements in an I-L district.
   C.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area shall be covered with
improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the meaning of
this subsection.
   D.   There are no height requirements in an I-L district.
   E.   No structure shall be erected, commenced or maintained which has a
front yard of less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   When adjacent to a residential district, a side yard of fifty feet
(50') or two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of height, whichever is greater,
shall be provided.
   G.   When adjacent to a residential district, a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') or two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of height, whichever is greater,
shall be provided. (1997 Code § 12-298; amd. 2014 Code)
11-9A-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs and billboards in the I-L district shall conform to the requirements
in section
11-8B-4 of this title. (1997 Code § 12-299)
11-9A-5: STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the I-L light
industrial district after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as to
comply with the following standards:
   A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes; except, that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental to
or accessory to a permitted use.
   C.   No noise, either continuous or intermittent, from any operation
conducted on the premises, other than that emanating from vehicular traffic,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the I-L district.
   D.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, or odorous or particulate
matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot on
which the use is located.
   E.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot on
which the use is located.
   F.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon property located in any residential district.
   G.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive vapors
or gases is prohibited.
   H.   No outside storage of equipment or material, except equipment in daily
use, shall be permitted in such a location where it can be viewed from any
public street.
   I.   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of light shall be
screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines. (1997 Code § 12-296)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE B. I-H HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9B-1: Purpose And Intent; Buffer Strip Required
11-9B-2: Permitted Uses
11-9B-3: Lot Requirements
11-9B-4: Signs And Billboards
11-9B-5: Standards
11-9B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT; BUFFER STRIP REQUIRED:
The purpose of the I-H Heavy Industrial District is to provide a location for
industries which may, by their nature, create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land especially for such industry in locations with access to
arterial streets as designated on the thoroughfare plan, as well as locations
generally accessible to railroad transportation. Because of the nuisances or
other objectionable influences that may be created in this district, a buffer
or setback strip between this district and other zoning districts except I-L is
required. (1997 Code § 12-300)
11-9B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the I-H Heavy Industrial District, the following uses are permitted:
Any use permitted in the I-L District.
Blacksmiths, tinsmiths, and sheet metal shops.
Bottling works.
Canning or preserving factories.
Cold storage plants.
Ice cream production and distribution.
Laundry and dry cleaning plants.
Machine shops.
Machinery rental, sales and service.
Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing and cleaning,
servicing, or testing of any of the following materials, goods or merchandise:
Apparel.
Beverages (nonalcoholic), processing and bottling.
Building materials specialties.
Bulk fuel sales and storage.
Clothing.
Compounding and packaging of chemicals.
Cosmetics and toiletries.
Dairy products.
Drugs and pharmaceutical products.
Electrical and acoustical products and components.
Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast).
Furniture.
Glass products.
Ice, dry and natural.
Jewelry.
Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties.
Metal products and utensils.
Milk, bottling and distribution.
Monumental stonecutting.
Motor freight terminals.
Musical instruments.
Optical goods.
Paper products, including boxes and containers.
Pattern shops.
Printing plants.
Processing of meat and vegetable products, including the slaughter of animals.
Radios, phonographs, recorders, and television sets and parts.
Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and sleeping facilities
for transient railroad labor.
Sign painting.
Soldering and welding shops.
Spray painting and mixing.
Textiles.
Toys and children's vehicles.
Trailers and carts.
Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers. (1997 Code § 12-302; amd.
Ord. 2018-06, 9-4-2018, eff. 9-4-2018)
11-9B-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There are no requirements for minimum lot area or frontage in the I-
H District.
   B.   Front, rear and side yard requirements in the I-H District are the same
as those set forth in section
11-9A-3 of this chapter for the I-L District.
   C.   Buildings shall not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the site on
which the use is located. (1997 Code § 12-303)
11-9B-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs and billboards in the I-H District shall conform to the requirements
in section
11-8B-4 of this title. (1997 Code § 12-304)
11-9B-5: STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered, or enlarged in the I-H Heavy
Industrial District after the effective date hereof shall be so operated as to
comply with the following standards. No use already established on the
effective date hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or
further conflict with, the following applicable standards for the I-H District:
   A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes; except, that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental to
or accessory to a permitted use.
   C.   No storage, manufacture, or assembly of goods shall be conducted out of
a building unless the nearest point of the activity is more than one hundred
feet (100') from the boundary of any zoning district.
   D.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon property located in any Residential District.
   E.   All manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, repairing,
storing, cleaning, servicing, and testing of goods, water, and merchandise
shall be carried on in such a manner as not to be injurious or offensive by
reason of the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or other
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, odors, glare, heat, fire or
explosive hazards.
   F.   No activities involving storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted. (1997
Code § 12-301)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-10-1: Intent And Application
11-10-2: General Parking Requirements
11-10-3: Number Of Spaces Required
11-10-1: INTENT AND APPLICATION:
It is the intent of this chapter that adequate parking and loading facilities
be provided on off the street areas for each use of land within the city.
Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use. This
chapter shall apply to all uses in all districts. (1997 Code § 12-229)
11-10-2: GENERAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Open Space: Off street parking space may be a part of the
required open space associated with the permitted use, unless otherwise
prohibited; provided, however, the off street parking requirements shall not be
reduced or encroached upon in any manner. (1997 Code § 12-230)
   B.   Location Of Parking Lots: Off street parking lots shall be located
within two hundred feet (200'), exclusive of street and alley widths, of the
principal use and shall have direct access to a street or alley. (1997 Code §
12-231)
   C.   Joint And Off Site Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more uses
are located together in a common building, shopping center or other integrated
building complex, there may be compliance with the parking requirements by
providing a permanent common parking facility cooperatively established and
operated which contains the requisite number of spaces for each use. Owners
jointly provide for their individual parking needs through a joint facility or
facilities; provided, that the total number of spaces so provided shall not be
less than the sum of the individual requirements and that each business or
other use is within two hundred feet (200') of the parking facility. (1997 Code
§ 12-232)
   D.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Size Of Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one vehicle
shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than ten feet
by twenty feet (10' x 20'), plus adequate area for ingress and egress. (1997
Code § 12-233)
      2.   Paved Surface Required: All parking spaces shall be paved with a
sealed surface permanent pavement and maintained in a manner that no dust will
result from continued use. (1997 Code § 12-235)
   E.   Parking Lots Located Within Or Adjacent To Residential District:
Whenever off street parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are to be
located within or adjacent to a residential district, the following provisions
shall apply:
      1.   All sides of the lot within or abutting the residential district
shall be enclosed with a screening wall or fence as specified under section
11-5-6 of this title.
      2.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard when the parking
lot is located in a residential district.
      3.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      4.   Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be arranged so that all
light is deflected from adjoining residential uses.
      5.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the condition and terms of the use of the lots.
Only nonintermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted. (1997 Code §
12-236; amd. 2014 Code)
11-10-3: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in
accordance with the following schedule:
Type Of Use Spaces Required
Type Of Use                             Spaces Required
Boarding or rooming house or hotel      1 space for each sleeping room
 
Commercial establishments not otherwise 1 space for each 150 square feet of
classified                              floor space used for retail trade in
                                       the building and including all areas
                                        used by the public
                                        1 space for each 4 permanent seats,
                                        based on maximum seating capacity of
Community center, theater, auditorium,  each 50 square feet of floor area in
church sanctuary                        rooms without permanent seating but
                                        intended to be used for assembly
                                        purposes
                                        1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
Convalescent or nursing homes           space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees including nurses
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  1 space for each 50 square feet of
museum, place of amusement or           floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building
Dwelling, multi-family                  Not less than 11/2 times the number of
                                        units in the dwelling
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       1 space for each separate dwelling unit
                                        within the structure
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space
Hospitals                               for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
                                        1 space for each 3 employees including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles
                                        1 parking space for each 500 square
                                        feet of gross floor area or 1 parking
Industrial establishments               space for each 2 employees, whichever
                                        is greater, and 1 loading or unloading
                                        berth for each 25,000 square feet or
                                        fraction thereof of gross floor area
Medical or dental clinics or offices    6 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees
                                        1 space for each 300 square feet of
Office building                         gross floor area in the building,
                                        exclusive of the area used for storage,
                                        utilities and building service
 
(1997 Code § 12-234)
 
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Preamble
11-11-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
11-11-3: Nonconforming Structures
11-11-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
11-11-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
11-11-6: Changes In Nonconformities
11-11-1: PREAMBLE:
Within the districts established by this title or amendments that may later be
adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and structures which
were lawful before this title was passed or amended but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this title or future
amendment. It is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for
adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. A
nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after the effective date hereof. (1997 Code § 12-251)
11-11-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which a lot exists of record at the effective date hereof
which does not conform to the size or area requirements of this title,
buildings for the uses permitted in such district may be erected on such lot,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this title;
provided, that such lot is in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. (1997 Code § 12-252)
11-11-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date hereof that could not be
built under the terms of this title by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity;
   B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
title; or
   C.   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved. (1997 Code § 12-253)
11-11-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date hereof that would not be allowed in the district
under the terms of this title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
effective date hereof, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land
outside such building;
   C.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
   D.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located; or
   E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. (1997 Code § 12-254)
11-11-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, at the effective date hereof, lawful uses of land exist that are no
longer permissible under the terms of this title as enacted or amended, such
uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   No such conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date hereof;
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date hereof;
or
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than thirty (30) days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which
such land is located. (1997 Code § 12-255)
11-11-6: CHANGES IN NONCONFORMITIES:
A nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and land in combination,
shall not be changed unless changed to a use permitted in the district in which
located; except, that the board of adjustment may permit a change to a more
restricted nonconforming use, and such change shall be construed as an
abandonment of the former permitted nonconforming use. (1997 Code § 12-256)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Subdivision Provisions   1
Subdivision Plats And Procedures   2
Design Standards   3
Improvements   4
Appendices   5
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Statute Authority
12-1-3: Purpose And Intent
12-1-4: Scope And Applicability
12-1-5: Compliance Required
12-1-6: Definitions
12-1-7: Modification Of Provisions
12-1-8: Amendments
12-1-9: Violation; Penalty
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF NEW
CORDELL, OKLAHOMA. (1997 Code § 12-402)
12-1-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the authority granted the city in 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 41-101 et seq. (1997 Code § 12-403; amd. 2014 Code)
12-1-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This title is designed to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community by establishing standards for the subdivision
of land within the city's jurisdiction.
   B.   The provisions of this title are specifically designed to:
      1.   Lessen the congestion on streets;
      2.   Promote the orderly layout and use of land;
      3.   Secure safety from fire and other dangers;
      4.   Provide adequate light and air;
      5.   Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks, playgrounds and other public requirements; and
      6.   Protect neighborhood areas from the hazard of through traffic.
   C.   This title is designed and intended to achieve the following and should
be administered so as to:
      1.   Implement the official city plan;
      2.   Provide for conservation of existing standard residential areas and
prevent the development of slums and blight;
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the whole community;
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract;
      6.   Reconcile any differences of interest; and
      7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (1997
Code § 12-401)
12-1-4: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
This title shall govern the subdivision of land within the corporate limits of
the city and shall apply to the following forms of land subdivision:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than five (5)
acres in area;
   B.   The division of land, previously subdivided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels of less than ten (10) acres in area;
   C.   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved. (1997 Code § 12-404)
12-1-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement, or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land in a
subdivision filed of record after the effective date hereof which does not
comply with all of the provisions of this title. (1997 Code § 12-473)
12-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside
of which a building may not be erected.
   CITY: The city of New Cordell, Oklahoma.
   CITY COUNCIL: The official governing body of the city.
   EASEMENT: A grant of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes by the
property owner to the public, a corporation or persons.
   LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
   LOT SPLIT: Any division of land by metes and bounds description into two (2)
or more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, and which does not constitute a "subdivision" as herein defined.
   OFFICIAL CITY PLAN: The city plan or plans for the city, and also refers to
the specific document "comprehensive plan - New Cordell, Oklahoma".
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission, as established by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 45-101 et seq.; also referred to as "city planning
commission".
   PLAT, FINAL: A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications, and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets and alleys, public areas, and other dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the
character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   STREET, ARTERIAL: A major street which is designated in the thoroughfare
plan or official city plan and designed to carry intercity traffic and to
relate the various neighborhood within the city.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: Those streets designed to carry intracity traffic
connecting neighborhood areas to a major street which purpose is to collect
traffic from other minor streets and to serve as the most direct route to a
major street or to a community facility.
   STREET, COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL: A street which abuts a commercial or
industrial zoned property and is designed to provide access to those parcels so
designated.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and having one closed and terminated by a turnaround.
   STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE: A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of an arterial street for service to abutting properties and adjacent
areas and for control of access.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A service road or other roadway normally running
parallel to or with an arterial street for the purpose of intercepting traffic
from abutting property or intersecting streets for the purpose of limiting
access to the arterial street main roadway.
   STREET, MINOR: Any street not specifically classified on the thoroughfare
plan whose primary purpose is to provide access to adjacent properties.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation or other entity
acting as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION: The division or redivision of land by map into two (2) or more
lots, tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development, or the dedication or vacation of a public or private right of way
or easement.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN: The part of an official city plan referring to
transportation development goals, principles and standards. (1997 Code § 12-
405; amd. 2014 Code)
12-1-7: MODIFICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Whenever it would be inadvisable to apply a provision of this title because a
tract is of such unusual size, shape, or character as would render an
extraordinary hardship not created or imposed by the owner or developer, the
planning commission may modify such provisions only to provide that substantial
justice may be done, the public interest secured, and the intent and spirit of
this title fulfilled; provided, that in no event shall the requirements of
procedure or improvements be waived. Such modification thus granted shall be
made at the written request of the developer stating the reasons for such
modification and shall be waived only by three-fourths (3/4) vote of the
regular membership of the planning commission. Any such modifications thus
granted shall be duly entered and recorded in the minutes of the planning
commission, with the reasons justifying the modifications set forth therein.
(1997 Code § 12-471)
12-1-8: AMENDMENTS:
The city council may, from time to time, adopt, amend, and make public rules
and regulations for the administration of this title to the end that the public
be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. This title may be enlarged
or amended by the city council after public hearing, due notice of which shall
be given as required by law. (1997 Code § 12-472)
12-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this title shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by fine. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this title shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (1997 Code § 12-473)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Preliminary Plat
12-2-2: Final Plat
12-2-3: Fees
12-2-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submission Of Plat:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit at least ten (10) copies of the
preliminary plat to the city clerk who shall distribute them as follows:
         a.   One copy each to the:
            (1)   School board;
            (2)   Local gas company;
            (3)   Local electric company;
            (4)   Local telephone company;
            (5)   Oklahoma state highway commission; and
            (6)   Board of county commissioners; and
         b.   Four (4) copies to the planning commission.
      2.   The planning commission shall return one to the subdivider and
forward one to the city council, together with its report and recommendation,
and retain the other copies for its use and official record.
   B.   Approval Or Rejection Of Plat:
      1.   After receipt of the preliminary plat, the planning commission
shall, within thirty (30) days of its submission, approve, conditionally
approve, or reject the plat. The subdivider shall be notified in writing of
this action, together with any conditions of approval or the reasons for
rejection.
      2.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not in all cases entitle the
subdivider to approval of the final plat. After preliminary approval, if any
conditions arise which would cause the preliminary plat to become
unsatisfactory due to health, safety, or welfare of the community, the planning
commission shall recommend that the final plat be rejected. (1997 Code § 12-
431)
   C.   Required Data And Information:
      1.   The preliminary plat shall be drawn on suitable tracing paper or
cloth with black waterproof ink or pencil; however, legible reproduction of the
drawings may be submitted. The plat shall be drawn to a scale of one hundred
feet to the inch (1" = 100') and shall contain the following information:
         a.   Date, scale, and north point;
         b.   The proposed subdivision name and all intended street names;
         c.   The name of the subdivider or the engineer or surveyor preparing
the plat;
         d.   Legal description showing location of plat;
         e.   Topographic survey map of the areas being subdivided, showing
contours at two foot (2') intervals;
         f.   A key map showing the location of the plat in the section,
township and range in which the plat is located (see section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 9);
         g.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
         h.   Location, widths, and names of all existing platted or dedicated
streets, alleys, or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility
rights of way, parks, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings,
bridges, and other pertinent data as required by the planning commission;
         i.   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of
the survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall refer to the established U.S. coast and geodetic
survey datum;
         j.   When a subdivision borders a lake or stream, the distance and
bearings of a meander line shall be established not less than twenty feet (20')
back from the ordinary high water mark of the lake or from the bank of the
stream;
         k.   Layout and width of all new streets and rights of way, including
alleys, highways, and easements, whether private or public, and for public and
private utilities;
         l.   The exact length of the exterior boundaries of the land to be
subdivided;
         m.   Approximate dimensions of all lots;
         n.   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents; and
         o.   Approximate location and area of property to be dedicated for
public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all property owners in
the subdivision, with any conditions of such dedication or reservation. (1997
Code § 12-432)
      2.   Where deed restrictions are to be recorded on the plat, a brief
description of the proposed restrictions should accompany the preliminary plat.
      3.   A description of the improvements such as grading, paving, tree
planting, walks, and installation of utilities which the subdivider proposes to
make, and the time when they are proposed to be made, shall also accompany the
preliminary plat. (1997 Code § 12-433)
12-2-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Description: The final plat shall be a print or series of prints twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") in size on a stable base tracing
medium of mylar, conar, or other suitable durable material or linen tracing
cloth. When more than one sheet is used in connection with the plat, each
additional sheet shall be numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation
indicating the total number of sheets.
   B.   Submission Of Plat:
      1.   The developer shall submit sufficient copies for examination, but in
no case shall there be less than the following:
         a.   Five (5) paper copies and one copy on stable base tracing medium
of mylar or comparable cronaflex of the proposed subdivision, drawn to a scale
of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Such final plat shall be
prepared by a registered civil engineer or surveyor; and
         b.   Five (5) copies of any restrictive covenants.
      2.   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
planning commission and city council for final approval within one year of the
date on which the preliminary plat was approved. If not submitted for final
approval within such time, the preliminary plat approval shall be considered as
null and void unless the planning commission agrees to an extension of time.
The final plat shall be filed in the office of the county clerk within six (6)
months after approval of the city council, and if not filed within such time,
the approval shall be considered null and void.
   C.   Required Information: The final plat shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The name of the subdivision and the name of the owner, the
subdivider, and the engineer or land surveyor;
      2.   Date, north point, and scale (written and graphic);
      3.   Boundaries of the subdivided area with accurate distances and
bearings noted thereon;
      4.   Exact location of the subdivision and the description of all
monuments found or placed in making the survey;
      5.   The lines, names, and width or dimensions of all proposed street
rights of way;
      6.   The lines, widths, and purposes of all easements;
      7.   Numbered designation of all lots in the subdivision with their lines
and dimensions accurately shown;
      8.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions;
      9.   Certification by the registered professional engineer or land
surveyor who designed the plat as to the accuracy of the survey and plat;
      10.   Dedication by the owner of lands for public use, including streets
and walkways;
      11.   Exact dimensions of all lots;
      12.   Exact radii of all curves and length of all tangents; and
      13.   Any additional data as may be required by the planning commission.
(1997 Code § 12-435)
   D.   Planning Commission Action:
      1.   The planning commission shall review the final plat for conformance
with the preliminary plat and shall prepare a set of written recommendations to
be submitted to the city council at the time the final plat is considered.
      2.   The planning commission shall examine the final plat and shall
approve or disapprove the plat within thirty (30) days of the date of its
submittal. If the final plat is approved with the modification or waiver of
certain requirements, the planning commission shall specify the reasons
therefor. If the final plat is disapproved, the grounds for refusal, including
citation of the applicable regulations or general plan, shall be stated on the
records of the planning commission. If the planning commission fails to act, a
certificate by the city clerk as to date of submission of plat for final
approval and failure of the planning commission to act thereon within such
specified time shall be sufficient in lieu of written endorsement of approval.
      3.   The action of the planning commission shall be shown on the final
plat, with the date of action, over the signature of the chair, vice chair, or
secretary.
      4.   The planning commission shall transmit to the city council the
tracing and two (2) paper copies of the final plat, together with four (4)
copies of the restrictive covenants, and a listing of all required improvements
indicating that they have been installed, or that a contract and bond insuring
their installation, satisfactory to the city council, has been executed and
received by the city clerk.
      5.   The city clerk shall transmit a copy of the final plat as approved
by the planning commission to the school board affected, the public utility
companies, and utility departments.
      6.   After the planning commission and city council have approved the
final plat, no change shall be made therein unless the plat is resubmitted for
approval of the planning commission and city council. (1997 Code § 12-451)
   E.   City Council Action: Before recording the final plat, it shall be
submitted to the city council for approval and for acceptance of public ways,
service and utility easements, and land dedicated to public use. This approval
of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and attested to by
the city clerk or his deputy. The disapproval of any plat by the city council
shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication shown thereon. (1997 Code
§ 12-452)
   F.   Recording Final Plat: After final approval of the plat and the affixing
of all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall
provide the planning commission with two (2) dark line prints thereof and one
contact reproducible cloth tracing, the tracing to be filed with the city
clerk. One dark line print shall be retained in the permanent file of the
planning commission and one shall be sent to the office of the city clerk. The
applicant shall file, within six (6) months after the date of approval by the
city council, the original tracing, one dark line copy on lineback, and one
contact reproducible cloth tracing or film with the city clerk. (1997 Code §
12-461)
12-2-3: FEES:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: The subdivider shall pay to the city a preliminary
plat and application fee as set by the council by motion or resolution.
   B.   Final Plat: The subdivider shall pay to the city a final plat filing
fee as set by the council by motion or resolution. When acreage is involved,
such as sites for industrial, housing projects and commercial purposes, the fee
shall be figured as set by the council per acre. (1997 Code § 12-434)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Streets
12-3-2: Alleys
12-3-3: Easements
12-3-4: Blocks
12-3-5: Lots
12-3-6: Street And Subdivision Names
12-3-7: Marginal Land
12-3-1: STREETS:
   A.   Street Plan And Relation To Adjoining Street System:
      1.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets in a proposed subdivision shall conform to the official city plan and
this title.
      2.   All streets shall be related to existing and proposed streets in the
area, topographical conditions, public convenience and safety, and existing and
proposed land uses along such streets.
      3.   All streets shall be platted in such a manner that all resulting
lots shall conform to the applicable zoning regulations.
      4.   Where such streets are not shown in the official city plan, the
arrangements of these streets in the subdivision shall either:
         a.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing streets in the surrounding areas; or
         b.   Conform to a neighborhood plan approved or adopted by the
planning commission.
      5.   Minor streets shall be laid out so as to discourage through traffic.
      6.   Where a residential subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare, the planning commission shall require:
         a.   Marginal access streets;
         b.   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation along the rear property lines;
         c.   Deep lots with rear service streets; or
         d.   Such other treatment as may be necessary for the adequate
protection and stabilization of residential properties and to afford separation
of through and local traffic. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 1.) (1997 Code § 12-411)
   B.   Border Streets: Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad
right of way or limited access highway, the planning commission may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right of way. (1997
Code § 12-412)
   C.   Reserve Strips Prohibited: Reserve strips designed and used for the
primary purpose of controlling access to minor streets by parties or persons
other than a public agency shall be prohibited. (1997 Code § 12-413)
   D.   Alignment:
      1.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 2.)
      2.   A tangent of not less than one hundred feet (100') in length shall
be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets. (See
section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 2.)
      3.   Minimum clear sight distance, measured along the chord of the
centerline, shall be provided on all streets as follows:
 
Arterial streets  400 feet
Collector streets 350 feet
Minor streets     250 feet
 
(1997 Code § 12-414)
   E.   Rights Of Way And Roadway Widths; Paved Streets: Street rights of way
and roadway widths shall conform to the official city plan. All streets shall
be paved according to the established standards adopted by the city council.
The following minimum standards shall apply:
Street Type        Right Of Way Width Roadway
Expressway         As per design
Primary arterial   100 feet           50 feet
Secondary arterial 100 feet           32 feet
Collector          60 feet            32 feet
Commercial         70 feet            44 feet
Industrial         60 feet            26 feet
Residential        60 feet            26 feet
 
   F.   Half Streets:
      1.   Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this title.
      2.   In no event shall lots facing a one-half (1/2) minor residential
street be permitted.
      3.   Wherever an existing half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
(1997 Code § 12-415)
   G.   Arterial Street Frontage Access Control:
      1.   No access on an arterial street shall occur within minimum intervals
of six hundred feet (600'), measured from the nearest intersecting rights of
way lines (except as modified by subsection G2 of this section); the distance
may be extended or increased if traffic conditions, as determined by the
planning commission, warrant such extension. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, numbers 6 and 8.)
      2.   In commercial and industrial subdivisions, specifically designated
"one-way turn only" access may be provided in the direction of the adjacent
traffic lane at a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') between major
street intersections or a minimum of three hundred feet (300') between each
access point. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 10.)
      3.   Commercial or industrial subdivisions should have access to an
arterial or commercial street, and may have access to a collector street, if
traffic conditions, as determined by the planning commission, warrant such
extension, but shall not have access to a residential street. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 10.)
      4.   To assure traffic safety, appropriate nonaccess provisions shall be
designated and dimensioned along all abutting streets in commercial and
industrial subdivisions, and along major streets in residential subdivisions. A
description of such nonaccess provisions shall appear upon the plat.
      5.   Access to property occurring within the minimum distance prescribed
for major street access, six hundred feet (600'), shall only be by the closest
service or frontage road entrance onto the major street. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 6.)
      6.   Individual driveways will be so located on each lot to avoid direct
vehicular access to or from any expressway, thoroughfare, or arterial street.
Driveways should be located to enable direct access primarily to or from a
minor street or, if necessary, to the collector streets which serve as feeders
to or distributors from the major streets. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, numbers 1 and 6.) (1997 Code § 12-416)
   H.   Street Grades: The minimum grade of all streets shall be four-tenths
percent (0.4%). Except where unusual topographic conditions justify an
exception, the maximum grade of all streets shall not be greater than the
following:
 
Street Type Grade
Arterial    3 percent
Collector   5 percent
Service     7 percent
 
(1997 Code § 12-418)
   I.   Intersections:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out to intersect at right angles and may be
curved, if necessary, in order to make this possible. In no event shall a
street intersect any other street at any angle of less than seventy five
degrees (75°).
      2.   Street corners on local residential streets shall have a minimum
radius of twenty feet (20') at the curb line or its equivalent.
      3.   Street corners on commercial and industrial streets shall have a
minimum radius of twenty five feet (25') at the curb line or its equivalent.
Street intersections involving major thoroughfares shall have a minimum street
corner radius of thirty feet (30') at the curb line or its equivalent.
      4.   All street corner radii shall be shown on the preliminary and final
plats. (1997 Code § 12-419)
      5.   A thirty foot (30') area of clear vision at street intersections in
subdivisions shall be provided. This area shall be kept clear of all structures
and vegetation exceeding a height of three feet (3') above the established city
street elevation. (See section
 12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 4.) (1997 Code § 12-419; amd. 2014
Code)
   J.   Cul-De-Sacs And Dead End Streets:
      1.   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be five hundred feet (500')
except where topography would render impracticable the standard distance as set
forth in section
12-3-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Each cul-de-sac shall be provided with a turnaround having a minimum
right of way radius of fifty feet (50'). (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 5.)
      3.   The road surface within the cul-de-sac right of way shall have a
minimum width of thirty feet (30').
      4.   In the case of temporarily dead ended streets which are stub streets
designed to provide further connection with adjoining unsubdivided areas, the
planning commission may require:
         a.   Temporary easement for a turnaround having a radius of fifty feet
(50'); or
         b.   An appropriate area for a backaround. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 7.)
      5.   In all instances, proper provisions shall be made for adequate storm
drainage so that stormwater does not collect at the ends of these streets.
(1997 Code § 12-420)
12-3-2: ALLEYS:
   A.   Required In Commercial Districts: Alleys shall be provided in all
commercial districts except where a commercial district will be developed as a
self-contained unit; then other provisions shall be made on the site for
service drives and service areas.
   B.   Width:
      1.   Alleys in residential areas shall not be less than twenty feet (20')
in width when provided.
      2.   Alleys in commercial areas shall not be less than thirty feet (30')
in width and shall be paved.
   C.   Dead End Alleys: Dead end alleys are prohibited except where natural or
other features make it impossible to continue them. Where dead end alleys are
unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround areas with a
minimum radius of forty feet (40') at the dead end. Backaround areas may be
allowed in residential subdivisions. (See sections
12-5-2 and
12-5-3 of this title.) (1997 Code § 12-421)
12-3-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Where alleys are not provided or may not be used for utility purposes,
easements shall be provided as may be advisable for poles, wires, conduits,
storm sewers, sanitary sewers, gas lines, water mains and lines, and other
similar purposes.
   B.   Rear yard easements shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide. In the
event one-half (1/2) of an easement is platted, it shall be not less than ten
feet (10') in width.
   C.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and
such further width of construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
   D.   Twenty foot (20') utility easements shall be provided at the end of
cul-de-sacs along major thoroughfares. (1997 Code § 12-422)
12-3-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   In general, blocks should have the following dimensions and shall be
subject to adjustment upon recommendation by the planning commission where
topography, the character of the proposed development, or other similar
conditions justify blocks of greater or lesser length or width:
 
       Minimum  Maximum
Length 600 feet 1,200 feet
Width  240 feet 400 feet
 
   B.   Block lengths and widths shall be measured from the street right of way
line.
   C.   Wherever blocks are longer than one thousand feet (1,000'), crosswalks
may be required at the approximate center of the block. (See section
12-5-2 of this title, appendix B, number 3.) (1997 Code § 12-423)
12-3-5: LOTS:
   A.   The lot size, width, depth, shape, orientation, and minimum building
setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and the
type of development and use contemplated.
   B.   Lot dimensions shall conform to the existing zoning regulations, but in
no case shall the width of a lot designed for residential use be less than
fifty feet (50').
   C.   Each lot shall have access and front upon a public street.
   D.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where their use will produce definite advantages in meeting special situations
in relation to topography and proper land use.
   E.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines. (1997 Code § 12-424)
 
12-3-6: STREET AND SUBDIVISION NAMES:
   A.   Street Names: No street shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be referred to
the post office for recommendation and subject to the approval of the planning
commission and the city council.
   B.   Subdivision Names: Subdivision names shall not duplicate existing
subdivisions of record. (1997 Code § 12-417)
12-3-7: MARGINAL LAND:
When a plat is filed on land that is subject to flooding or has been flooded
within the last twenty (20) years, and corrective measures have not been taken
to prevent flooding, or when the land has soil conditions unsuitable for
building purposes, the plat shall not be acceptable except where the property
is dedicated to the city subject to its acceptance for a watercourse, water
drainage basin, park or conservancy district or any other purpose of protecting
the health, safety and general welfare of the public. (1997 Code § 12-425; amd.
2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Required Improvements; Bond
12-4-2: Public Sites And Open Spaces
12-4-3: Monuments
12-4-1: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; BOND:
   A.   Any final plat or subdivision located within the corporate limits shall
not be approved unless the subdivider or developer shall provide the facilities
listed below or file a surety bond with the city clerk to insure the actual
construction of such improvements according to the plans and specifications
approved by the city council or city engineer within a period of time not to
exceed one year from date of final plat approval. Such bond shall equal one
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of improvements as estimated by the city
council or city engineer. Conditions stipulated by the bond shall be acceptable
to the city attorney and city council. No building shall take place until such
facilities have been constructed.
      1.   Water mains properly connected with the public water supply system
provided to ensure adequate water flow for fire protection;
      2.   A sanitary sewer system properly connected with the existing system,
in accordance with standard specifications governing sanitary sewer
construction and in accord with requirements of state and county health
departments;
      3.   Streets graded to the full roadway width and to the established
grade. Such streets shall be paved with a stable base material such as concrete
or asphalt; and
      4.   Storm drainage facilities, curbs and gutters to provide adequate
surface water drainage for the area being drained.
   B.   All such facilities shall be installed according to plans and
specifications of the city.
   C.   All lots in residential subdivisions where septic tanks or individual
sewerage disposal devices are to be installed shall not contain less than
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, and the width of the lot at the building
line shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100'). All such lots to be
serviced by private sewerage facilities shall comply with the regulations of
the county and the state board of health. (1997 Code § 12-442)
12-4-2: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Where a site for a proposed park, playground, play field, school,
library, fire station, or other public use is proposed by the official city
plan, or is deemed by the planning commission to be necessary, and is located
in whole or in part in a subdivision, the planning commission may require the
reservation of such area within the subdivision.
   B.   The developer shall give the public agency involved sixty (60) days'
written notice of the proposed subdivision, with a copy of such notice to be
mailed to the planning commission. During the sixty (60) day period, the agency
may or may not express its interest in the proposed subdivision in connection
with the provision of appropriate public site. Should such interest be
expressed, that agency shall have a period of an additional thirty (30) days
within which to arrange for the acquisition of the public site under
consideration.
   C.   Where the proposed subdivision is too small to provide space of
suitable size for the public site intended, the site provided may be combined
with that provided or to be provided in adjoining areas; thus, in the
aggregate, there will be provided a site of suitable size for the purpose
intended. (1997 Code § 12-443)
12-4-3: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Specifications: Each block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or
pins not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") long and placed at least one inch (1") below finished grade.
   B.   Moving Monuments: Monuments marking property lines and corners shall
not be disturbed; or if such disturbance is necessary, the monuments shall be
replaced at the exact spot from which they were removed. (1997 Code § 12-441)
CHAPTER 5
APPENDICES
SECTION:
12-5-1: Appendix A, Required Certificates
12-5-2: Appendix B, Design Standards
12-5-3: Appendix C, Administrative Procedures And Checklists
12-5-1: APPENDIX A, REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
The following certificates are required:
   A.   Subdivision improvement bond.
   B.   Owner's certificate and deed of dedication.
   C.   Surveyor's certificate.
   D.   City clerk's certificate.
   E.   Planning commission approval.
   F.   Acceptance of deed of dedication by city.
   G.   County treasurer's certificate. (1997 Code part 12 ch. 4 appendix A)
12-5-2: APPENDIX B, DESIGN STANDARDS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1433.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1435.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1437.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1439.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1441.png]
 
(1997 Code part 12 ch. 4 appendix B)
12-5-3: APPENDIX C, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND CHECKLISTS:
Subdivision regulations fall generally into two (2) classes administratively:
either a two (2) step procedure or a three (3) step procedure.
   A.   The three (3) step procedure calls for:
      1.   Preapplication conference;
      2.   Submission of a preliminary plat; and
      3.   Preparation and filing of a final plat.
   B.   The two (2) step procedure does not require the preapplication
conference. Otherwise, the two (2) processes are the same. The two (2) step
procedure is recommended for the city.
   C.   The following charts illustrate the recommended administrative
procedure for proper enforcement of the two (2) step subdivision procedure:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1443.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1445.png]
 
Checklists:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1447.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1451.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/32642f72c96dff4dede6d2df70ebc373d81cfada/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1449.png]
 
(1997 Code part 12 ch. 4 appendix C)
 
