OILTON, OK
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 203, passed August 14, 2018
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This City Code of the City of Oilton, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 203, passed August 14, 2018. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this City Code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the Code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OILTON CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Oilton. This code shall be
known and cited as OILTON CITY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the
city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect. (2016
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the
corporate limits thereof, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as they
are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in the
future shall also apply to and be in full effect within the boundaries of all
said outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (2015 Code § 1-110)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2015 Code § 1-107)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Tax levy ordinances;
      2.   Appropriation ordinances;
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
      6.   Salary ordinances;
      7.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
      8.   Improvement ordinances;
      9.   Bond ordinances;
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections;
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and
      12.   All special ordinances. (2016 Code)
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. (2015 Code § 1-104)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is
imposed upon a public officer or employee, the power may be performed by an
authorized deputy or designee or by any person authorized pursuant to law or
ordinance, unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Or; And: The word "or" may be read "and"; the word "and" may be read
"or", if the sense requires it.
   G.   Joint Authority: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   H.   Law: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution
and statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Oilton".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Oath: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in
all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and
in such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed".
   N.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2015 Code §
1-102; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code and all ordinances, the following definitions
shall be observed unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and
city council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
CITY: The city of Oilton, county of Creek, state of Oklahoma.
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: Creek County, Oklahoma.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be. (2015 Code § 1-102; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or any
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Provided, however, that the fine and cost for such unlawful act or
offense shall not be greater than the maximum fine and cost established by
Oklahoma state statutes for the same offense.
   C.   Provided further, that any conviction of an offense relating to
speeding or parking shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding two hundred
dollars ($200.00).
   D.   Provided further, that any conviction of an offense relating to
speeding in excess of the posted speed limit by no more than ten (10) miles per
hour upon any portion of the National System Of Interstate And Defense
Highways, federal aid primary highways, and the state highway system which are
located on the outskirts of the city, as determined by 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-117, shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding ten dollars
($10.00).
   E.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in this
section. (2016 Code)
1-4-2: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (2016 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-4: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND WARD BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Map
1-5-2: Ward Boundaries
1-5-1: OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city through and including the date of October 1, 1989.
(2015 Code § 1-201)
1-5-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The city shall be divided into four (4) wards, numbered 1 through 4, and the
boundaries shall be as follows:
   A.   Ward 1: Ward 1 shall consist of the following described area:
Council district 1 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Oilton
within the following boundaries:
Beginning at a point being the intersection of the centerlines of North B
Avenue and East 6th Street, thence east along the centerline of East 6th Street
to the intersection of State Highway 99, thence continuing east along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 490 feet, thence south along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 970 feet, thence east along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 405 feet, thence south along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 1,068 feet, thence east along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 690 feet, thence south along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 544 feet to the centerline of East
Peterson Street, thence west along the centerline of East Peterson Street to
the centerline of M Avenue, thence north along the centerline of M Avenue to
the centerline of East 1st Street, thence west along the centerline of East 1st
Street to the centerline of South B Avenue, thence north along the centerline
of South B Avenue and continuing along North B Avenue to the centerline of East
6th Street, said point being the point of beginning.
   B.   Ward 2: Ward 2 shall consist of the following described area:
Council district 2 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Oilton
within the following boundaries:
Beginning at a point being the intersection of the centerlines of North B
Avenue and 6th Street, thence south along the centerline of North B Avenue and
continuing along South B Avenue to the centerline of West 2nd Street, thence
west along the centerline of West 2nd Street to the centerline of Westwood
Avenue, thence north along the centerline of Westwood Avenue to the centerline
of West 6th Street, thence east along the centerline of West 6th Street
approximately 1,339 feet to the corporate limit boundary, thence north along
the corporate limit boundary approximately 277 feet, thence east along the
corporate limit boundary approximately 1,353 feet to the centerline of North A
Avenue, thence south along the centerline of North A Avenue to the centerline
of East 6th Street, thence west along the centerline of East 6th Street to the
centerline of North B Avenue said point also being the point of beginning.
   C.   Ward 3: Ward 3 shall consist of the following described area:
Council district 3 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Oilton
within the following boundaries:
Beginning at a point being the intersection of the centerlines of West 2nd
Street and Santa Fe Avenue, thence south along the centerline of Santa Fe
Avenue to the centerline of West 1st Street, thence west along the centerline
of West 1st Street, to the centerline of Long Avenue, thence south along the
centerline of Long Avenue to the centerline of Ash Street, thence west along
the centerline of Ash Street to the centerline of South D Avenue, thence south
along the centerline of South D Avenue to the centerline of Rodgers Street,
thence west along the centerline of Rodgers Street approximately 584 feet to
the corporate limit boundary, thence south along the corporate limit boundary
approximately 233 feet, thence west continuing along the corporate limit
boundary approximately 140 feet, thence south approximately 410 feet, thence
west approximately 213 feet to the centerline of Westwood Avenue, thence south
along the centerline of Westwood Avenue to the centerline of 61st Street,
thence west along the centerline of 61st Street approximately 381 feet to the
corporate limit boundary, thence north continuing along the corporate limit
boundary approximately 620 feet, thence east along the corporate limit boundary
approximately 366 feet to the centerline of Westwood Avenue, thence north along
the centerline of Westwood Avenue to the centerline of Cemetery Road, thence
west along the centerline of Cemetery Road approximately 146 feet to the
corporate limit boundary, thence north approximately 112 feet, thence west
approximately 111 feet, thence north approximately 45 feet, thence west
approximately 46 feet, thence south still following the corporate limit
boundary approximately 156 feet to the centerline of Cemetery Road, thence west
along the centerline of Cemetery Road approximately 719 feet to the corporate
limit boundary, thence north along the corporate limit boundary approximately
1,305 feet, thence east approximately 443 feet, thence south approximately 165
feet, thence east approximately 641 feet to the centerline of Westwood Avenue,
thence south along the centerline of Westwood Avenue to the centerline of West
2nd Street, thence east along the centerline of West 2nd Street to the
centerline of Santa Fe Avenue said point also being the point of beginning.
   D.   Ward 4: Ward 4 shall consist of the following described area:
Council district 4 shall consist of that area and portion of the city of Oilton
within the following boundaries:
Beginning at a point being the intersection of the centerlines of West 2nd
Street and Santa Fe Avenue, thence east along the centerline of West 2nd Street
to the centerline of South B Avenue, thence south along the centerline of South
B Avenue to the centerline of East 1st Street, thence east along the centerline
of East 1st Street to the centerline of M Avenue, thence south along the
centerline of M Avenue to the centerline of East Peterson Street, thence east
along the centerline of East Peterson Street approximately 1,105 feet to the
corporate limit boundary, thence south approximately 94 feet, thence east
approximately 3,530 feet, thence south still continuing to follow the corporate
limit boundary 2,468 feet to the centerline of Old Highway 51, thence southeast
along the centerline of Old Highway 51 approximately 358 feet to the corporate
limit boundary, thence southeast approximately 44 feet, thence south
approximately 469 feet, thence west approximately 378 feet to the centerline of
South 513th West Avenue, thence north along the centerline of South 513th West
Avenue approximately 528 feet to the corporate limit boundary, thence west
following the corporate limit boundary approximately 866 feet to the centerline
of Old Highway 51, thence west along the centerline of Old Highway 51
approximately 2,777 feet to unnamed road and the corporate limit boundary,
thence south approximately 238 feet, thence west approximately 607 feet, thence
north approximately 214 feet, thence east continuing along the corporate limit
boundary approximately 171 feet, thence north approximately 48 feet to the
centerline of Old Highway 51, thence west along the centerline of Old Highway
51 approximately 121 feet, thence north approximately 474 feet, thence west
approximately 244 feet, thence north approximately 338 feet, thence east
approximately 144 feet, thence north approximately 520 feet, thence west
approximately 317 feet, thence south approximately 710 feet, thence west
approximately 431 feet, thence south approximately 230 feet, thence west
approximately 263 feet to the centerline of the south bound lanes of State
Highway 99, thence south along the centerline of the south bound lanes of State
Highway 99 to the centerline of 61st Street, thence west along the centerline
of 61st Street approximately 657 feet to the corporate limit boundary, thence
north along the corporate limit boundary approximately 1,335 feet to the
centerline of Rodgers Street, thence west along the centerline of Rodgers
Street to the centerline of South D Avenue, thence north along the centerline
of South D Avenue to the centerline of Ash Street, thence east along the
centerline of Ash Street to the centerline of Long Avenue, thence north along
the centerline of Long Avenue to the centerline of West 1st Street, thence east
along the centerline of West 1st Street to the centerline of Santa Fe Avenue,
thence north along the centerline of Santa Fe Avenue to the centerline of West
2nd Street said point also being the point of beginning.
Less and except the out parcel found in Section 32 Township 19 North, Range 7
East.
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FORM OF GOVERNMENT; MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Form Of Government; Statute Authority
1-6-2: City Council And Other Elected Officers
1-6-3: Mayor
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-6-1: FORM OF GOVERNMENT; STATUTE AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 9-101, the City
shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted, or which may be granted, to cities governed by the
statutory aldermanic form of government. These powers shall be exercised as
provided by law applicable to cities under the statutory aldermanic form of
government or, if the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the City
Council may prescribe. The powers, rights and authorities of the City,
including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and
exercised by the City Council. (2015 Code § 2-101; amd. 2016 Code)
1-6-2: CITY COUNCIL AND OTHER ELECTED OFFICERS:
   A.   Composition; Elected Officials: The City Council shall consist of eight
(8) members, with two (2) Council members elected from each ward in the City.
   B.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   The term of office for a Council member shall be four (4) years
beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday following the
general Municipal election. The Council member shall serve until his successor
is elected and qualified. The terms of the Council members shall be staggered
so that at one general Municipal election, the following Council members are
elected for four (4) year terms: (2015 Code § 2-102)
         a.   One Council member from each ward;
         b.   Mayor; and
         c.   Clerk. (2015 Code § 2-102; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   At the next general Municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four (4) year terms:
         a.   One Council member from each ward; and
         b.   Treasurer.
   C.   Vacancies: The resolution of the City Council calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Council member shall state the number of
four (4) year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled.
(2015 Code § 2-102)
1-6-3: MAYOR:
The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and certify to the correct
enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed thereby. The Mayor is not
considered a member of the Council for quorum or voting purposes; except, that
he may vote on questions under consideration by the Council only when the
Council is equally divided. The Mayor may sign or veto any City ordinance or
resolution passed by the City Council. The Mayor shall be Chief Executive
Officer and head of the administrative branch of the City government. He is
also recognized as the head of the City government for all ceremonial purposes
and by the Governor for purposes of military law. He shall have such powers and
duties as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. (2015 Code § 2-201)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The City Council shall meet regularly, on the second
Tuesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., and at such other times as
it may prescribe by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise. Where the day for a
meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the State, the meeting
shall be held on an alternate date, as designated by the City Council, pursuant
to the Oklahoma Open Meetings Act. (2016 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any
three (3) Council members. (Ord. 200, 7-11-2017)
   C.   Location Of Meetings: Every meeting of the city council shall be held
in the city hall unless, in case of an emergency, the mayor designates another
place in the city for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting
may be held at any other place within the city designated by the city council.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of all the members of the council shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day. (2016
Code)
1-6-5: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The city council may determine its own rules, and may compel the
attendance of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the council
may prescribe. Whenever a council member is absent from more than one-half (1/
2) of all meetings of the council, regular and special, held within any period
of four (4) consecutive months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   B.   The order of business for each meeting of the council may be as posted
on the agenda for the meeting.
   C.   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the council unless four (4) council members agree to waive the rule
or rules:
      1.   At the request of the mayor or any council member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing;
      2.   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the council shall
not be entertained unless it is made by a member who previously voted in the
majority;
      3.   No motion shall be debated or put until it is seconded and stated by
the mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the council and
cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the council;
      4.   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         a.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         b.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         c.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         d.   While a vote is being taken;
A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the meeting is
adjourned;
      5.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   For the previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a day certain;
         e.   To commit;
         f.   To amend; or
         g.   To postpone indefinitely,
which several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand arranged;
      6.   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      7.   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the council shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      8.   On an amendment being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      9.   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative is put;
      10.   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by the
presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated unless
under motion for reconsideration; and
      11.   Except as otherwise provided herein or in rules of the council,
"Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern meetings of the council. (2015 Code § 2-
104)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Specific City Officials
1-7-1-1: City Clerk
1-7-1-2: City Treasurer
1-7-1-3: Deputy City Clerk And Deputy City Treasurer
1-7-1-4: City Attorney
1-7-1-5: City Health Officer
1-7-2: Other Officers And Personnel
1-7-3: Bonds
1-7-4: Oath
1-7-5: Compensation
1-7-6: Continuance In Office Until Successors Are Elected And Qualify
1-7-1: SPECIFIC CITY OFFICIALS:
1-7-1-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   The city clerk is an elected official of the city, elected for a four
(4) year term.
   B.   The city clerk shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the city council;
      2.   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the city council;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the city seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the seal of the city to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance or by the city council.
   C.   The pay period for the city clerk shall be every two (2) weeks with the
amount paid contingent upon the clerk's performance of the clerk's statutory
duties of the office.
   D.   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such duties
relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office operations of
the city as the city council shall prescribe. The position shall be filled by
the person serving as the city clerk or as otherwise provided by the city
council. The person shall be an employee of the city and shall serve at the
pleasure of the city council. The pay period for such position shall be the
same as for other municipal employees. Benefits, holidays and sick leave for
such position shall be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or
other policy of the city. The salary of the position shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions. (2015 Code § 2-301)
1-7-1-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   The city treasurer is an elected official of the city, elected for a
four (4) year term.
   B.   The city treasurer shall:
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been
paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the city in depositories as the
city council may designate; and
      3.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance.
   C.   The treasurer's books and accounts shall at all times be subject to
examination by the city council.
   D.   There is hereby created a position for the performance of such duties
relating to the maintenance of the books and records and office operations of
the city as the city council shall prescribe. The position shall be filled by
the person serving as the city treasurer or as otherwise provided by the city
council. The person shall be an employee of the city and shall serve at the
pleasure of the city council. The pay period for such position shall be the
same as for other municipal employees. Benefits, holidays and sick leave for
such position shall be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or
other policy of the city. The salary of the position shall not be subject to
constitutional restrictions. (2015 Code § 2-302)
1-7-1-3: DEPUTY CITY CLERK AND DEPUTY CITY TREASURER:
There may be created the offices of deputy city clerk and deputy city
treasurer. Persons appointed to fill the positions shall be appointed by the
mayor, with approval of city council. (2015 Code § 2-303)
1-7-1-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
The mayor, with approval of city council, may appoint a city attorney or may
secure the services of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when
needed. The city attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal advisor of
the city council and all officers, departments and agencies of the city
government in matters relating to their official powers and duties. He may
represent the city in proceedings in the courts and perform services incident
to his position which may be required by law or ordinance. (2015 Code § 2-304)
1-7-1-5: CITY HEALTH OFFICER:
The mayor, with approval of city council, may appoint a city health officer.
The county health officer or any qualified personnel of the state department of
health may perform the duties and functions of a city health officer if so
designated by the city. (2015 Code § 2-305)
1-7-2: OTHER OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   The mayor, with approval of city council, may appoint such other
officers and employees as he deems desirable and may determine their
compensation, and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
   B.   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
city council, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten (10) days,
demoted or removed may appeal in writing to the city council. The appeal must
be filed with the city clerk for transmittal to the council within ten (10)
days after receipt of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion or
removal. As soon as practicable thereafter, the council shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal, or give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in
writing its findings and recommendations and make its final decision in writing
regarding the appellant's layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. If the
council finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal was made in
error, it shall veto the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal and order the
reinstatement of the employee or officer. Any proceedings of the council shall
be subject to open meeting laws and applicable exceptions provided for
executive sessions. Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid
off, suspended without pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written
statement, hearings and procedures required in this subsection. (2015 Code § 2-
306)
1-7-3: BONDS:
The mayor, city clerk, city treasurer and any other officers and employees as
the city council may designate by ordinance or otherwise shall give bond for
the faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the council shall
prescribe. The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The city may require
the officer to secure the bond within ten (10) days after his election or
appointment. (2015 Code § 2-307)
1-7-4: OATH:
Officers of the city shall take the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by
the state constitution before they enter upon their duties. (2015 Code § 2-311)
1-7-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Elected Officials: The compensation of all elective city officers,
including the following, shall be fixed by ordinance: the mayor, each council
member, the city clerk, and the city treasurer. (2015 Code § 2-308)
   B.   Employees; Number And Classes Of Personnel:
      1.   The compensation of all other officers and employees excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the city council, and may be changed at any
time in the same manner.
      2.   Except as the law provides otherwise, the city council may determine
or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees. (2015 Code § 2-
309)
   C.   Salaries Of Certain Officers Not To Be Changed After Election Or
Appointment: In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any city officer
elected or appointed for a definite term be changed after his election or
appointment or during his term of office unless by operation of an ordinance
passed prior to such election or appointment, such being prohibited by the
constitution, article 23, section 10. This subsection shall not apply to
officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees. (2015 Code § 2-310)
1-7-6: CONTINUANCE IN OFFICE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY:
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue to
serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed and qualifies,
unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation, disqualification,
removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal manner. (2015 Code § 2-
312)
CHAPTER 8
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Social Security
1-8-2: Employee Retirement System
1-8-3: Firefighters Pension And Retirement Fund
1-8-1: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the city to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the city the benefits of the system of federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act and all
amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance
of this policy, the officers and employees of the city shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2015
Code § 2-401)
   B.   Agreement With State: The mayor is authorized and directed to execute
all necessary agreements and amendments with the state public welfare
commission to accomplish the provisions of subsection A of this section. (2015
Code § 2-402; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid to the
state or federal agency designated by the laws and regulations. (2015 Code § 2-
403)
   D.   Contributions: Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (2015 Code § 2-404)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city clerk shall keep such records and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (2015 Code § 2-405)
   F.   Exclusions: Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
social security benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
      1.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city; or
      2.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (2015 Code § 2-406)
1-8-2: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   System Established; Purpose: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the
laws of the state and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious
service on the part of city employees and thereby promote public efficiency,
there is hereby authorized, created, established, approved and adopted,
effective as of July 30, 1981, the funded pension plan designated "employee
retirement system of Oilton, Oklahoma" (hereinafter called "system"), as
amended from time to time, an executed counterpart of which is marked exhibit A
to the ordinance adopting and amending the system. (2015 Code § 2-601)
   B.   Board Of Trustees To Administer System: For the purpose of the
administration of the system, there is hereby established a board of trustees,
which shall be the members of the city council as now existing or as from time
to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The powers and duties of the
board of trustees shall be set forth in the system instrument marked exhibit A
as mentioned in subsection A of this section. (2015 Code § 2-602)
   C.   Fund: A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of
the person entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such
fund shall be paid to and received in trust for such purpose by the city
treasurer, who shall be the treasurer of the system. Such fund shall be pooled
for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of other
incorporated cities and towns in the state as a part of the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund, in accordance with a duly executed contract for such purpose,
which contract shall be executed by the city council as soon as feasible. The
city treasurer shall hold such contributions in the form received, and from
time to time pay and transfer the same to the Oklahoma municipal retirement
fund, as duly authorized and directed by the board of trustees. The fund shall
be nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual
estimate is made to the county excise board. The fund and system shall be
evaluated each year for actuarial soundness by a qualified actuarial firm.
(2015 Code § 2-603)
   D.   Appropriations: The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation and administration of the system and
to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to
appropriate annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee
contributions, to maintain its amended retirement system and the fund on a
sound actuarial basis in accordance with the respective biannual actuarial
valuation. (2015 Code § 2-604)
   E.   Execution:
      1.   The mayor and city clerk are each hereby authorized and directed to
execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) the
original system instrument, and all amendments thereto, and to do all other
acts and things necessary, advisable and proper to put the system and
amendments and related trust into full force and effect, and to make such
changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under sections 401(a)
and 501(a) of the internal revenue code of the United States. The counterpart
marked as exhibit A, which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously
with the passage of this chapter, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all
respects.
      2.   The city council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the city to negotiate a contract with other
incorporated cities and towns of the state to pool and combine the fund into
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
The city council shall manifest approval of such contract and the execution
thereof by the mayor and city clerk by a formal resolution. (2015 Code § 2-605)
   F.   Amendments: This section is amended by the following ordinances:
164, passed November 9, 2010.
193, passed August 9, 2016.
   (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 193, 8-9-2016)
1-8-3: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND:
   A.   State Regulations Adopted: The city hereby adopts the provisions of
state law governing the Oklahoma firefighters relief and pension system and
amendments thereto for the purpose of providing firefighters of the city with a
retirement program. (2015 Code § 2-501)
   B.   Fund Operated In Accordance With Law: The firefighters relief and
pension fund shall be operated in accordance with state law relating to the
fund, and pensions and other benefits shall be paid as provided by state law.
(2015 Code § 2-502)
   C.   Contributions To Fund:
      1.   The city treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each
paid member of the fire department the appropriate amounts of money as
established and required by state law as contribution to the firefighters
pension fund. However, if the members of the fire department, by a majority
vote of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the
amounts authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with
the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
fire department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
      2.   The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters pension and retirement board the amounts of money as established
and required by state law for each paid member of the fire department.
      3.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the city treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement
board the amounts of money as established and required by state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actual studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board.
      4.   All assets of the city firefighters pension and retirement fund
shall be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the state board. (2015 Code § 2-503)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose And Effect
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Jurisdiction
1-9-4: Municipal Judge
1-9-5: Change Of Venue Not Allowed
1-9-6: Chief Of Police
1-9-7: Clerk Of The Court
1-9-8: City Attorney
1-9-9: Rules Of The Court
1-9-10: Prosecutions Verified By Complaint; Style
1-9-11: Traffic Violations
1-9-12: Summons
1-9-13: Failure To Appear
1-9-14: Warrant Of Arrest
1-9-15: Bail; Temporary Bonds
1-9-16: Arraignment
1-9-17: Trials By Jury
1-9-18: Trials By The Court
1-9-19: Sentencing
1-9-19-1: Sentencing Juvenile Offenders
1-9-20: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
1-9-21: Fees, Fines And Costs
1-9-22: Penalty Assessments 
1-9-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city, as put into operation by resolution, duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-101 and
27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. (2015 Code § 6-101; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
CLERK: The clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city of Oilton.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city of Oilton.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The city of Oilton, Oklahoma.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (2015 Code §
6-102)
1-9-3: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law. (2015 Code § 6-103)
1-9-4: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications And Restrictions: There shall be one judge of the court.
A judge shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in Oklahoma, of the age
of twenty one (21) years or older, possessed of good moral character. A judge
who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts,
but shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or
arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the
proceedings therein. He must be a resident of this county or contiguous county
or maintain a law office therein. He may serve as judge of other municipal
courts, if such service may be accomplished consistently with his duties as
judge of this court, with the consent of the mayor and governing body. (2016
Code)
   B.   Appointment: Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be
submitted in writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly
scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take
effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The
governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of a
quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment
shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the
governing body unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed
appointment. (2015 Code § 6-108)
   C.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years
expiring on a date fixed by the city council in each odd numbered year. Each
judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor
is appointed and qualified. (2015 Code § 6-105)
   D.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed for each judge of the court
an alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the judge
in this section. His appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case
if the judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court:
      2.   Unable to act as judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (2015 Code § 6-106)
   E.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly
appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint
some person, possessing the qualifications required by this section for the
judge, who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (2015 Code § 6-107)
   F.   Compensation:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
      2.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the governing body, however, payments to an acting
or alternate judge shall not exceed the salary set for a judge in whose stead
he sits. (2015 Code § 6-109)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Removal For Cause: Judges shall be subject to removal from office by
the governing body for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of
this state for the removal of public officers.
      2.   Filing Of Petition: Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by
the filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         a.   The mayor; or
         b.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The governing body shall set a date for hearing the
matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to
be served personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
At the hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
         a.   Representation by counsel;
         b.   Present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him;
and
         c.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      4.   Procedures: So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the
Oklahoma administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings 1
shall govern removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be
entered only upon individual votes, by a majority of all members of the
governing body in favor of such removal. (2015 Code § 6-110)
   H.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   Cause Of Vacancy: A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if
the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
(2015 Code § 6-111)
      2.   Filling Vacancy: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
judge, the mayor, with the consent of the governing body, shall appoint a
successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as an original
appointment is made. (2015 Code § 6-111; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309 - 317, as amended.
1-9-5: CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed, but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (2015 Code § 6-112)
1-9-6: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the chief of police of this municipality, who shall be the principal officer of
the court. (2015 Code § 6-113)
1-9-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Designation; Duties: The clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be
the clerk of the court. The clerk shall:
      1.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, process and other papers.
      2.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
      3.   Enter all pleadings, process, and proceedings in the dockets of the
court.
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct.
      5.   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the court.
      6.   Pay to the treasurer of this municipality all monies so received by
him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed
by him for special purposes. All monies paid to the treasurer shall be placed
in the general fund of the municipality, or in such other funds as the
governing body may direct, and said monies shall be used in the operation of
the municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing
the fund in which it is placed. (2015 Code § 6-114)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to
the governing body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the
treasurer of this municipality and retained in the municipal archives. (2015
Code § 6-116; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-8: CITY ATTORNEY:
The attorney for this municipality, or his duly designated assistant, may be
the prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He may be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent this
municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (2015
Code § 6-115)
1-9-9: RULES OF THE COURT:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The judge may prescribe rules consistent with
the laws of the state and with the ordinances of this municipality for the
proper conduct of the business of the court. (2015 Code § 6-117)
   B.   Enforcement; Contempt: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments
made by the judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed
against process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this state. (2015 Code § 6-118)
1-9-10: PROSECUTIONS VERIFIED BY COMPLAINT; STYLE:
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled "The City of Oilton vs. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint,
and setting forth concisely the offense charged. (2015 Code § 6-119)
1-9-11: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Citations, Custody, Arrest:
      1.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, in lieu of arresting
such a person, he may release the person on personal recognizance in accordance
with subsection B of this section, or take his name, address, operator's
license number, and registered license number of the motor vehicle involved and
any other pertinent and necessary information and may issue him, in writing in
form prescribed by the mayor or his duly designated delegate, a traffic
citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to the charge
against him at a time not later than the date specified in the citation. The
officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged violator endorsed on
the citation to answer as specified, may then release the person from custody.
If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as prescribed in the
citation, complaint shall be filed and the case shall be prosecuted as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      2.   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
         a.   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in subsection A1 of this section pending his appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation;
         b.   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this section; or
         c.   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
shall either be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this section. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A1
of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
      3.   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsection
A1 or A2 of this section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The
operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A1 or A2
of this section. (2015 Code § 6-120)
   B.   Bail Bond Procedures:
      1.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
         a.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any party jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
         b.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
         c.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by the treating physician; and
         d.   The violation does not constitute:
            (1)   A felony;
            (2)   Negligent homicide;
            (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician;
            (4)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
            (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the driving privilege and driver's license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
            (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
            (7)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections B1d(1) through B1d(6) of this section; (2015 Code § 6-121; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   a. If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in subsection B1 of this section, then the arresting
officer shall:
            (1)   Designate the traffic charge;
            (2)   Record information from the arrested person's driver's
license on the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth,
personal description, type of driver's license, driver's license number,
issuing state, and expiration date;
            (3)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
(2015 Code § 6-121)
            (4)   Record the date and time on the citation on which, or before
which, the arrested person promises to contact, pay or appear at the court, as
applicable to the court; and
            (5)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to
appear as provided in the citation.
         b.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and driver's license
in this state, or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
      3.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driving
privilege and driver's license shall be required in state law, 22 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5. (2015 Code § 6-121; amd. 2016 Code)
      4.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided in this subsection, such plea shall be
accepted by the court, and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
      5.   a. If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection B4 of this section,
the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a
warrant for the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court
clerk, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation
was issued by the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of
public safety that:
            (1)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided in the citation;
            (2)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without
good cause shown;
            (3)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any
other arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
            (4)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law. (2015
Code § 6-121)
         b.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public
safety to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license
to operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant's home state
and request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver's
license in accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact.
Such notice and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the state
department of public safety. The court clerk shall not process the notification
and request provided in this subsection B5 if, with respect to such charges:
(2015 Code § 6-121; amd. 2016 Code)
            (1)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
            (2)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance
upon a signed written promise to appear as provided in this subsection B or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment; (2015 Code § 6-121)
            (3)   The violation relates to parking or standing; or
            (4)   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more
has elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
      6.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driving
privilege and driver's license suspension submitted to the state department of
public safety pursuant to the provisions of this subsection B. When the court
or court clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs,
settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise
closes the case, the court clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant,
if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or
at such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court
or court clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall, in all other cases, notify the state department of public
safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided, however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided in this subsection shall in no event create any
civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof,
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (2015 Code § 6-121; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-12: SUMMONS:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of any ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a certain day as specified after the summons is
served upon him, and including such other pertinent information as may be
necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as
provided by this chapter. (2015 Code § 6-122)
1-9-13: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person who has been cited or
summoned to the municipal court to fail to appear on his/her appointed court
date or fail to pay unless prior arrangements have been made through the city
attorney or the municipal court clerk. The penalty for failing to appear and/or
failing to pay shall be in addition to the penalty for the violation for which
a person was originally cited or summoned and shall be assessed by the
municipal judge in an amount up to the maximum fine permissible under state law
in a municipal court. (2016 Code)
1-9-14: WARRANT OF ARREST:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this
municipality, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the
attorney of this municipality or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant
of arrest, in substantially the following form:
The City of Oilton to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of Oilton, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith
to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name of
defendant) before me, at the municipal courtroom,
Witness my hand this          day of           ,       .
                                                                          
         Judge of the Municipal Court Oilton, Oklahoma
B. Police To Serve Warrant: It is the duty of the marshal, personally, or
through a duly constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or
through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as
promptly as possible. (2015 Code § 6-123)
1-9-15: BAIL; TEMPORARY BONDS:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by
ordinance for the offense charged. A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the
city council and amended from time to time by motion or resolution. (2015 Code
§ 6-124)
1-9-16: ARRAIGNMENT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge or the city attorney shall read the complaint to the defendant,
inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if
available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he pleads
guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may proceed to
judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If
the plea is not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, the court may
proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date. (2015 Code
§ 6-125)
1-9-17: TRIALS BY JURY:
A. Jury Trials; Waivers:
1. In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine of more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment, or by both fine and
imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless waived by the defendant. If trial
by jury is waived, trial shall be to the court. (2015 Code § 6-126; amd. 2016
Code)
2. At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or waives
trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the arraignment
and entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in the case.
3. An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed by the
defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is set; an
election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury. (2015 Code § 6-126)
B. Jurors And Jury Trial Procedures:
1. Whenever a calendar has been made for the trial of cases by jury, the judge
shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of the district court for this
judicial district to cause the names of a stated number of jurors deemed
sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar to be drawn from the jury
wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the state, and to be
certified by the clerk of the district court to the judge of the municipal
court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be certified and the
jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the calendar begins. If it is
anticipated that the completion of the calendar will require more than two (2)
weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the number required for each two
(2) week period, as provided by law for the drawing of jurors for the district
court. Additional drawing of other names also may be requested by the judge,
when necessary, in accordance with the law for such additional drawings in the
district court. If, in the future, provisions of the law respecting the drawing
of jury lists for the district court are changed, the judge shall take such
steps in requesting jury lists for the court as are necessary to comply with
state law.
2. Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the court shall cause a summons
substantially in the following form to be issued and served upon each person on
the list:
STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
         ) ss:
   COUNTY OF CREEK   )
TO,                GREETING: you hereby are summoned to appear in the Municipal
Court for the City of Oilton, Oklahoma, to be held at on the                day
of                , 20         , at the hour of          o'clock         .M.,
to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in such service until
discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this            day of              
      , 20        .
                                                                
         Clerk of the Municipal Court of the City
         of Oilton, Oklahoma
3. Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe by rule or direct by
order, either in person upon the juror by the marshal of the court or by any
member of the police force of this municipality, or by the clerk of the court,
through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in the
jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee, and therefore, that he was properly served therewith.
4. A jury in the court shall consist of six (6) jurors, good and lawful men or
women, citizens of the county of Creek, possessing the qualifications of jurors
in district court.
5. After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together and hear the proofs and
oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in public and in the
presence of the defendant.
6. A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five (5) jurors.
7. In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall determine all questions
of law, including questions as to the introduction of evidence, arising during
the trial. He also shall instruct the jury as to the law.
8. The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the jury has
arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the court. The
judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so entered.
9. The jury must not be discharged after the case is submitted thereto until a
verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges it sooner, in
which event, the court may proceed again to trial, and so on, until a verdict
is rendered. (2015 Code § 6-127)
1-9-18: TRIALS BY THE COURT:
A. Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown,
may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
B. Presence At Trial: The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
(2015 Code § 6-128)
C. Trial Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter,
or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated
by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective. (2015 Code § 6-128; amd. 2016 Code)
D. Judgment Of Court: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the
trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
E. Entry In Docket: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
F. Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (2015 Code §
6-128)
G. Fine; Enforcement By Imprisonment; Inability To Pay:
1. A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day or as set out in subsection G2 of this section for defendants
who are without means to make such payment.
2. If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the municipal
judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court minutes and
to be certified to the district court of Creek County where it shall be entered
upon the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor. (2015 Code § 6-128; amd. 2016 Code)
H. Compensation Of Witnesses:
1. Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than the police officers or
peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of attendance, plus
mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and
returning from the place of attendance if their residence is outside the limits
of the municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more
than one case for the same period of time or the same travel. A defendant
seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to
cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each witness to be
summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
a. The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
b. That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to provide the fees
and mileage allowed by law;
c. That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
d. That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper defense.
2. The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality. (2015 Code §
6-129)
1-9-19: SENTENCING:
A. The judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a sentence in accordance with
11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and 27-124.
B. A judge who is licensed to practice law in this state in imposing a judgment
and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, or suspend or
defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to authorize
probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence,
under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures relating to
suspension of the judgment or costs, or both, shall be as provided in 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the
defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the
verdict, judgment of guilty or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the record
and the charge dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a finding
of the court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the municipal
judge may enter a judgment of guilty. The judge may continue or delay imposing
a judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from
the date of sentence. At the expiration of such period of time, the judge may
allow the municipal attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a
deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. (2016 Code)
1-9-19-1: SENTENCING JUVENILE OFFENDERS:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, when the court is sentencing a
defendant as a juvenile, pursuant to the provisions of 10A Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-2-102, for violating any municipal ordinance, the following shall
apply:
A. Upon conviction or upon admission to a deferred sentence program, punishment
and conditions of probation imposed may include any one or all of the
following:
1. A fine not to exceed the statutory maximum of the municipal court;
2. Community service work, not to exceed ninety (90) hours, in lieu of or in
addition to a fine if the product of multiplying the number of hours of
community service work by the prevailing minimum wage, plus any fine imposed,
does not result in a number which exceeds the maximum fine authorized by law;
3. Restitution, counseling, or other community based services; and
4. Court costs.
B. If a child fails to complete community service ordered by the municipal
court, a parent or guardian of the child who knew or should have known that the
child failed to complete the community service may be fined an amount that is
equal to the number of community service hours that are uncompleted by the
child multiplied by the hourly minimum wage amount.
C. In addition, during any calendar year that any child: 1) fails to appear for
a court date on more than one occasion; 2) is convicted of two (2) or more
municipal offenses, which offenses occurred on different days; or 3) fails to
pay any fine or cost properly assessed by the municipal court, and after the
expiration of ninety (90) days, the court clerk shall mail notice of such
occurrence to the department of public safety, which department shall
thereafter suspend or deny driving privileges for such child for six (6)
months. This suspension may be modified as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 6-107.2.
D. Any fines and costs properly assessed against any child and which remain
unpaid after three (3) months may be assessed by the municipal judge against
the child's parent, parents, legal guardian or legal custodian and collected
and paid as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes article XXVII. Provided, however,
prior to such latter assessment, the court clerk shall give such child's
parent, parents, legal guardian or legal custodian notice by certified mail to
their place of residence or personal service of such action proposed to be
taken.
E. The city shall keep all municipal arrest records, prosecution records, court
records and court proceedings for cases involving prosecutions under this
section confidential and shall not open them for public inspection except by
order to the municipal court or in conformity with the statutes or regulations
adopted pursuant to 10 Oklahoma Statutes section 620.6 and 10A Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1-6-101 through 1-6-108.
F. If a municipal citation is written to a juvenile who meets the above
criteria, the municipal court hearing date shall be indicated on the citation
and notification of the citation(s) shall be mailed to the parents, guardian,
or responsible adult relative of the juvenile. If the juvenile is arrested
under circumstances where the citation and release procedure would not be
appropriate (e.g., intoxication), the city shall make reasonable offers to
locate the parent, guardian, or responsible adult to take custody of the
juvenile pursuant to 10A Oklahoma Statutes section 2-2-102.
G. All fines generated as a result of prosecution of juveniles under this
section shall be placed in one or more special accounts and used solely to
fund:
1. Local programs which address problems of juvenile crime, including, without
limitation, offender counseling, early intervention, community service and teen
court programs;
2. The costs of prosecution;
3. The costs of detention; and
4. Administrative costs related to local programs that address problems of
juvenile crime or related to the prosecution, detention, or punishment
authorized by statute.
H. All court costs collected from such juvenile offenders shall be deposited to
the general fund of the city and shall be utilized as deemed appropriate by the
city. (2016 Code)
1-9-20: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
A. All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the chief of police of
the municipality, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of
the municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the jail of
the municipality or county, in the discretion of the court, for the time
specified in the sentence. (2015 Code § 6-131; amd. 2016 Code)
B. If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof,
certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff
of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
C. All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may be
compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving one day of imprisonment
under his sentence.
D. The chief of police, subject to the direction of the governing body, shall
direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in charge
of the place where the work is to be performed, himself, or by some person
designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the chief
of police shall make provision therefor. (2015 Code § 6-131)
1-9-21: FEES, FINES AND COSTS:
A. If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax the
costs to the defendant, which shall be the maximum amount authorized by state
law, plus the fees and mileage of witnesses and jurors, but the total amount of
fine may not exceed the amount set forth in section
1-4-1 of this title and up to thirty (30) days in jail.
B. These funds shall be used specifically for the police department training
and by authorization of the police chief. (2016 Code)
1-9-22: PENALTY ASSESSMENTS:
A. Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten dollars
($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing
violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense,
shall be ordered by the court to pay as a separate penalty assessment, all fees
imposed by the statutes of the state of Oklahoma, as the same may exist or be
enacted at the time of conviction. Such penalty assessments shall be in
addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties
otherwise provided by law for such offense. The court shall provide for
separate bail for the penalty assessment. A defendant admitted to bail on an
undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the penalty assessment in the
undertaking.
B. Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the penalty
assessment and deposit it in an account created for that purpose. As an
administrative fee for handling funds collected as a penalty assessment, the
court is authorized to retain from such monies administrative or collection
fees as may be authorized by law and may also retain all interest accrued
thereon prior to the due date for deposits as provided in this subsection. The
remainder of such monies shall be forwarded as required by law.
C. As used in this section, "convicted" means any final adjudication of guilt,
whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or otherwise, and any
deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Conducted By County
1-10-1: CONDUCTED BY COUNTY:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-302, the city hereby declares that
it shall not be governed by the Oklahoma town meeting act as a means of
electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions. The
city shall hereby elect its officers and decide initiative and referendum
questions through elections conducted by the county election board pursuant to
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-101 et seq. (2016 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Membership; Appointment; Compensation; Council May Serve
As
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Removals
2-1-4: Vacancies
2-1-5: Annual Report
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; COUNCIL MAY SERVE
AS:
There is hereby created a board of directors for the government and control of
the public library to consist of not less than five (5) members, appointed by
the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. The directors shall
serve without compensation. The city council may serve as the library board in
lieu of appointing a board of directors. (2015 Code § 11-202; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
If a board is appointed, the directors shall hold office for a period of three
(3) years and shall be staggered. (2015 Code § 11-203; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-3: REMOVALS:
The mayor may, by and with the consent of the city council, remove the
directors for misconduct or neglect of duty. (2015 Code § 11-204)
2-1-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies on the board of directors occasioned by removal, resignation or
otherwise shall be reported to the city council and shall be filled in like
manner as the original appointment. (2015 Code § 11-205)
2-1-5: ANNUAL REPORT:
The directors shall make on or before July 31 in each year an annual report to
the city council, stating the following:
   A.   The condition of its trust on June 30 of that year;
   B.   The various sums of money received from the library fund and other
sources, and how such monies have been expended and for what purposes;
   C.   The number of books and periodicals on hand;
   D.   The number of books and periodicals added by purchase, gift or
otherwise during the year;
   E.   The number of lost or missing books and periodicals;
   F.   The number of persons making use of the library during the year;
   G.   The number of books loaned out; and
   H.   The general character and kind of such books with such other
statistics, information and suggestions as they may deem of general interest.
(2015 Code § 11-207; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 3
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Deposit Of Funds
3-1-1: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Depositories Designated: All banks and all savings and loan
associations in the county which are incorporated under federal or state law
are hereby designated as depositories for the funds of the city.
   B.   Treasurer Duties: The city treasurer shall deposit daily all public
funds received by him in such banks or savings and loan associations. (2015
Code § 7-101)
   C.   Securing Deposits: The deposits of the city shall be secured as
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes. (2015 Code § 7-102; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definition
3-2-2: Purchasing Officials
3-2-3: Purchasing Procedures
3-2-1: DEFINITION:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, means services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with the services under express or implied contract. Contractual services shall
include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone; telegraph;
utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and maintenance
of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges and other physical facilities of
the city; and other services performed for the city by persons not in the
employment of the city. (2015 Code § 7-103)
3-2-2: PURCHASING OFFICIALS:
All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the city government shall be made by
the city council or by other city personnel in accordance with purchase
authorizations issued by the city council. (2015 Code § 7-104)
3-2-3: PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Prior Approval By City Council Required; Exceptions:
      1.   Prior approval by the city council of contracts and purchase or
issue of purchase authorization for all supplies, materials and equipment of
the offices and departments and agencies of the city shall be required, except
as otherwise provided hereinafter.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, the term "purchasing officer"
shall include the mayor, his duly authorized representative, and department
heads of the various departments of the city and their duly authorized
representatives.
      3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A1 of this section, the
mayor or some other person or persons duly authorized thereby shall be
permitted to make purchases or contracts; provided, that no single purchase or
contract shall exceed the sum as established by resolution of the city council.
      4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A1 of this section, the
department head or some other person or persons duly authorized thereby shall
be permitted to make purchases or contracts; provided, that no single purchase
or contract shall exceed the sum as established by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   Restrictions:
      1.   Purchases under the provisions of subsections A1 and A2 of this
section shall be limited as follows:
         a.   Materials And Supplies: The purchasing officer shall not purchase
or contract for materials and supplies which are not required for immediate use
in the operation of the city, its departments of agencies, or expected to be
used or placed in service prior to the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting, or within the time thereafter as would be required for delivery of
such materials and supplies. Materials and supplies shall not be purchased for
placement into inventory without the prior approval of the city council.
Provided, however, that purchases of supplier minimum delivery quantities of
materials and supplies may be purchased prior to approval of the city council
in the event that a portion of such minimum quantity of such materials and
supplies are required for use prior to the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting or within the time thereafter as would be required for delivery
of such materials and supplies.
         b.   Tools, Equipment, And Fixtures: The purchasing officer shall not
purchase or contract for tools, equipment or fixtures to be used in the
operations of the city, its departments or agencies in excess of the sum
established by resolution of the city council for any single item without the
prior approval of the city council.
         c.   Repairs: The purchasing officer shall not contract for any single
repair of improvements, nor shall the purchasing officer purchase materials for
single repair to the buildings, structures, equipment, and vehicles of the
city, its departments, or agencies, which exceed the limits set forth in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section, without the prior approval of the city
council. For the purposes hereunder, single repair shall include any and all
repairs which are necessary to return the building, structure, equipment, or
vehicle to its intended use or serviceability. In the event that repairs
authorized by the purchasing officer hereunder which result in the discovery of
additional repairs necessary to return to use the item being repaired, which
would exceed the limits set forth herein, such repairs shall not be contracted
for without the prior approval of the city council.
         d.   Services: The purchasing officer shall not contract for any
single service which exceeds the limits set forth in subsections A1 and A2 of
this section, without the prior approval of the city council. In determining
whether or not the costs of the services exceed the described limits, services
of an identical, similar, or like kind shall be aggregated for the particular
project on which the services were rendered, even though performed by different
people or companies. Dissimilar services shall not be aggregated. Further, such
project shall apply to the entire project or job until the same is completed,
unless such project is broken into phases which have been approved by the city
council, at which point, the limits herein provided shall apply to such phase.
      2.   If the unencumbered balance of the particular appropriation or
budget account to which the purchase or contract applies is less than the
limits set forth in subsections A3 and A4 of this section, then the said limits
shall be reduced accordingly. The purchasing officer shall not purchase or
contract for materials, supplies, equipment and services in an amount which
exceeds the unencumbered balance of the budget or appropriation account to
which the expenditure applies.
   C.   Emergency Purchases: In the event of an immediate emergency in which it
is necessary in order to avoid loss of life, substantial damages to property,
or damage to the public peace or safety, the mayor, upon declaring such
emergency and after a reasonable effort to call an emergency meeting of the
city council, is authorized to make purchases or contracts for materials,
supplies, equipment or services for the city, departments and agencies of the
city which are necessary and reasonable to alleviate such emergency, and for
such purchases or contracts, the mayor may make, without prior approval of the
city council, single purchases or contracts in amounts not to exceed the sum of
twice the amount established by resolution for the mayor's normal limitation in
subsection A1 of this section. In the event that such an emergency is declared,
the mayor shall cause prompt notice thereof to be made to the members of the
city council and shall, at the next meeting of the city council, make a report
of the actions taken pursuant to the provisions hereof. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CITY TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Short Title
3-3A-2: Definitions
3-3A-3: Taxes Imposed; Rates; Purposes
3-3A-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-3A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-3A-7: Tax Due Date
3-3A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-3A-9: Collection By Vendors
3-3A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-3A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3A-12: Failure To File; Fraudulent Returns
3-3A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
3-3A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-3A-15: Records Confidential
3-3A-16: Amendments
3-3A-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF OILTON SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2015 Code § 7-201)
3-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1352 and 37 Oklahoma Statutes sections 576 and 593 are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
   B.   The following words and terms, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The definition in the state sales tax code is hereby augmented
to contain the additional following words:
The total retail sale price received for the sale, preparation or service of
mixed beverages, ice and non-alcoholic beverages to be mixed with alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation or
service occurs shall constitute the gross receipts from such transaction.
SALE: The definition in the state sales tax code is hereby augmented to contain
the additional following words:
Includes the sale, preparation or service of ice or nonalcoholic beverages that
are sold, prepared or served for the purpose of being mixed with alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation or
otherwise occurs.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city or the official agency of the state
duly designated according to law or contract and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this article. (2015 Code §§ 7-
202, 7-203; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3A-3: TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; PURPOSES:
The following city sales taxes, in the total amount of five percent (5%), shall
be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of
the people. Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the registered
voters of the city voting on same in elections conducted in the manner
prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-112.
   A.   A flat three percent (3%) sales tax.
   B.   A one percent (1%) sales tax designated for improvements to city
streets pursuant to ordinance 153 which tax is scheduled to expire December 31,
2016.
   C.   A one percent (1%) sales tax designated for construction and
improvement of facilities, transportation and equipment of the Oilton public
schools pursuant to ordinance 154 which tax is scheduled to expire December 31,
2016.
   D.   A two percent (2%) sales tax designated for operation, maintenance and
debt service of the city's sanitary sewer system pursuant to ordinance 167,
which ordinance shall be effective beginning January 1, 2017 through December
31, 2046, or as long as there is debt outstanding related to the construction
of improvements to the city's sanitary sewer system. (2016 Code)
3-3A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2015 Code § 7-205)
3-3A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code. (2015 Code § 7-204)
3-3A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds of
such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2016 Code)
3-3A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Oklahoma sales
tax code. (2015 Code § 7-215)
3-3A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax. (2015 Code § 7-216)
3-3A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in the city to collect from the
consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this article, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
   C.   A "vendor", as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this article shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 7-218)
3-3A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code, and
remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code for collection of
state sales taxes. (2015 Code § 7-219; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases
of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article. The
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article shall cause
such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the delinquency continues for a
period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount
allowed under this article. (2015 Code § 7-220)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
220. To accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of
said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article. (2015 Code § 7-221)
3-3A-12: FAILURE TO FILE; FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 7-223)
3-3A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this article shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2015 Code
§ 7-217)
3-3A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure and
under the same limitations of time as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2015 Code § 7-
222)
3-3A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of the state sales tax code, 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of
the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2015 Code § 7-224)
3-3A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinances, hereby
authorize the city council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law. (2015 Code § 7-225)
3-3A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances. (2015 Code § 7-226)
ARTICLE B.  USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Short Title
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Tax Imposed; Rate; Subjects Of Taxation
3-3B-4: Effective Date Of Tax
3-3B-5: Tax Is Additional
3-3B-6: Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-7: Purposes Of Revenues
3-3B-8: Subsisting State Permits
3-3B-9: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3B-10: Payment Of Tax; Bracket System
3-3B-11: Collection Of Tax
3-3B-12: Revocation Of Permit And License
3-3B-13: Remunerative Deductions
3-3B-14: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3B-15: Fraudulent Returns
3-3B-16: Enforcement Of Payment
3-3B-17: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-3B-18: Records Confidential
3-3B-19: Provisions Cumulative
3-3B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF OILTON USE TAX
CODE. (2016 Code)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
CITY: The city of Oilton, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency of
the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (2016 Code)
3-3B-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
There is hereby levied, for the storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased or brought into the city, a use tax of four percent
(4%) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every
person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The tax levied herein shall be
paid at the time of importation or storage of the property within the city and
shall be assessed only on property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided,
however, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against tangible
personal property intended solely for use outside the city but which is stored
in the city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily retained
in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the tax
authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, however, that the amount
deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes
imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(2016 Code)
3-3B-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax established in this article shall become effective on and after October
1, 2001. (2016 Code)
3-3B-5: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The use tax levied pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is in addition to
any and all other use taxes levied or assessed by the city or any other taxing
authority. (2016 Code)
3-3B-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
Exemptions from the tax imposed pursuant to this article shall be allowed
pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2016 Code)
3-3B-7: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the city council for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized by the
ordinances of the city and the state of Oklahoma. (2016 Code)
3-3B-8: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (2016 Code)
3-3B-9: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(2016 Code)
3-3B-10: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKET SYSTEM:
   A.   The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in
the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use
tax code of the state of Oklahoma.
   B.   The bracket system guidelines established by the Oklahoma tax
commission for the collection of sales taxes, including any amendment of same,
are hereby adopted for convenience in collecting both the state of Oklahoma use
tax and the city of Oilton use tax. The use of the bracket system guidelines
does not relieve the retailer or vendor from the duty and liability to remit to
the tax collector an amount equal to the applicable percentage of the purchase
price of such property as required by state law and this article. (2016 Code)
3-3B-11: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
outside the state of Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property
from a place of business outside this state for use in the city shall, at the
time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax
commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the city and the
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in the city.
   B.   1. The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the city and by the out of state place of
business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and outside Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property at such out
of state place of business for use in the city.
      2.   Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes, by the tax commission, in such manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible
personal property sold to his knowledge for use within the city.
      3.   Such authority and permit may be canceled when, at any time, the tax
commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in the city. Provided, however, that in all
instances where sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within
the city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's vehicle,
whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions
shall continue to be subject to applicable city sales tax at the point of
delivery, and the tax shall be collected and reported under the taxpayer's
sales tax permit number accordingly. (2016 Code)
3-3B-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT AND LICENSE:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and outside this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article, the
Oklahoma use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the tax commission,
the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing, as provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to
such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and hearing provided
by state law, cancel such corporation's license to do business in this state
and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules
or regulations of the tax commission. (2016 Code)
3-3B-13: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the Oklahoma use tax code for the collection of state use
taxes. (2016 Code)
3-3B-14: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted
and made a part of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in
the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in
cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article;
provided, however, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to
make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
such delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or
vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article.
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the city use tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for such waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220; and to accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2016 Code)
3-3B-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00), excluding costs, and/or by imprisonment in the city jail for a
period of no more than thirty (30) days. (2016 Code)
3-3B-16: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as the claims of unsecured creditors and
may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2016 Code)
3-3B-17: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227; and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(2016 Code)
3-3B-18: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and declared
and, to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state uniform tax procedure and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted
by reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of
the city use tax as if herein set forth in full. (2016 Code)
3-3B-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Fee Imposed
3-4-2: Due Date; Disposition Of Funds
3-4-3: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees And Taxes
3-4-1: FEE IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the city. (2015 Code § 7-301; amd. 2016
Code)
3-4-2: DUE DATE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The annual inspection fee and charge shall be due and payable to the city on or
before June 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and expended
from the general revenue fund of the city. (2015 Code § 7-301)
3-4-3: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES AND TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge imposed hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the city. (2015 Code § 7-302; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Fee Required
4-1-2: State Sales Tax Permit Required
4-1-3: Payment Of License Fee; Issuance Of License; Expiration
4-1-4: Separate Licenses Required
4-1-5: Duplicate Licenses
4-1-6: Nontransferability Of License
4-1-7: Display Of License
4-1-8: Additional Conditions For Peddlers And Solicitors
4-1-9: Revocation Of License
4-1-10: Violation; Penalties
4-1-1: LICENSE FEE REQUIRED:
A license fee is hereby imposed on every person engaging in, exercising, or
pursuing any of the businesses, professions, trades, occupations, or privileges
covered by this title. Said fee shall be as set by the city council by
ordinance, motion or resolution. (2015 Code § 9-101; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-2: STATE SALES TAX PERMIT REQUIRED:
In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm or
corporation regulated pursuant to this chapter is required to possess a valid
and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation is a
vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the sales tax code of the
city and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant to the
city clerk prior to issuance of the city license. (2015 Code § 9-101)
4-1-3: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license fee
is imposed by section
4-1-1 of this chapter or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license fee and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
Such license fee shall be credited to the general fund of the city. Upon making
proper application to the city clerk, the payment of the license fee and
fulfillment of any other conditions which may be prescribed by law or
ordinance, the city clerk shall issue a license therefor.
   B.   Annual licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year; however, the city
council, by resolution or motion, may provide for quarterly payments. When an
annual license is issued after July 1 for the remainder of the year to a person
just beginning to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession, trade,
occupation, or privilege, the fee collected shall be a fractional part of the
annual fee equal to the fraction of the year remaining, with a minimum as set
by the city council. (2015 Code § 9-102; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-4: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the city, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall pay
the fee and secure a separate license for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege. Businesses housed or
located on separate premises shall be considered as separate businesses for the
purpose of imposing the fee. (2015 Code § 9-103; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSES:
Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful
act or connivance by the holder, the city clerk, on application, shall issue a
duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is issued, the
holder shall make and file with the city clerk an affidavit that the license
has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he has
made diligent search for it and has been unable to find it. The fee for every
duplicate license issued, payable to the city clerk, shall be set by the city
council. (2015 Code § 9-107)
4-1-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the city.
(2015 Code § 9-106)
4-1-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he has no
particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of
displaying such licenses provided herein, when licenses are required for coin
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to display the license as required in this section. (2015 Code § 9-
104)
4-1-8: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS:
Before issuing a license to a peddler or solicitor, the city clerk may require
of the applicant any reasonable information which he deems desirable to protect
the public interest and require compliance with chapter 4 of this title. (2015
Code § 9-101; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the city to any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue
any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege may be revoked by the
city council after adequate opportunity for a hearing for either of the
following reasons:
   A.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he has
created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or local
ordinance; or
   B.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances. (2015 Code § 9-
105)
4-1-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or occupation, or
exercises any privilege for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as hereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license granted. (2015 Code § 9-111)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOL
ARTICLE A.  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Definitions
4-2A-2: Occupational Tax
4-2A-3: Certificates
4-2A-4: Retail Package Stores
4-2A-5: Days And Hours Of Sales
4-2A-6: Additional Prohibitions
4-2A-7: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
4-2A-8: Violation; Penalty
4-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words, phrases, and terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings
prescribed by and shall be construed in conformity with the definitions of the
same set forth in the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-103, with the same force and effect as if the definitions
were set forth in full in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning or construction. (Ord. 203, 8-14-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-2: OCCUPATIONAL TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   An annual Occupational Tax is imposed on persons engaging in the
following businesses or occupations within the City in the amounts respectively
indicated:
a. Brewer                  $1,250.00
b. Distiller               3,125.00
c. Winemaker               625.00
d. Oklahoma winemaker      75.00
e. Rectifier               3,125.00
f. Wholesaler              3,500.00
g. Class B wholesaler      625.00
h. Retail package store    300.00
i. Mixed beverage sales:
    Initial                1,000.00
    Renewal                900.00
j. Caterer:
    Initial                1,000.00
    Renewal                900.00
k. Special events, per day 50.00
 
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A1 of this section, the
Occupational Tax for a mixed beverage or bottle club license for those service
organizations or fraternal beneficiary societies which are exempt under section
501(c)(19), (8) or (10) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per year.
      3.   If a brewer or a Class B wholesaler also holds a license from the
State to manufacture or wholesale any low point beer, then the Occupation Tax
for such brewer or Class B wholesaler shall be reduced by seventy five percent
(75%).
   B.   Payment Of Tax:
      1.   Payment In Advance; Proration Of Tax: Any State licensee originally
entering upon any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the
Office of the City Clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such
occupation. The licensee shall provide a copy of his current State license
before payment of an Occupational Tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the
licensee shall pay the tax annually on or before July 1. The Occupational Tax
subject to this article shall be prorated on a monthly basis for the year in
which a licensee begins operation.
      2.   Issuance Of Receipt: Upon payment of the Occupational Tax, the City
Clerk shall issue a receipt to the State licensee which the licensee shall post
in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries on his occupation.
   C.   Failure To Pay Tax: Any person who engages in any of the occupations
licensed by this article without paying the Occupational Tax imposed therefor
in advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the City and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   Annual Report To State: The City Clerk shall make an annual report to
the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission, covering the fiscal
year, showing the number of licensees subject to Occupational Tax and the
amount of money collected from the taxes. (Ord. 203, 8-14-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
4-2A-3: CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   Application For Certificate: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the City required by 37
Oklahoma Statutes shall apply at the Office of the City Clerk by: (2015 Code §
3-105; amd. 2016 Code)
         a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         b.   Paying a verification and certification fee in such amount as set
by the City Council at the time of filing. (2015 Code § 3-105)
      2.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made to determine
whether the premises proposed for licensed operation complies with the
provisions of any Health, Fire, Building and other Safety Codes applicable
thereto. The City Clerk shall act on all such applications within twenty (20)
days of receipt thereof. (2015 Code § 3-105; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Compliance To ABLE Commission; Signature
Required: Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety, and Health Codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission, and said certificate
shall be signed by the Mayor or by the City Clerk.
   C.   Conditional Certificate: A conditional certificate may be granted if
construction, modification or alteration of the premises proposed for a
licensed operation is not completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate
that the proposed premises will comply with City Fire, Safety and Health Codes.
A certificate in accordance with subsection B of this section shall be issued
within ten (10) days after all final inspections are complete. (2015 Code § 3-
106; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2A-4: RETAIL PACKAGE STORES:
   A.   Location Restrictions: The location of a retail package store is
specifically prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of any church property
primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious activities, or
a public school. However, if any such church or school shall be established
within three hundred feet (300') of any licensed retail premises after such
premises has been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such
license so long as it has been in continuous force and effect. The distance
indicated in this subsection shall be measured from the nearest property
entrance door of the premises of such package store along the street right-of-
way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians
between such points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property
situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
church or school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block
where a school or church is located. (2015 Code § 3-107; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Conditions Of Sales:
      1.   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages out of any
retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
         a.   In retail containers;
         b.   At ordinary room temperature;
         c.   In the original package; and
         d.   For consumption off the premises.
      2.   No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed or any retail container of such beverage to be opened
on the premises of such a store. (2015 Code § 3-108)
4-2A-5: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Package Stores: No package store licensee shall sell or keep package
store premises open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any
hour other than between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday; provided, that no such sales shall be
made or business be allowed to remain open for the purpose of making such sales
on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or
Christmas Day. Package store licensees shall be permitted to sell, or keep
package store premises open for the purpose of selling alcoholic beverages on
the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election, whether on
a national, state, county or city election; provided, that the election day
does not occur on any day on which such sales are otherwise prohibited by law.
   B.   Wholesale Dealers: No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no
officer, agent or employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any
retail alcoholic beverage store within the city any amount of spirits or wines
on Saturday, Sunday, New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day. (2015 Code § 3-113; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2A-6: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Consumption: No person shall drink or consume in any manner any
alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage package store
nor in any other public place. Neither shall a person open or break the seal of
any original package or retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the
premises of any such retail beverage store. (2015 Code § 3-109)
   B.   Sales:
      1.   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic
beverages at any place within the city limits to any person who is a minor.
Neither shall any minor misrepresent his age verbally or in writing, or present
false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing any other
person to sell him alcoholic beverages.
      2.   No person shall sell, deliver or knowingly furnish alcoholic
beverage or beverages within the city to an intoxicated person or to any person
who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient. (2015 Code § 3-110)
   C.   Minors:
      1.   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture, distribution
or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the city, and no
person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any minor at
any place within the city in the selling, manufacture, distribution or other
handling of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   No minor shall be permitted to remain within or to loiter about the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store.
      3.   Violation of this subsection C shall subject the owner or
proprietor, as well as the underage person, to prosecution. (2015 Code § 3-112)
   D.   Intoxicated Person On Certain Premises: No person operating a cafe,
restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within the city, and no employee
engaged in connection with the operation of such a cafe, restaurant, club or
place of recreation shall permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in the
place of business. (2015 Code § 3-114)
4-2A-7: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person shall knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a public highway,
street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in the original container which
shall not have been opened and the seal upon which shall not have been broken
and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed, unless the
opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include
the spare tire compartment in a vehicle commonly known as a station wagon and
panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion. (2015 Code § 3-111;
amd. 2016 Code)
4-2A-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 3-115)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: License Fees For Amusement Devices
4-3-2: Pool And Billiard Halls
4-3-3: Violation; Penalties
4-3-1: LICENSE FEES FOR AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   The license fees imposed on all amusement machines or devices operated
for pay within the city shall be in such sums as set by the city council for:
(2015 Code § 9-108; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   Music boxes;
      2.   Marble machines;
      3.   Penny operated amusement machines or devices;
      4.   Coin operated radios in hotels and rooming and boarding houses;
      5.   Shuffleboards; and
      6.   All other amusement machines or devices. (2015 Code § 9-108)
   B.   It is the duty of the owner of any such machines or devices listed in
this section to file a complete list of all the places and the owners thereof
wherein such machines or devices are placed and pay in advance the fee as set
by the city council applying to the machine or device before allowing the same
to be operated within the city. (2015 Code § 9-108; amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-2: POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful and an offense for any person or
persons to maintain or operate a public pool or billiard hall or any public
pool or billiard table within the corporate limits of the city without first
securing a license to be issued by the city pursuant to any regulations of the
city council.
   B.   License Fee: A fee as set by the city council for each pool or billiard
table kept in a place where such games are publicly played, whether in constant
use or not, per year, shall be charged for the issuing of such license. (2015
Code § 9-109)
   C.   License And Fee Are Additional: The license and fee required by this
section is in addition to any other fees or licenses required by other
divisions of government. (2015 Code § 9-109; amd. 2016 Code)
4-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who engages in any of the businesses referenced in this chapter
without a valid license as hereby required or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license granted. (2015 Code § 9-111)
CHAPTER 4
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: License And Compliance Required; Exceptions
4-4-3: Application For License
4-4-4: License Fee
4-4-5: Bond Requirements
4-4-6: Service Of Process
4-4-7: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License; Contents
4-4-8: Separate Licenses Required
4-4-9: Expiration Of License
4-4-10: Transfer Of License
4-4-11: Posting License
4-4-12: Weekly Reports To City Clerk
4-4-13: City Records And Reports
4-4-14: Loud Noises And Sound Amplification Prohibited
4-4-15: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
4-4-16: Revocation Of License
4-4-17: Appeals
4-4-18: Enforcement Of Provisions
4-4-19: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor" is defined as any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the city. (2015 Code § 9-203)
4-4-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful for a "transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant
vendor", as defined in section
4-4-1 of this chapter, to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Religious organizations and charitable organizations which can prove their
status pursuant to the internal revenue code shall be exempt from all the
provisions of this chapter except sections
4-4-15 and
4-4-19 of this chapter. (2015 Code § 9-202)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for a license under this chapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written, sworn application, signed by the applicant,
if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the city clerk showing:
   A.   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business during the time that is proposed that it
will be carried on in the city;
   B.   The local address or addresses of such person or persons while engaged
in such business;
   C.   The permanent address or addresses of such person or persons;
   D.   The capacity in which such person or persons will act (that is, whether
as proprietor, agent or otherwise);
   E.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose
account the business will be carried on, if any;
   F.   If a corporation, under the laws of what state the same is
incorporated;
   G.   The fingerprints of the persons conducting the applicant's business or,
in lieu thereof, at least three (3) letters of recommendation from reliable
persons in the county, certifying as to the applicant's good character and
business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes, to the
satisfaction of the mayor, the good character and business responsibility of
such person or persons;
   H.   The place or places in the city where the applicant's business is
proposed to be carried on, and the length of time during which it is proposed
that the business shall be conducted;
   I.   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the
date of the application, conducted a transient business, stating the nature
thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office
in which such business was conducted;
   J.   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the
invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise; whether the
same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in
possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and by
taking orders for future delivery; where the goods or property proposed to be
sold is manufactured or produced and where such goods or products are located
at the time the application is filed;
   K.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers and, if required by the
city clerk, copies of all the advertising, whether by handbills, circulars,
newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as
exhibits thereto;
   L.   Whether or not the person or persons conducting the applicant's
business have been convicted of a felony, the nature of such offense and the
punishment assessed therefor;
   M.   Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative;
   N.   A copy of the current and valid state sales tax permit in the name of
the applicant; and
   O.   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may
deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the
public good. (2015 Code § 9-204)
4-4-4: LICENSE FEE:
Licensees under this chapter shall pay a fee as set by the city council. (2015
Code § 9-209)
4-4-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any license as provided by this chapter shall be issued for engaging in
a transient or itinerant business in the city, a bond is required, running to
the city, in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), executed by the
applicant as principal and two (2) sureties, upon which service of process may
be made in the state of Oklahoma, conditioned that the applicant shall comply
fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city and the statutes
of the state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any
violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons
for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any
person transacting such business with such applicant, whether the
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whatsoever printed or circulated
with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the
aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to
form, and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon. (2015 Code § 9-206;
amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-6: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business
as an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, in the city, the applicant shall
file with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city
clerk, or the person performing the duties of such position, his true and
lawful agent, with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of
process for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected
with or arising out of the business transacted under the license and the bond
given as required by section
4-4-5 of this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or
for any breach thereof, which the instrument shall also contain recitals to the
effect that the applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of
any notice or process may be made upon the agent and, when so made, shall be
taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person or
persons applying for the license under this chapter, according to the law of
this or any other state, and waiving all claim, right or error by reason of
such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service
of process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk shall send
to the licensee, at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of the
process. (2015 Code § 9-207; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
   A.   Upon receipt of the application, the city clerk shall cause such
investigation of such person's or persons' business responsibility or moral
character to be made as he deems necessary to the protection of the public
good. If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall
be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the city clerk shall so certify in
writing, and a license shall be issued thereby.
   B.   The license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same
is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount
of the license fee paid, the expiration date of the license, the place where
the business may be carried on under the license, and the name or names of the
person or persons authorized to carry on the same. (2015 Code § 9-205)
4-4-8: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
In the event that such person or persons applying for the license shall desire
to do business in more than one place within the city, separate licenses may be
issued for each place of business and shall be posted conspicuously in each
place of business. (2015 Code § 9-208)
4-4-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire ninety
(90) days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed
therein. (2015 Code § 9-216)
4-4-10: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license shall be transferred without written consent from the mayor as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the city clerk
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer. (2015
Code § 9-210)
4-4-11: POSTING LICENSE:
The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in the
place of business named therein. (2015 Code § 9-208)
4-4-12: WEEKLY REPORTS TO CITY CLERK:
Every person conducting a business licensed under this chapter shall, on the
first business day of each week and upon discontinuance of business in the
city, present to the city clerk, at his office, a verified statement showing
the total sales made during the preceding week. The city clerk and any other
officer designated by him shall have the power and authority to enter any
store, building, or any other place in which such temporary business may be
conducted at any time during business hours for ascertaining the amount of
sales made and shall at all times have access to the books of such business.
(2015 Code § 9-209)
4-4-13: CITY RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The city clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of the licensee,
together with a license number, with the chief of police. The chief of police
shall report to the city clerk any complaints against any person licensed under
the provisions of this chapter and any conviction for violation of this
chapter. The city clerk shall keep a record of all such licenses and of such
complaints and violations. (2015 Code § 9-213; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-14: LOUD NOISES AND SOUND AMPLIFICATION PROHIBITED:
No licensee under this chapter, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any
outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or buzzer or any other sound device including
any loudspeaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable
of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or other
public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell. (2015 Code § 9-211)
4-4-15: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise,
not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners or
occupant or occupants of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or for the purpose of
disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor. Each uninvited
visitation of private residences in the city for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise or for the purpose of
disposing of or hawking the same shall be deemed a separate offense. (2015 Code
§ 9-201)
4-4-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation: The licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
may be revoked by the mayor, after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes: (2015 Code § 9-214; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall
be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint
and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, to the licensee, at his last known address, at least five (5) days
prior to the date set for the hearing. (2015 Code § 9-214)
4-4-17: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the denial
of application for license as provided in section
4-4-7 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license as
provided in section
4-4-16 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the city council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city council, within fourteen
(14) days after notice of the decision by the city clerk has been mailed to
such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds
for the appeal. The city council shall set the time and place for a hearing on
such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the
same manner as provided in section
4-4-16 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
city council on such appeal shall be final. (2015 Code § 9-215)
4-4-18: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It is the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all places of
business and persons in their respective territories subject to the provisions
of this chapter to determine if there is compliance with this chapter and to
enforce the provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating
the same. (2015 Code § 9-212)
4-4-19: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 9-217)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK AND SALVAGE DEALERS
SECTION:
4-5-1: License Required
4-5-2: License Fee
4-5-3: Register Kept
4-5-4: Daily Report To Police
4-5-5: Time Required For Retention Of Purchases
4-5-6: Prohibited Hours
4-5-7: Violation; Penalties
4-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation, either as principal or agent, shall carry on or
engage in the business as a junk dealer, salvage dealer, automobile salvage
dealer, salvage shop or salvage yard in the corporate limits of the city
without first obtaining a license therefor. (2015 Code § 9-110; amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-2: LICENSE FEE:
The charge for the license fee shall be as set by the city council, payable in
advance on or before July 15 of each fiscal year. (2015 Code § 9-110)
4-5-3: REGISTER KEPT:
Every junk dealer, salvage dealer, automobile salvage dealer, salvage shop or
salvage yard so operating shall keep at the place of business a register in
which the operator or manager of the business shall enter in writing a brief
description of each and every article purchased, together with the time of
purchase and the name and address of the person or persons from whom the
property is purchased, which register shall be kept clean and legible. Each
entry shall be made on the day of the receipt or purchase of the article, and
every entry shall be made in ink and shall not, in any manner, be obliterated
or erased. The register shall at all times be subject to inspection by the
chief of police or other person authorized by the chief. (2015 Code § 9-110;
amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-4: DAILY REPORT TO POLICE:
It is the duty of every junk dealer, salvage dealer, automobile salvage dealer,
salvage shop or salvage yard to file with the chief of police each day, not
later than six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M., a list of all junk or salvage
purchased on the previous day, together with a description of same and the name
and address of the person from whom purchased. (2015 Code § 9-110; amd. 2016
Code)
4-5-5: TIME REQUIRED FOR RETENTION OF PURCHASES:
The material purchased shall be retained by the operator or manager of the
business and not sold or disposed of for a period of three (3) days from date
of purchase. (2015 Code § 9-110)
4-5-6: PROHIBITED HOURS:
No junk dealer, salvage dealer, automobile salvage dealer, salvage shop or
salvage yard shall purchase or receive from any person any article between the
hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the
following day. (2015 Code § 9-110; amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who engages in any of the businesses mentioned in section
4-5-1 of this chapter without a valid license or who shall violate any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license granted. (2015 Code § 9-111)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL SALES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definition
4-6-2: Interval Between Sales
4-6-3: Duration Of Sale
4-6-4: Signs
4-6-5: Display Area
4-6-6: Exemptions From Provisions
4-6-7: Penalties
4-6-1: DEFINITION:
Except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the term
"residential sale", as used in this chapter, means any sale of what is held out
to be or is commonly known as a garage, porch, yard, room, back yard, patio or
moving sale or other type of general sale conducted from or on any premises
where an established business is not located and where goods or articles of any
type are held out for sale to the public. This definition shall not include a
situation where specific items are held out for sale and all advertisements of
such sale specifically names the items to be sold. (2016 Code)
4-6-2: INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES:
No person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner or allow
a residential sale to be held or conducted on premises under his control or
ownership more than one time in any two (2) month period. (2016 Code)
4-6-3: DURATION OF SALE:
No residential sale shall be longer than four (4) days in duration without
prior approval of the city council. (2016 Code)
4-6-4: SIGNS:
   A.   Signs may only be installed twenty four (24) hours prior to sale date
and shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the end of the sale.
   B.   No sign shall be posted on any curb, sidewalk, utility post, pole,
hydrant, bridge, tree, fence, or other surface located on public property, or
any public right of way, and shall not in any way obstruct traffic or the
vision of drivers on city streets. (2016 Code)
4-6-5: DISPLAY AREA:
The sale area of any residential sale shall be confined to the premises where
the sale is located and shall not create a nuisance, disturbance or traffic
hazard. (2016 Code)
4-6-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   A.   Persons acting pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions.
   C.   Charitable organizations or persons, when all gross sales from the sale
are used directly for charitable purposes, and the goods or articles are not
sold on a consignment basis. (2016 Code)
4-6-7: PENALTIES:
Any person(s) violating this chapter, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) fine, plus the payment of municipal court
costs. (2016 Code)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Powers Of City
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Certain Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-4: Nuisances Unlawful
5-1-5: Persons Liable
5-1-6: Lapse Of Time; Effect
5-1-7: Remedial Action
5-1-8: Abatement Of Nuisances Generally
5-1-9: Abatement By Suit In District Court
5-1-10: Abatement Of Health Nuisances
5-1-11: Procedures Cumulative
5-1-1: POWERS OF CITY:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
city has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the
owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (2015 Code §
8-306)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or any thing or
condition which either:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting agricultural
activities.
PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" herein.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects at the same time an entire community
or neighborhood, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon
the individuals may be unequal. (2015 Code § 8-301; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-3: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made; (2015 Code § 8-307)
      2.   Liquor Violations: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
alcoholic beverages or low point beer in violation of state law or city
ordinances; or keeping a place where alcoholic beverages or low point beer is
sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation of state law or city
ordinances; (2015 Code § 8-307; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      5.   Disorderly Houses:
         a.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
         b.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of State law
or City ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      6.   Public Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in violation
of City ordinances; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held; (2015
Code § 8-307)
      7.   Noisy Conditions: The continued making of loud or unusual noises
which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal
which makes such noises;
      8.   Interference With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
wireless reception of others;
      9.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
      10.   Water Flowing, Snow And Ice Falling Upon Streets: Permitting water
or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      11.   Stagnant Water Bodies: All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which insects breed or are likely to breed, or which are
so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety;
      12.   Conditions Attracting Pests: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, or
accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be,
breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease causing germs, and
the premises on which such exist;
      13.   Dangerous Structures: Any building or structure which is dangerous
to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      14.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      15.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Any fire or explosive hazard which
endangers the public safety;
      16.   Dangerous Businesses: Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare;
      17.   Vehicles And Trailers Without Plates: Any motor vehicle (whether in
operating condition or not) or any trailer without a current vehicle plate as
required by law for vehicles used on the public highways, when stored or kept
in a residence district; or
      18.   Animal Premises: Any stable or other place where animals are kept
that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the City by reason of
any noise or noises made by the animal therein or by reason of lack of
sanitation. (2015 Code § 8-307; amd. 2016 Code)
      19.   Strychnine:
         a.   General Provisions: The purpose and intent of this subsection A19
is to restrict the use of strychnine within the corporate limits of the City of
Oilton. The restricting of the use of strychnine poisoning is in the interest
of the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents.
         b.   Definitions:
    STRYCHNINE: An alkaloid from Strychnosnux-vomica; colorless crystals of
intensely bitter taste, nearly insoluble in water. It stimulates all parts of
the CNS, and was used as a stomachic, an antidote for depressant poisons, and
in the treatment of myocarditis. Strychnine blocks the inhibitory
neurotransmitter glycine, and thus can cause convulsions. The formerly used
salts of strychnine are strychnine hydrochloride, strychnine phosphate, and
strychnine sulfate. It is a potent chemical capable of producing acute or
chronic poisoning of humans or animals. (Farlex Partner Medical Dictionary ©
Farlex 2012) (Ord. 198, 3-14-2017)
   B.   The enumeration of certain public nuisances in subsection A of this
section shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances
defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more specific
terms. (2015 Code § 8-307)
5-1-4: NUISANCES UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person including, but not limited to, any owner, lessee,
or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the City or to permit a
nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the City. (2015 Code §
8-310)
5-1-5: PERSONS LIABLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (2015 Code § 8-
302)
5-1-6: LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (2015 Code § 8-303)
5-1-7: REMEDIAL ACTION:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
12; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance. (2015 Code § 8-
304)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 14 and 15; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance. (2015 Code § 8-
305)
5-1-8: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   Summary Abatement: Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a
grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
one (1) or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that
circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the mayor or
other appropriate officer or agency of the City government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend
the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
(2015 Code § 8-308)
   B.   Statement Of Nuisance; Recommended Abatement: The chief of the fire
department, the chief of police, the city attorney, the building official or
any other officer subordinate to the mayor may submit, through or with the
consent of the mayor, to the city council a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated. The mayor himself, the health officer and any
member of the city council or any resident or residents of the city may submit
such a statement and request or recommend that it be abated. (2015 Code § 8-
308; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Determination Of Nuisance Existence; Notice: The city council shall
determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the
purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the city council shall have power
to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before
proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the city council shall give
notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property
concerned and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and
opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and other
persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a police
officer if their names and addresses are known; but if the names or addresses
are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person
or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the
necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city.
   D.   Abatement By Owner Or City: If the city council finds that a nuisance
does in fact exist, it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for
or causing the nuisance to abate said nuisance within a specified time if the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or
if the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not
abate said nuisance within the specified time, the city council shall direct
the mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is
practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The city clerk
shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner or
other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such costs
shall constitute a debt to the city collectible as other debts to the city may
be collected. (2015 Code § 8-308)
5-1-9: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county, as provided in 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17. (2015 Code § 8-309; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-10: ABATEMENT OF HEALTH NUISANCES:
   A.   Order To Abate: Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at
his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. Such order shall be in writing
and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or
authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a police officer, or a
copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner,
occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises is unoccupied
and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the
state, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by
publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation
in the city. (2015 Code § 8-311; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs: If there is not compliance with the order,
the health officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and
the cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and the cost of removing
or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other city utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of water from the city water
system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part of
such utility bill to which it is added and shall become due and payable and
subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city
utility service, such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
(2015 Code § 8-311)
5-1-11: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (2015 Code § 8-312)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS, TRASH AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Unlawful
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Nuisance Declared
5-2-4: Receipt Of Report, Hearing And Notice
5-2-5: Abatement By City
5-2-6: Collection Of City Costs
5-2-1: UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the city to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds. (Ord.
189, 5-10-2016)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
MAYOR: The mayor or his designee.
NOXIOUS PLANTS: Poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac, at any height or stage
of maturity.
OCCUPANT: The person in actual or constructive possession of real property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
RANK WEEDS: A. All vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption, or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community, or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property, or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "rank weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
THICKETS: Dense growths of wild shrubbery having stems or trunk of less than
one inch (1") in diameter, and briar patches.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discharged or abandoned. (Ord. 189, 5-10-2016)
5-2-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants which are allowed to stand at
any season of the year upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the
sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of
land, are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to land zoned or used for agricultural use
which is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from any occupied
commercial or residential subdivision lot, tract or parcel of land.
   C.   It is unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or
control of any lot, tract or parcel of land, except as hereinbefore provided,
to allow rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants to grow or stand upon such
premises, or along the sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such
premises. It is the duty of such owner to cut, remove or destroy any and all
such rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants on such premises.
   D.   It is unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or
control of any lot, tract or parcel of land, except as hereinbefore provided,
to allow trash to accumulate or exist upon such premises, or along streets,
unpaved alleys or public easements adjacent to such premises. It is the duty of
such owner to remove any and all trash on such premises. (Ord. 189, 5-10-2016)
5-2-4: RECEIPT OF REPORT, HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   Whenever the mayor shall determine that rank weeds, thickets or noxious
plants, or any combination thereof, are constituting a threat to the public
health, comfort, safety or welfare, the mayor shall give five (5) days' notice
to the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year's
tax rolls in the county treasurer's office before the mayor holds a hearing or
takes action.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to cut or mow the vegetation
on the property, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed
within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the
city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the city.
   C.   Whenever the mayor shall determine that the accumulation or existence
of trash constitutes a threat to the public health, comfort, safety or welfare,
the mayor shall give at least ten (10) days' notice to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the mayor holds a hearing or takes action.
   D.   The mayor shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the city and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the city.
   E.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if the property owner cannot be located within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing the same, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 102,
one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the
mayor.
   F.   If the mayor anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance
with the provisions as herein provided, the notice, whether by mail or
publication, shall state:
      1.   That any accumulation of trash on the owner's property occurring
within six (6) months after the removal of trash on the property pursuant to
the notice may be summarily abated by the city;
      2.   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
      3.   That a lien shall be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further notice to the property owner.
   G.   If the mayor causes property within the municipal limits to be cleaned
of trash, any subsequent accumulations of trash on the property occurring
within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be
summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At the
time of each summary abatement, the mayor shall notify the property owner of
the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property
owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this section.
   H.   At any time within five (5) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the mayor, a
hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the determination that a
nuisance exists upon his property. The mayor shall conduct such hearing as soon
as may be practicable but not earlier than five (5) days after receipt of the
owner's request for such hearing, and not later than fifteen (15) days after
such receipt.
   I.   At such hearing such owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the mayor, after such
hearing, shall determine that trash, rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants
constitute a nuisance detrimental to health or a fire or traffic hazard on such
property, and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such
hearing are owners of the property upon which such nuisance is located, he
shall file, in writing, his findings of fact and his order that such nuisance
be abated within seven (7) days, and shall cause such findings and order to be
served upon such owner at the conclusion of the hearing.
   J.   An appeal from a final order of the mayor made pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing
with the city clerk, within ten (10) days from the date of the mayor's final
order, a written notice of appeal. The city clerk shall thereupon set the
matter for a hearing before the city council and shall notify the appellant by
registered mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the
filing of the notice of appeal, the mayor shall forthwith transmit to the city
clerk all their records and orders pertaining thereto. The city council, after
hearing the matter in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse or modify the
order of the mayor. (Ord. 189, 5-10-2016)
5-2-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   In the event that:
      1.   No hearing is requested as provided for in this chapter; or
      2.   The mayor or city council, after such hearing, shall have ordered
such nuisance to be abated as provided herein; or
      3.   Such nuisance shall not have been abated within the respective
period specified;
then the mayor may cause such nuisance to be abated forthwith by cutting,
removing or destroying the same, in as many instances as may be necessary for
continual abatement of the nuisance, or may cause a complaint to be filed
against such owner in the municipal court for violation of the provisions of
this chapter, or both.
   B.   To effect abatement, the mayor may cause the nuisance to be abated by
employees for the city or, in the alternative, the mayor may prepare
appropriate specifications, advertise for bids, and award a contract for such
abatement to the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating such nuisance, in
each and every instance where it is abated, shall be borne by the property
owner and shall be assessed as hereinafter provided.
   C.   If the mayor causes property within the municipal limits to have its
trash removed, rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants cut or mowed, then any
subsequent accumulations of trash, weeds, thickets or plants on the property
occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and
may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At
the time of each summary abatement, the mayor shall notify the property owner
of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided for in section
5-2-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Immediately following the cleaning of the property, the city clerk
shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the municipality, and stating that the municipality
claims a lien on the property for the cleaning costs. (Ord. 189, 5-10-2016)
5-2-6: COLLECTION OF CITY COSTS:
   A.   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate the nuisance, the mayor shall cause the nuisance to
be abated either by employees for the city or, in the alternative, by the
contractor who has submitted the lowest and best bid for such work. The actual
and necessary cost required to be expended by the mayor, together with such
administrative expense for mailing of notices, etc., are not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00), and the total of the costs shall be certified to the
office of the city clerk, who shall be responsible for billing all of the costs
to the property owner.
   B.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the county treasurer in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the
property, and when collected shall be paid to the city. Until fully paid, the
cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the
date the cost is certified to the county treasurer.
   C.   Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be deemed guilty of an offense against the city. Each day's continuous
violation shall constitute a separate offense and may be punishable as such.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes unless trash is cited as the nuisance. (Ord.
189, 5-10-2016)
CHAPTER 3
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Nuisance Defined, Prohibited
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Notice To Remove
5-3-4: Responsibility For Removal
5-3-5: Hearing
5-3-6: Removal From Property; Notice
5-3-7: Appraisal
5-3-8: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
5-3-9: Collection Of City Costs Of Removal
5-3-10: Penalty
5-3-1: NUISANCE DEFINED, PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to park, store, leave or
permit the parking, storing or leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which
is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or
partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the city for a period of time in excess of seventy two
(72) hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to any
vehicle enclosed within a building on private property, and properly operated
in the appropriate zone, pursuant to the zoning ordinance, or to any motor
vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for operation on
drag strips or raceways, or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique
collection purposes in a storage place maintained in a lawful place and manner.
(Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Any "motor vehicle", as defined in this section, which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
JUNK WATERCRAFT: Any device intended for water transportation, and any
applicable trailer or motor/engine, which is wrecked, dismantled, abandoned,
discarded or is unable to operate, or without current state of Oklahoma tag,
for the purpose it was manufactured.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel along
the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts and golf
carts.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property which is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government, or any political subdivision
thereof, exercises control and dominion. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Whenever it comes to the attention of the mayor or his designee that
any "nuisance", as defined by this chapter, exists in the city, a notice in
writing shall be served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance
exists, or in case there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the
property or his agent, notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and
requesting its removal in the time specified in this chapter.
   B.   The mayor or his designee shall give notice of removal to the owner or
occupant of the private property where a "nuisance", as defined by this
chapter, is located, at least ten (10) days before the time of compliance. It
shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of same is posted in a
conspicuous place upon the private property upon which the vehicle is located
and duplicate copies are sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the owner or occupant of the private property at his last known address.
   C.   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time
specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that, upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the city shall prosecute a criminal complaint
for failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall undertake such removal with the
cost to be levied against the owner or occupant of the property. (Ord. 190, 5-
10-2016)
5-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city or its designee, the owner or occupant of the private property where same
is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-5: HEARING:
   A.   Persons to whom the notices are directed pursuant to this chapter, or
their duly authorized agent, may file a written request for hearing before an
abandoned vehicle commission within the ten (10) day period of compliance for
the purpose of defending the charges by the city.
   B.   The abandoned vehicle commission shall be comprised of three (3)
members: mayor or his designee, one member of the city council, and the city
attorney or his designee.
   C.   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the filing of
the request and the person to whom the notices are directed shall be advised of
the time and place of the hearing. At any such hearing, the city and the person
to whom the notices have been directed may introduce such witnesses and
evidence as either party deems necessary. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-6: REMOVAL FROM PROPERTY; NOTICE:
   A.   If the violation described in the notice served pursuant to this
chapter has not been remedied within the ten (10) day period of compliance, or
in the event that a notice requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing had,
and the existence of the violation is affirmed by the abandoned vehicle
commission, the mayor or his designee shall continue to prosecute criminal
charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall have
the right to take possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove it from the
premises. It is unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder or to refuse to
allow such person to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a
vehicle under this chapter.
   B.   Within forty eight (48) hours of the removal of a vehicle pursuant to
this chapter, the mayor or his designee shall give notice to the registered
owner of the vehicle, if known, and also to the owner or occupant of the
private property from which the vehicle was removed, that the vehicle has been
impounded and stored for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give the
location where the vehicle is stored and the proper procedure for redeeming the
vehicle, including cost of redemption. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-7: APPRAISAL:
Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, the city shall,
after ten (10) days, cause it to be appraised. If the vehicle is appraised at
seventy five dollars ($75.00) or less, the mayor or his designee shall execute
an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including the license
plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the vehicle.
After complying with this section, the city may summarily dispose of the
vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at over
seventy five dollars ($75.00), notice of public sale shall be given not less
than ten (10) days before the date of the proposed sale. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-8: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the mayor or his
designee of such sum as may be determined and fixed as the actual and
reasonable expense of removal, plus storage. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-9: COLLECTION OF CITY COSTS OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the city to pay the unrecovered expense
incurred by the city in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be
added to the municipal utility bills of the private property from which removed
and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
   B.   If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if
connection efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the city
clerk to the county treasurer of the county in which the property is located,
who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the property
until paid, and such costs shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes assessed against the property and when collected shall be paid to the
city. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
5-3-10: PENALTY:
In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person who violates
any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an
offense against the city. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof
shall constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day's
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate
offense and may be chargeable as such. (Ord. 190, 5-10-2016)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Compliance With Provisions
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Permit Requirements
5-4-4: Permitted Burning
5-4-5: Prohibited Burning
5-4-6: Restrictions On Burning
5-4-7: Violation; Penalties
5-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Open burning of refuse and combustible materials within the limits of the city
is prohibited unless conducted in strict accordance with the conditions and
requirements of this chapter. (2016 Code)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings set out in this section:
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Any substance which will readily burn.
DOMESTIC REFUSE: Any refuse produced during normal daily household operations.
FIRE CHIEF: The duties of fire chief shall be performed by the duly appointed
fire chief of the Oilton fire department, and any other member of the fire
department designated in writing by the fire chief to perform such duties.
LAND CLEARING OPERATION: The uprooting, cutting, or clearing of vegetation in
preparation for construction or change of land use of any type.
LAND MANAGEMENT: Activities that improve the condition of a land area or reduce
the threat of uncontrolled wildfires.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any materials wherein products of combustion are
emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber
shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, only
apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air
and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
OPEN PIT INCINERATOR: Consists of a pit in which combustible material is to be
placed for burning, accompanied by a device that would deliver air to the area
of combustion. This device would increase the amount of air introduced to the
fire and would increase the efficiency of the fire, therefore producing less
smoke and more complete combustion of the wood products involved. (2016 Code)
5-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as herein provided, all open burning within the
city shall require a permit from the fire chief.
   B.   Permit Fee: The fee for a permit shall be as established from time to
time by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Acquiring A Permit:
      1.   A permit must be obtained from city hall upon the approval of the
burn conditions and burn site by the fire chief and the payment of the permit
fee.
      2.   Applications for permits shall be submitted to the city clerk's
office during regular business hours, and the fire chief shall have up to seven
(7) days in which to approve or disapprove the application.
      3.   All permits shall be requested by and issued to the owner, or the
agent of the owner, of the land upon which the open burning is to take place.
Individuals representing themselves as an "agent of the owner" shall have
sufficient written documentation.
      4.   Applicants for permits must present evidence of current liability
insurance coverage in an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for losses which may result from any permitted burning becoming
uncontrolled.
      5.   Permits shall be good for a period of ten (10) days. However, the
fire chief may extend the period for an additional ten (10) days if, in the
opinion of the fire chief, there was not an adequate number of days to
accomplish the burning for which the permit was issued.
      6.   Initial burning shall begin only between three (3) hours after
sunrise and three (3) hours before sunset, and additional fuel shall not be
intentionally added to the fire at times outside these limits. This requirement
does not apply to open burning allowed under subsection 5-4-4A of this chapter.
      7.   The fire department shall order the extinguishment of any open
burning that creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation. Permit
holders are required to extinguish the fire upon the order of the fire
department. Failure of a permit holder to extinguish a fire will result in the
fire department extinguishing the fire.
      8.   Wind speed must be less than ten (10) miles per hour, and the
ceiling must be a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') to three thousand feet
(3,000'), as indicated by the national weather service.
      9.   The burn permit site and the materials to be burned are subject to
inspection at any time during the permit period by any officer of the city fire
department.
      10.   Applicants for permits shall agree in writing, as part of the
application, to be responsible for and pay an additional fee equal to the
standard fee for the fire department to respond to fires outside the city
limits, which fee shall be assessed against the permit holder in the event that
the permit holder loses control of the open burning and the fire department is
required to respond and extinguish the fire.
   D.   Revocation Of Permit: The fire department shall retain the authority to
revoke any burn permit at any time due to weather conditions, excessive and
justifiable complaints, noncompliance with this chapter, and any time it is
deemed in the best interests of the city. Permit fees will be returned in cases
where the revocation is based on conditions outside the control of the owner or
agent of the owner. (2016 Code)
5-4-4: PERMITTED BURNING:
Open burning will be allowable for the following reasons and/or purposes:
   A.   Recreational fires, campfires, bonfires, ceremonial occasions, or
noncommercial preparation of food, with the following provisions:
      1.   All bonfires require a permit and shall not be more than five feet
by five feet by five feet (5' x 5' x 5') in dimension and shall burn for less
than three (3) hours. A bonfire shall consist of seasoned dry wood. No gasoline
or other liquid hydrocarbon fuels shall be used for ignition.
      2.   Campfires are not permitted in residentially zoned areas. Campfires
require a permit and approval of the fire chief's office.
      3.   Barbecue grills or other wood burning grills are allowed at public
park and recreation facilities without the necessity of obtaining a permit. All
fires on public park and recreation property shall be attended at all times by
at least one individual until the fire is completely extinguished.
      4.   Fires used for food preparation purposes, fueled by wood, charcoal,
and gas, and confined within a metal or masonry appliance designed for such use
are allowed without a permit, provided:
         a.   The fires are supervised;
         b.   The size of fire does not present a fire spread danger; and
         c.   The fires are being used expressly for the preparation of food.
Food preparation fires are not permitted directly on the ground, unless the
containment is approved by the fire chief's office.
      5.   Barbecuing on combustible decks or balconies at multi-story
apartment complexes is not allowed unless noncombustible surfaces are in place
to prevent embers or ashes from coming into contact with combustible materials.
Noncombustible surfaces are to be above, below and adjacent to the site.
   B.   Land management fires set by an approved state or local agency
specifically for management of forests or rangelands.
   C.   Land clearing operations set for the specific reason of clearing land
for construction:
      1.   All land clearing operations will be conducted in an approved open
pit, with induced air, when conducted within one hundred fifty feet (150') to
three hundred feet (300') upwind of any occupied structures.
      2.   No land clearing operations burning shall be permitted less than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from any occupied structure.
      3.   If operations are proposed less than three hundred feet (300') from
any occupied structures, all adjoining occupied property owners must consent in
writing prior to consideration of the permit being issued.
      4.   Land clearing operations with distances of five hundred feet (500')
or more from occupied structures may be conducted above ground when approved by
the fire chief's office.
      5.   Land clearing operations shall be conducted so as to reduce the
amount of wood to be burned during the operation.
   D.   Prevention or control of disease or pests as approved by the state or
local agency.
   E.   Fire for the purpose of training public and industrial fire department
personnel.
   F.   Elimination of fire hazards that cannot be abated by any other means;
provided, that any structure to be burned shall be razed or knocked down and
placed in a pile so as to ensure maximum consumption of combustible materials.
   G.   Property maintenance and agricultural purposes:
      1.   Areas to be burned for agricultural purposes must be confined by
plowing or tilling the perimeter to a width acceptable to the fire chief.
      2.   Burning of tree and vegetation waste for property maintenance is
allowed by permit, so long as the byproducts do not adversely affect
surrounding occupants. The fire chief shall decide as to whether or not the
amount of material to be burned falls under this subsection G or will be deemed
as a land clearing operation. Any pile of combustible material being burned
under this subsection G shall not exceed five feet by five feet by five feet
(5' x 5' x 5') in dimension at the commencement of burning and any time during
the burning. (2016 Code)
5-4-5: PROHIBITED BURNING:
Open burning for the following reasons is prohibited:
   A.   Burning of domestic refuse.
   B.   Burning of debris, construction/demolition materials, or materials
other than wood and vegetation. (2016 Code)
5-4-6: RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING:
The following apply during a burn:
   A.   No public nuisance is or will be created.
   B.   The burning is controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created as a
result of the air contaminants being emitted.
   C.   The burning is conducted so that ambient air quality of the general
area as well as the other areas of the city and areas surrounding the city is
not adversely affected.
   D.   Any open burning shall be constantly attended until the fire is
extinguished. At least one portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-
A rating, two (2) portable fire extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating each,
or other approved on site fire extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand,
water barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate
utilization.
   E.   The minimum distance for open burning from oil and gas wells shall be
one thousand feet (1,000'), unless a lesser distance is approved by the oil and
gas lease operator and the fire chief's office.
   F.   Distances from any electric and overhead utilities shall be a minimum
of fifty feet (50'). (2016 Code)
5-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code, any person, firm or corporation found violating any
provision of this chapter shall be assessed a fee equal to the standard fire
department response fee in the event that the fire department is required to
respond and extinguish any fire which is set in violation of this chapter.
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WATER WELLS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Prohibitions
5-5-3: Existing Wells To Be Abandoned And Plugged
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is to protect the underground water supply
of the city and to protect the public health and safety and property rights of
the city and its inhabitants, particularly with reference to the drilling, use
and operation of water wells by private individuals or corporations within the
city limits. (2015 Code § 5-801)
5-5-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Drilling Water Wells: All persons, firms and corporations (except the
city) are hereby expressly prohibited from drilling wells for the production of
fresh water within the city limits. (2015 Code § 5-802)
   B.   Use Of Water From Existing Wells: All persons, firms and corporations
(except the city) are hereby prohibited from producing and using fresh water
from any existing water wells within the city limits. (2015 Code § 5-803)
5-5-3: EXISTING WELLS TO BE ABANDONED AND PLUGGED:
From and after the effective date hereof, all persons, firms, and corporations
(except the city) who own existing fresh water wells within the city limits are
hereby required to forthwith, under the supervision of the proper officials of
the city, abandon and plug any water wells owned or used by such persons, firms
or corporations within the city limits. (2015 Code § 5-804)
CHAPTER 6
OCCUPANCY OF CAMPERS, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose And Definitions
5-6-2: Location And Permit Requirements
5-6-3: Permit Fees
5-6-4: Inspection; Issuance Of Permit; Display Of Permit
5-6-5: Violation; Penalties
5-6-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The purpose and intent of this chapter is to
establish and provide minimum acceptable standards, requirements and
regulations for the planned use, development, and maintenance of travel
trailers, campers, and recreational vehicles within the corporate limits of the
city of Oilton, to include both freestanding and those located in an RV park,
in the interest of the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents.
   B.   Definitions:
    PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit has been issued within the scope of
this chapter.
   RV HOME PARK: Land or property that is used or intended to be used or rented
for occupancy by campers, travel trailers or recreational vehicles, including
all necessary utilities, streets, and other common amenities.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: For the purpose of this chapter, a travel trailer is hereby
defined and declared to be any vehicle modified, used or so constructed as to
permit its being used as a dwelling or sleeping place, which is or may be
mounted on wheels, and is or may be propelled by its own power or by another
vehicle to which it may be attached. (Ord. 192, 8-9-2016)
5-6-2: LOCATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Requirements: Any travel trailer, camper or recreational
vehicle site permitted, allowed, authorized and maintained within the corporate
limits of the city of Oilton prior to the effective date hereof and in
compliance with any laws hereby repealed or amended, may continue to be
maintained under the laws then in effect. Any travel trailer, camper or
recreational vehicle existing within the corporate limits of the city of Oilton
on the effective date hereof shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   A travel trailer, camper or recreational vehicle site permitted
shall be deemed abandoned if not used for a period of six (6) months after the
effective date hereof, and shall thereafter be required to comply with all of
its provisions.
   B.   Travel Trailer, Camper And Recreational Vehicle Site Requirements:
      1.   Every person, firm or entity desiring to locate, establish, expand,
construct, or place a travel trailer, camper or recreational vehicle within the
city of Oilton shall, prior to placing or locating such travel trailer, camper
or recreational vehicle within the city of Oilton, submit a site plan and seek
approval from the city of Oilton. Such plan as submitted shall include the
following information:
         a.   A legal description of the property where it will be placed.
         b.   The location of the trailer on the property.
         c.   The description of the travel trailer, camper, or recreational
vehicle, including size, year and make.
      2.   The city code officer shall inspect the site plan and location prior
to granting a permit. The permit will be valid through the end of the calendar
year. Permit must be displayed in a manner that can be easily observed by
public officials and shown upon request.
         a.   Location must have own metered water supply.
         b.   Location must provide the ability to connect to the city's
sanitary system.
         c.   Camper/trailer/RV must be skirted.
         d.   Location must not interfere with or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic, or block access to utility easements or driveways.
         e.   Camper/trailer/RV must be located on its own lots and will not be
allowed to connect to another residence/business. (Ord. 192, 8-9-2016)
5-6-3: PERMIT FEES:
Every application for a camper/travel trailer permit shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee as set by motion or resolution of the city council. The
monies shall cover the fee for processing the application as well as the fee
required for the balance of the calendar year if a permit is granted. A renewal
application and renewal application fee as set by motion or resolution of the
city council is due and payable during the month of January covering each
calendar year. (2016 Code)
5-6-4: INSPECTION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
The code enforcement officer or other designee of the city will inspect the
location prior to the granting of any permit. Upon approval of the location,
the applicant will be provided a permit valid through the end of the calendar
year. The permit must then be displayed in such a manner that it can be easily
seen by public officials. (2016 Code)
5-6-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each offense, plus court costs. Each day that a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose
5-7-2: Inspector
5-7-3: Permit Requirements
5-7-4: Permit And Inspection Fees
5-7-5: Casing
5-7-6: Pipelines And Ditches
5-7-7: Fencing
5-7-8: Prohibitions
5-7-9: Damage To Water And Sewer Lines
5-7-10: Liability For Damages
5-7-11: Special Exception Procedures
5-7-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is to protect the underground water supply
of the city and to protect the public health and safety and property rights of
the city and its inhabitants, particularly with reference to the drilling and
operation of wells for oil or gas, and the laying and maintaining of pipelines
for oil or gas within the city limits. (2015 Code § 5-701)
5-7-2: INSPECTOR:
The building official is designated as "inspector" under this chapter, but the
mayor from time to time may designate a substitute as such inspector, whose
duty it shall be to:
   A.   Witness the full operation of tallying and cementing the outside string
of casing in each well as hereinafter provided;
   B.   Inspect for depth, the pipelines for oil or gas laid under the terms of
this chapter, before the filling of the ditches; and
   C.   Inspect the repairing of sewer and water lines damaged and the filling
and repairing of streets and alleys where the pipelines are laid. (2015 Code §
5-703)
5-7-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Clerk Duties; Appeals: It is the duty of the city clerk, in the first
instance, to pass upon applications and to issue permits hereunder and under
the terms and conditions hereof, or to deny the same. The applicants for such
permits shall have the right of appeal to the mayor and city council in case of
refusal or denial of such permits. (2015 Code § 5-702)
   B.   Filing Applications: Hereafter, all persons, firms or corporations,
before commencing the drilling of a well for oil or gas, and before commencing
the digging of ditches for the laying of pipelines in streets or alleys for oil
or gas, shall file with the city clerk an application in writing for a permit
to do so, showing the particular location of such wells or pipelines, and
receive from the city clerk a permit or permits in writing therefor, and pay
the permit fees hereinafter fixed therefor. (2015 Code § 5-704)
5-7-4: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Permit Fee: A permit fee as set by the city council is hereby fixed for
the granting of each permit under this chapter, whether for one or more items
if all are included in one application for a permit and one permit is granted
for such items. The fee shall be paid to the city clerk by the applicant
therefor at or before the granting of such permit.
   B.   Inspection Fees: Inspection fees as set by the city council per hour or
fraction thereof for each hour spent by the inspector in performing his duties
under this chapter are required. The inspection fees shall be paid by the
owners of the wells or pipeline to the city clerk on the first day of the
following month in which inspections are made.
   C.   Disposition Of Fees: All fees are hereby appropriated to the general
fund of the city. (2015 Code § 5-716)
5-7-5: CASING:
Before any well for oil or gas shall be drilled to any known oil or gas sand in
the city limits, the owners, agents, employees, or contractors thereof shall
notify the inspector in writing of the time and place when the outside string
of the casing of the well will be tallied and cemented, whereupon the casing
will be tallied, run in the well, and cemented from top to bottom by the
circulating method. (2015 Code § 5-705)
5-7-6: PIPELINES AND DITCHES:
   A.   All pipelines for oil or gas used for transporting oil or gas from the
wells through the streets and alleys shall be buried below grade at least
eighteen inches (18"), but where crossing bar ditches, they may be buried not
less than twelve inches (12"), and kept free from leaks, at the expense of the
owner of the pipelines. (2015 Code § 5-710)
   B.   Before pipelines are covered, the owners thereof or the persons laying
the lines shall notify, in writing, the inspector. It is the duty of the
inspector to inspect as to the depth of the pipe and as to the damage, if any,
done to water or sewer lines as a result of opening ditches for the pipelines.
(2015 Code § 5-712)
   C.   All open ditches shall be protected by the owners of the pipelines by
ample warning signs and barricades. Such ditches shall not be left open except
for the time reasonably necessary for the laying of the pipe therein and the
repairing of any damage done to other lines by such digging. (2015 Code § 5-
711)
   D.   It is the duty of the owners of the wells or pipelines to refill and
keep refilled all such ditches to grade level with like material and like
construction as that removed in the digging of the ditches. (2015 Code § 5-714)
5-7-7: FENCING:
The well and pumping unit of each well shall, at all times after completion, be
kept enclosed with a six foot (6') cyclone fence, and the unit shall be kept
clean and painted, and the premises about the well location shall be kept
clean. (2015 Code § 5-708)
5-7-8: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Mud Pits: The use of earthen slush or circulating mud pits is strictly
prohibited. (2015 Code § 5-706)
   B.   Use Of Other Than Electric Powered Pumping Units: The use of other than
electric powered pumping units is strictly prohibited. (2015 Code § 5-707)
   C.   Storage Of Crude Oil: No storage tanks or tank batteries for the
storing of crude oil shall be erected in the city limits, and no crude oil
shall be stored in the city limits at any time. (2015 Code § 5-709)
5-7-9: DAMAGE TO WATER AND SEWER LINES:
In case of damage to sewer or water lines, it shall be the duty of the owners
of the wells or pipelines to immediately repair such damage under inspection by
the inspector. (2015 Code § 5-713)
5-7-10: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
In case of failure of the owners of the wells or pipelines to repair the
damage, in addition to the penalties hereinafter provided, if any, that is to
say any damages to sewer and water lines and streets and alleys, within a
reasonable time, the city may do so. By acceptance of the permit herein
provided, the owners of the permit or permits civilly agree to be bound to pay
and reimburse the city for all expenses incurred thereby in the repair of the
sewer and water lines and streets and alleys on failure of the owners of the
wells or pipelines to do so. (2015 Code § 5-715)
5-7-11: SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROCEDURES:
Ordinance 107, "special exception procedures for oil and gas permits", is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, applicable as if fully set
out at length herein, and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 5-717)
CHAPTER 8
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Food Service Regulations Adopted
5-8-2: Federal Milk Ordinance
5-8-1: FOOD SERVICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   The latest edition of the "Oklahoma State Department Of Health Rules
And Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated into this code by reference. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the city clerk. The rules and
regulations shall govern the definitions; the inspection of food service
establishments; the issuance, suspension, and revocation of permits to operate
food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or
misbranded food or drink; and the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of a violation
may be enjoined from continuing the violation. (2015 Code § 8-201)
5-8-2: FEDERAL MILK ORDINANCE:
   A.   Part II Adopted: Part II of the grade A pasteurized milk ordinance,
recommended by the U.S. public health service, is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference to govern and regulate the production,
transportation, processing, handling, sampling, examination, grading, labeling
and sale of milk and milk products sold for ultimate consumption within the
city limits or its police jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy
herds and milk plants; and the issuing and revocation of permits to milk
producers, haulers and distributors. At least one copy of the pasteurized milk
ordinance shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Sections 9, 16 and 17
of the abridged ordinance shall be replaced, respectively, by subsections B1
and B2 of this section. (2015 Code § 8-202; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Amendments To Ordinance:
      1.   Grade Requirements: Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products
shall be sold to the final consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery
stores or similar establishments including lunchrooms; provided that in an
emergency, milk which is ungraded or the grade which is unknown, may be
authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk and milk products
shall be labeled "ungraded".
   (2015 Code § 8-203; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (2015 Code § 8-204)
CHAPTER 9
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
5-9-1: Enforcement By County Health Department; Appeals
5-9-2: Obstructing, Noncompliance With Health Officer
5-9-3: Violation; Penalties
5-9-1: ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT; APPEALS:
Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words "health officer" are used,
they shall be construed to mean the director of the county health department or
his duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the mayor
and city council to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of the
city as set out in this section, and any such decisions rendered under this
section shall be subject to review by the city council upon an appeal from an
offender. (2015 Code § 8-501; amd. 2016 Code)
5-9-2: OBSTRUCTING, NONCOMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with
the health officer. (2015 Code § 8-502; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
health officer regarding the enforcement of such order, direction, prohibition,
rule or regulation. (2015 Code § 8-503; amd. 2016 Code)
5-9-3: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this title or any law or code adopted
by reference in this title is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (2015 Code § 8-504)
CHAPTER 10
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definitions
5-10-2: Condemnation, Boarding And Securing Of Dilapidated Buildings; Notice,
Removal, Lien, Payment
5-10-3: Cleaning Up Of Premises From Which Buildings Have Been Removed
5-10-4: Penalty
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or locking
of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the structure.
CLEANING OR CLEANED: The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: The neglect of necessary repairs to a building or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health or safety or
welfare of the general public.
MAYOR: The mayor or his designee.
UNSECURED BUILDING: A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public. (Ord. 188, 5-10-2016)
5-10-2: CONDEMNATION, BOARDING AND SECURING OF DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS; NOTICE,
REMOVAL, LIEN, PAYMENT:
The mayor may cause dilapidated buildings within the city limits to be torn
down and removed, or boarded or secured, in accordance with the following
procedure:
   A.   At least fifteen (15) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property before the mayor takes action or holds a hearing as provided herein. A
copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected. In addition,
a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at the address
shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the county treasurer.
Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the
records in the office of the county clerk to the last known address of the
mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property,
or by publication, as defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102. Such
notice may be published once not less than fifteen (15) days prior to any
hearing or action to be taken pursuant to this section.
   B.   A hearing shall be held by the mayor to determine whether the property
is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the health, benefit and
welfare of the public and the community, or creates a fire hazard to the danger
of property, or needs to be boarded and secured.
   C.   If the mayor finds that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or a hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, or by its boarding and securing, the mayor may cause the
dilapidated building to be torn down and removed, and boarded and secured, and
shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The
city clerk shall immediately file a notice of lien with the county clerk
describing the property, the findings of the mayor at the hearing, and stating
that the city claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal,
boarding and securing costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of
the property owner from and after the date of filing of the notice.
   D.   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the city council
from an order of the mayor. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the city
clerk within ten (10) days after the mayor's order is rendered.
   E.   If the work is not performed by the property owner within the dates
fixed by the mayor, the mayor shall direct the tearing down and removal, or
boarding and securing, be done by one of the following methods:
      1.   By the city; provided, that the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      2.   On a private contract basis, in which case it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
   F.   After the building has been torn down and removed, or boarded and
secured, the mayor shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling and
removal of the dilapidated building, or the boarding and securing of, and any
other expenses as may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including the cost
of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward a statement of such actual
cost attributable to the dismantling and removal or boarding and securing and a
demand for payment by mail to the property owner at the address specified in
this section. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address specified in this section. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
   G.   If payment is not made within six (6) months from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located. The city shall have a lien on the property for such costs,
together with interest thereon, and the lien shall continue until the cost
shall be fully paid.
   H.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city shall
file a release of lien or part thereof.
   I.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
   J.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from otherwise abating a
dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 188, 5-10-2016)
5-10-3: CLEANING UP OF PREMISES FROM WHICH BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED:
In all cases in which:
   A.   A house or building has been removed before the taking effect of this
chapter; or
   B.   A house or building is torn down or demolished pursuant to order of the
state fire marshal or one of his assistants or the sheriff of the county or the
chief of the fire department as provided by state law or as provided in this
chapter;
and in which any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   The premises has not been cleaned up;
   B.   The premises is cleaned up, and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
   C.   The materials removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
   D.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed and
all openings to sanitary sewer have not been plugged and securely closed to
meet the requirements of the city plumbing inspector;
   E.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from trash
or the same be not immediately done;
then the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm or corporation
who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with the
provisions of this chapter by having all of the things done. (Ord. 188, 5-10-
2016)
5-10-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the city limits without having first procured permit therefor
as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 188, 5-10-2016)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Chief
6-1-2: Duties Of Department
6-1-3: Police Officers
6-1-4: Assistance To Other Communities
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police or
police chief, appointed by the mayor, with approval of city council, and
removable by the mayor, with approval of city council. The chief of police is
an officer of the city and has supervision and control of the police
department. All police officers are officers of the city. (2015 Code § 13-301)
6-1-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the city; to
suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other process properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects, to perform
all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The police department
has charge of and operates the city jail, however, the city council may arrange
with the board of county commissioners for use of the county jail. (2015 Code §
13-302)
6-1-3: POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: Police officers shall be appointed by the mayor, subject
to approval by the city council. (2015 Code § 13-303; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Duties: Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required
of them by the chief of police, city ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other action required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace. (2015 Code § 13-303)
6-1-4: ASSISTANCE TO OTHER COMMUNITIES:
   A.   Assistance Permitted: Approval is hereby given for service of members
of the regular police department of the city as police officers of any other
city, town or county in an emergency situation in the state not more than forty
five (45) miles distant from the city when such service is requested by the
mayor or chief of police of the city or town or sheriff of the county, in
accordance with state law. (2015 Code § 13-304)
   B.   Requests: Requests for service under subsection A of this section shall
be made by writing or by telephone or other means of communication to the chief
of police of the city, who, if he determines that the request can be granted
consistently with the continuance of the proper police protection to the
inhabitants of the city, shall furnish the number of officers requested and
arrange for their transportation to the requesting municipality or county.
(2015 Code § 13-305)
   C.   Costs: Any municipality or county requesting and receiving service by
members of the police department of the city may reimburse the city for the
cost of the transportation to and from such municipality or county of the
officers so serving and the prorated cost of their salaries, insurance and
other benefits attributable to their service in such municipality or county.
(2015 Code § 13-306)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established; Volunteer Department
6-2-2: Duties Of Department
6-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Chief
6-2-4: Other Department Personnel
6-2-5: New Members
6-2-6: Bylaws
6-2-7: Use Of Equipment Restricted
6-2-8: Service Outside City Limits
6-2-9: Rules And Regulations
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   There shall be a fire department, the head of which shall be the chief
of the fire department.
   B.   The term "volunteer firefighter" means one who is enrolled as a member
of the fire department of the city and who serves in that capacity without
receiving a regular salary. A person who is a salaried public safety employee
of the city shall not serve as a volunteer firefighter of the fire department
unless the person is off duty and such service is not a condition of
employment. A "public safety employee" is a person employed to serve as a
salaried firefighter, police or other law enforcement officer or emergency
medical technician. The size of the volunteer fire department of the city shall
be not less than eight (8) nor more than twenty five (25) members. (2015 Code §
13-201; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to administer first aid
to persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention; and, unless otherwise provided, to
enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of
persons from fire in public and private buildings. (2015 Code § 13-201)
6-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The fire chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject to
the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
   A.   Be responsible for the general condition and efficient operation of the
department, the training of members, and the performance of all other duties
imposed upon him;
   B.   Have supervision and control of the fire department, subject to the
supervision and control of the city council;
   C.   May inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the department, the
fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at least twice each
year; (2015 Code § 13-202)
   D.   Maintain a library or file of publications on fire prevention and fire
protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage of all members; (2015
Code § 13-202; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Make every effort to attend all fires and shall direct the officers and
members in the performance of their duties;
   F.   See that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards in the
community and on the activities of the department;
   G.   See that each fire is carefully investigated to determine its cause,
and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson, shall notify proper
authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use in the
case;
   H.   Is authorized to enter any building or premises in the city at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written
notice on persons for any violations that may be found;
   I.   See that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections, apparatus
and equipment, personnel and other information of the department and shall make
reports to the city council as the council may require;
   J.   Keep the city council informed regarding the fire department and its
needs; and (2015 Code § 13-202)
   K.   File the appropriate activity report forms with the office of the state
fire marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The activity report forms
shall be designed by the state fire marshal and shall include, but not be
limited to, the amount of property and vehicle fire loss, types of fires,
inspections and investigations. The report shall include notification of all
fire related civilian deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction and of
firefighter deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter injuries in the line
of duty requiring the services of a hospital or physician or both. (2016 Code)
6-2-4: OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on
duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant
chief shall be elected from among the members of the fire department. (2015
Code § 13-203)
   B.   Company Officers: Company officers shall be selected by the chief based
upon the following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2015 Code § 13-204)
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the fire
department shall be a secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the
following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any monies due the department by the members. (2015 Code
§ 13-205)
6-2-5: NEW MEMBERS:
New members of the volunteer department shall be recommended to the city
council for appointment by the chief. New members shall be on probation for one
year after their appointment. Upon completion of their probationary period, new
members must be approved by the majority of the other members of the fire
department and the city council. (2015 Code § 13-206)
6-2-6: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   C.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held each
month; (2015 Code § 13-207)
   D.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be expelled from the
fire department rolls;
   E.   Any member leaving the city for an extended period of time is required
to notify the chief;
   F.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members of
the department will be expelled; and
   G.   Any member of the fire department may be expelled from the rolls for
the following offenses: (2015 Code § 13-207; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
      5.   Conviction of a felony; or
      6.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
city council. (2015 Code § 13-207)
6-2-7: USE OF EQUIPMENT RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
   B.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the department. (2015 Code § 13-209)
6-2-8: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Contracts For Service:
      1.   The city is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts
or agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the city, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state. (2015 Code § 13-
210)
      2.   Any contract entered into by the city with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation, or association for outside aid or mutual aid for
fire protection shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, or political subdivision to the city for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the city council. All
monies received from the calls shall go into the general fund. (2015 Code § 13-
211)
   B.   Authority To Answer Calls: The city fire department is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all calls outside the corporate city limits
in the discretion of the fire chief. The fire department may not answer such
outside calls if, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so
on account of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions. (2015 Code § 13-212)
   C.   Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty: All volunteer
firefighters of the city fire department attending and serving at fires or
doing fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or
any other official work outside the corporate limits of the city, as herein
provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully
as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the city. The
firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any firefighters pension
and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention
work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work
was being done within the corporate limits of the city. Compensation of
firefighters shall be as provided by the city council by ordinance or
resolution. (2015 Code § 13-213; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Department Considered Agent Of State: The city fire department
answering any fire alarm or call, or performing any fire prevention services or
rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other official work outside
the corporate limits of the city shall be considered as an agent of the state,
and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the city shall not
be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or negligence while
answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection or any other
official work under and by virtue of this section. (2015 Code § 13-214; amd.
2016 Code)
6-2-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department and its organization, operation and
compensation. (2015 Code § 13-208)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION AND DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Organization Created; Purpose And Duties
6-3-2: Department Established; Composition
6-3-3: Director Of Emergency Management
6-3-4: Emergency Powers
6-3-5: Compensation Of Members; Nonliability Of City For Injuries
6-3-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED; PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
An emergency management organization is created for the city to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the city. The duties of the emergency
management organization are the protection of the lives and health of the
citizens and of property and property rights, both private and public, and
performance of all functions necessary and incidental thereto. (2015 Code § 13-
401; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-2: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a department of emergency management which shall
consist of:
   A.   A director of emergency management who shall be appointed and may be
the chief of police, and removed, with or without cause, by the mayor; and
   B.   An emergency management advisory committee. This committee shall
consist of the mayor as chair and five (5) members appointed by the mayor and
serving at his pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a vice
chair and secretary. The committee shall hold such meetings as are directed by
the mayor, and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed
or requested by the mayor or the director of emergency management. (2015 Code §
13-402; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-3: DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:
The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of the
department of emergency management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management program of the city. He shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
his duties. It shall be the duty of the director of emergency management, as
soon as practicable after his appointment, to perfect an organization to carry
out the purposes set forth in this chapter, and he shall have all necessary
power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and
designate the chair or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to
perfect such an organization. He shall have further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and the federal governments. The director of emergency
management is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather
information and keep written records thereof to govern the functions of the
emergency management organization. (2015 Code § 13-403; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director of emergency management, after due authorization
from the mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to emergency management and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies
or emergency management organizations. If required by the mayor, the director
shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the
purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
   B.   The director of emergency management and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city during the period
of emergency and shall, at such time, have the further power to make arrests
for violations of such laws or ordinances. (2015 Code § 13-404; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-5: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS; NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR INJURIES:
All members of the emergency management organization created in this chapter
shall serve without compensation. The city shall not be liable for any personal
or bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in
the line of duty. (2015 Code § 13-405; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Animal Control Officer
6-4-3: Dogs And Cats
6-4-3-1: Rabies Vaccination Required
6-4-3-2: Dog Registration Requirements
6-4-3-3: Female Dog Or Cat In Heat
6-4-3-4: Leashing Dogs Required
6-4-4: Animals At Large
6-4-5: Pasturing Animals
6-4-6: Nuisance Animals
6-4-7: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4-8: Animal Houses
6-4-9: Treatment And Care Of Animals
6-4-10: Rabies Control
6-4-11: Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
6-4-12: Wild, Exotic Or Dangerous Animals
6-4-13: Kennels, Catteries And Pet Shops
6-4-14: Conflicts With Zoning Ordinance
6-4-15: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
AT LARGE: Any animal not under restraint.
CONFINED ON THE PREMISES: That condition in which an animal is securely and
physically confined and retained on and within the premises of the owner or
keeper by means of walls or fences.
DOG: Means and includes any dog and every other animal of canine species at the
age of two (2) months or older which is situated within the city limits for a
period of fifteen (15) consecutive days or more.
HARBORING: Any person who allows any dog to habitually remain or lodge or to be
fed within his home, store, yard, enclosure or place of business or any
premises in which such person resides or controls shall be considered as
harboring such animal.
OWNER: Any person or group of persons possessing, keeping or harboring a dog or
dogs and responsible for the care or maintenance of such dogs.
RESTRAINT: An animal controlled by a leash not more than eight feet (8') in
length, or at the "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that
person's commands, or confined on the premises of his owner or keeper.
STRAY: Any animal which does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal that has bitten or attempted to bite a person or
animal without undue provocation, or which attacks, barks or growls at or acts
as if it intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or an animal when not
unduly provoked. Such animal may be destroyed upon orders of the animal control
officer or confined in an approved manner. An animal is also considered vicious
when it has a disposition to attack persons or animals without provocation.
(2015 Code § 4-101; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The office of animal control officer is hereby created. The animal control
officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter and is hereby
authorized to file complaints in the municipal court for violations of this
chapter. (2015 Code § 4-109)
6-4-3: DOGS AND CATS:
6-4-3-1: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against rabies
by a veterinarian every calendar year or, in the case of a pup or kitten,
before it is four (4) months old. The person vaccinating the dog or cat shall
furnish a certificate or statement of vaccination. (2015 Code § 4-120)
6-4-3-2: DOG REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Fee:
      1.   Required: A fee in such sum as set by the city council by motion or
resolution for every dog more than six (6) months of age is hereby imposed upon
the owner of any such dog kept or harbored within the city.
      2.   Exemptions: The regulatory fee imposed in this subsection A shall
not apply to a dog only temporarily brought into and kept within the city, nor
to a dog brought into the city to participate in a dog show, nor to a service
dog when such dog is actually being used by a person with disabilities, nor to
dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale. (2015 Code § 4-121; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   Payment: The owner shall pay the fee to the city for every calendar
year and within fifteen (15) days after acquiring or bringing the dog into the
city. The licenses shall expire one year from the date the license was last
issued and shall not be issued for less than one year.
   B.   Display Of Rabies Vaccination Certificate Required: The person offering
the fee shall present to the city the certificate of a veterinarian or other
person legally authorized to immunize dogs showing that the dog has been
immunized against rabies during the preceding six (6) months prior to issuance
of the license.
   C.   Required Information: The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying
the fee, register the dog by giving the name and address of the owner; the
name, breed, color and sex of the dog; and such other reasonable information as
the city may request.
   D.   Receipt And Tag:
      1.   The city shall deliver an original receipt and an appropriate tag
for the dog to the owner. The tag shall constitute a license for the dog. (2015
Code § 4-121)
      2.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the city to be affixed
to the collar of the dog so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the
city. The owner shall see that the tag is worn by the dog at all times.
      3.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another tag by applying to the city, presenting to
him the original receipt, and paying to him a fee as set by the city council.
(2015 Code § 4-122)
6-4-3-3: FEMALE DOG OR CAT IN HEAT:
It is unlawful for the owner or harborer to fail, at all times, to confine any
female dog or cat which is in season in a building or secure enclosure,
veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, except when on a leash and under the
control of a competent person. (2015 Code § 4-110)
6-4-3-4: LEASHING DOGS REQUIRED:
When requested by any proper official, meter reader, police officer, sanitation
worker, or other person whose duty is to enter onto private property, an owner
shall leash or otherwise confine any and all dogs to prevent harm to the person
making a lawful entry on owner's private property. (2015 Code § 4-111)
6-4-4: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: The owner or keeper of any dog, cat or other animal,
including fowl, shall keep such animal under restraint at all times and shall
not permit such animal to be at large. Apprehension of such animal shall not be
a prerequisite to fine or punishment for violation of this subsection. (2015
Code § 4-102)
   B.   Turning Animals At Large Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to
open any enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so
as to turn the animal at large or in any manner to turn the animal at large.
(2015 Code § 4-103)
6-4-5: PASTURING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any private property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (2015 Code § 4-104)
6-4-6: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: The following conditions are hereby declared to
be nuisances:
      1.   Any dog or other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise,
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person;
      2.   Any dog or other animal which goes into any garbage can or other
waste vessel or turns the same over or scatters the contents of the same on the
ground; and
      3.   Any dog or other animal which chases cars, motorcycles, bicycles or
any other motor vehicle or intimidates joggers, pedestrians or children.
   B.   Nuisance Animals Unlawful: It is unlawful to keep or harbor an animal
which is determined to be a nuisance as herein defined. (2015 Code § 4-105)
   C.   Abatement Procedure: Any dog or other animal alleged to be a nuisance,
as defined in this section, may be proceeded against in the municipal court
after a complaint has been duly filed therein by any person having knowledge
thereof, and if the court shall find that such dog or other animal is a
nuisance, then the court may order the owner or person in possession to prevent
and abate such nuisance, or the court may order such dog or animal impounded,
and the owner or person in possession may have the dog or other animal returned
upon paying all costs of impounding and giving good and sufficient bond in the
sum as set by the city council, conditioned that he will prevent and abate such
nuisance. Thirty (30) days thereafter, such owner or person in possession may
present to the court evidence that the nuisance has been abated and prevented,
and the court may, upon such hearing, order the bond returned. (2015 Code § 4-
105; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Animal Control Shelter: A city animal control shelter is hereby
established under the jurisdiction of the animal control officer or such other
person as may be officially designated. The person in charge of the animal
control shelter shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and
shall treat them in a humane manner. (2015 Code § 4-130)
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals:
      1.   Authority:
         a.   The animal control officer, a police officer, or such other
officer or employee of the city as may be authorized by the city: (2015 Code §
4-131)
            (1)   Shall take into custody and impound any animal running at
large in violation of any provision of this chapter; and (2015 Code § 4-131;
amd. 2016 Code)
            (2)   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private
premises to take such animal into custody.
         b.   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it
to the authority in charge of the animal control shelter for impounding. (2015
Code § 4-131)
      2.   Fees:
         a.   The city council, by motion or resolution, shall determine the
fees to be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the fee, a
fraction of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full
day.
         b.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required
fees to the city treasurer and present his receipt therefor to the person in
charge of the control shelter before the latter releases the animal. (2015 Code
§ 4-133)
         c.   Any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by sections
6-4-3-1 and
6-4-3-2 of this chapter shall pay the required license fee to the city
treasurer and secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the
person in charge of the control shelter before the latter releases the dog. If
a dog has been licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge of the
control shelter shall require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the
dog before releasing it. (2015 Code § 4-133; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Redemption Of Animals: An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may
redeem the animal prior to its sale or destruction by paying the required fees
against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be prescribed
in this section. However, when, in the judgment of the animal control officer,
an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be
redeemed. (2015 Code § 4-134; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Disposition Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   Sale Or Destruction:
         a.   As soon as practicable after any animal has been impounded, the
animal control officer, or other employee or officer impounding the animal,
shall post a notice thereof at the police office or animal control shelter of
the city. The notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the
charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The notice
shall also state that unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold or
destroyed as provided in this section.
         b.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an impounded animal
shall be held for seventy two (72) hours, during which time it may be redeemed
pursuant to this section. No animal may be destroyed or sold until after this
period. (2015 Code § 4-135)
         c.   Sales shall be for cash and shall be conducted by or under the
direction of the chief of police. In no case shall the price of an animal be
less than those fees set by motion or resolution of the city council which have
accrued against the animal. If an impounded animal cannot be sold, the animal
shall be destroyed in a humane manner or otherwise disposed of in a legal
manner. (2015 Code § 4-135; amd. 2016 Code)
         d.   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein
shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
         e.   The animal control officer shall pay to the city all monies
received from the sale of impounded animals on the day the monies are received.
(2015 Code § 4-135)
         f.   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may
claim the excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding
and keeping the same and a fee set by motion or resolution of the city council
to reimburse the city for any expense it has had in making the sale at any time
within three (3) months after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved by
the city council, the city treasurer shall pay the owner such excess. If a
claim is not made, the excess shall belong to the city. (2015 Code § 4-137;
amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Adoption: If any dog with a current annual registration certificate
is not reclaimed by its owner within seventy two (72) hours after confinement,
the dog may be adopted by any person following ten (10) consecutive days of
confinement upon payment of boarding fees for the period of confinement. Within
two (2) days from the day of adoption, the person adopting such dog shall
secure a current annual registration for such dog. No unspayed female dog shall
be allowed to be adopted until such prospective owner agrees that such unspayed
female dog shall be spayed before the owner shall seek to secure an annual
registration certificate as required herein. Failure to pay the impounding fee
or failure to secure an annual registration certificate within the two (2) days
allowed shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (2015 Code § 4-136)
   E.   Violations: No unauthorized person shall:
      1.   Break or attempt to break open the animal control shelter or take or
let out any animal therefrom;
      2.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
      3.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this chapter. (2015 Code § 4-132)
6-4-8: ANIMAL HOUSES:
   A.   Construction And Livestock Requirements:
      1.   Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept within the city
shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept
clean and sanitary at all times.
      2.   Every such building housing any livestock or furbearing animals,
including, but not limited to, any horse, mule, donkey, cow, goat or sheep, if
located within two hundred feet (200') of any apartment, house, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious, or hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be
provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as
to hold all accumulations of manure. The receptacle shall be emptied
sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a
nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times except when open during the
deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to
accumulate on such premises except in the receptacle.
      3.   No livestock or swine permitted in city limits except for the Ag.
Barn.
      4.   All persons currently having livestock at the time of the adoption
hereof shall be grandfathered in. (Ord. 191, 5-10-2016)
   B.   Clean And Sanitary Condition: Every structure, stable, pen, coop or
place wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be kept shall be maintained in
a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors. (2015 Code § 4-107)
   C.   Inspections And Enforcement: The health officer, upon complaint by any
person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may
do so on his own initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may
deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
may make a complaint before the municipal judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(2015 Code § 4-108)
6-4-9: TREATMENT AND CARE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Abandonment: It is unlawful for any person to deposit within the city
limits any animal or animals with the intention of abandoning same. (2015 Code
§ 4-140)
   B.   Cruelty:
      1.   It is unlawful to carry out inhumane treatment against any animal.
"Inhumane treatment" is hereby defined to include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Any physical punishment inconsistent with the health of such
animal;
         b.   Lack of food or water for more than a twenty four (24) hour
period;
         c.   Knowingly permitting obvious nutritional deficiencies or other
evident health problems involving any animal;
         d.   Improper use of any collar or harness or a fixed leash for the
purpose of confining any animal which results in flesh lacerations, obvious
pain or to cause choking to such animal;
         e.   Depriving an animal of adequate shelter; or
         f.   Inhumanely killing or attempting to kill any animal.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to set out, dispose of, cause or
permit any animal to be exposed to any drug, chemical or other substance
whatever, in any open place, whether public or private property, when such
substances are poisonous or capable of causing the death or dangerous sickness
of any domestic or household animal.
      3.   Upon conviction of a violation of this subsection B for inhumane
treatment to an animal, it is unlawful for the owner or keeper of such animal
to not release such animal kept in any inhumane condition to an animal control
officer for disposition in accord with the provisions of this chapter. (2015
Code § 4-141)
   C.   Poisoning: It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any dog or
other animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal, or knowingly to expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal. (2015 Code § 4-142)
   D.   Encouraging Fights: It is unlawful for any person to instigate or
encourage a fight between animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue
or annoy another animal except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a
house, pit or other place used for fights between animals. (2015 Code § 4-143)
6-4-10: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Proclamation; Confinement Of Animals:
      1.   When the health officer or chief of police determines and certifies
that a dog, cat, or other animal in the city or within five (5) miles of the
city is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens
the city, the city council, by resolution, may order all dogs to be confined,
and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of time to be
determined by the city council. Such resolution or an adequate notice of its
passage shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city and shall go into effect on the day following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time.
      2.   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution, or for any
dog or cat to be at large in violation thereof. (2015 Code § 4-170)
   B.   Animal That Bites; Quarantine For Observation:
      1.   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the animal control officer and the county
health department. The animal, regardless of its immunization status, shall be
securely quarantined at a veterinary hospital of the owner's choice at the
owner's expense. The animal shall be observed by a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten (10) days, and may not be released until such reasonable
determination has been made that the animal is not infected with rabies, unless
the bite was a severe bite by an unimmunized animal. In circumstances of a
severe bite (bite on the head, face, neck or upper extremities; or deep
laceration; or multiple bite wounds) by an unimmunized animal, the biting
animal shall be humanely killed immediately, without damaging the head, and the
head removed and shipped, under refrigeration, for examination at the Oklahoma
state department of health. If the animal is not immediately available for
testing, the individuals exposed should consult with their physicians
concerning the need for immediate initiation for rabies prophylaxis. If an
owner becomes known, the animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free
of rabies, and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
Signs of rabies in wild animals cannot be interpreted reliably; therefore, any
wild animal that exposes a person should be killed at once (without unnecessary
damage to the head) and the head submitted for examination for evidence of
rabies. (2015 Code § 4-171; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other
practitioner to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
      3.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
animal control officer his diagnosis of any animal observed by him to be a
rabies suspect. (2015 Code § 4-171)
      4.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed by a licensed
veterinarian as being rabid or is suspected of having rabies and dies while
under such observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian, city health
officer, or other designated emissary shall immediately send the necessary part
of such animal to the state health department for pathological examination and
shall notify the proper public health officer of any reports of human contact.
(2015 Code § 4-172)
   C.   Rabies Crisis:
      1.   Declaration Of Crisis: When a report gives a suspected or a positive
diagnosis of rabies, or when the city, county or state health officials feel
that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the health officials may recommend to the
mayor citywide quarantine, and upon the invoking of such quarantine by the city
council, by resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted
to be in the streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and
control of a competent adult. During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or
removed from the city without written permission of the animal control officer.
This declaration must be made by notice in a general circulated newspaper of
the community and will last as long as health officials determine the situation
requires such action. (2015 Code § 4-173; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Destruction Of Animals During Crisis Period:
         a.   During the period of rabies quarantine as mentioned, every animal
bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed or, at
the owner's expense and option, shall be treated for rabies infection by a
licensed veterinarian, or held under six (6) month quarantine by the owner in
the same manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended
from time to time.
         b.   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring during the period of the quarantine, such period of quarantine may be
extended for an additional six (6) months.
         c.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or
scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor remove same from the city
limits without written permission from the city health officer or the animal
control officer.
         d.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon
demand, be surrendered to the animal control officer.
         e.   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any
animal found to be infected with rabies. (2015 Code § 4-174)
   D.   Surrender Of Animals Under Suspect: No person shall remove from the
city any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal which
has bitten a human, except as herein provided. The carcass of any dead animal
exposed to rabies shall be surrendered to the animal control officer upon
demand, and the animal control officer shall direct disposition of the animal.
No person shall refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction
when such demand is lawfully made by the animal control officer. (2015 Code §
4-175)
6-4-11: VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful to own or harbor a vicious animal.
   B.   Court Proceedings: Any dog or other animal alleged to be vicious or
dangerous may be proceeded against in the municipal court, after a complaint
has been duly filed therein by any person having knowledge thereof. If the
court shall find that, at such time:
      1.   The dog or other animal has attacked a person, and
         a.   The person so attacked was not at the time trespassing upon the
property of the owner or person having control of such dog or other animal; or
         b.   It cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the person so
attacked was provoking or teasing such dog or other animal; or
      2.   The dog or other animal is of such vicious and fierce disposition as
to attack human beings without provocation,
then the court shall have the authority to order such dog or other animal kept
muzzled or that such dog or other animal be kept within a sufficient enclosure.
If such dog or other animal has bitten or attacked a human being on other
occasions, the court may order that it be delivered to the animal control
officer and destroyed thereby. (2015 Code § 4-123)
6-4-12: WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, a "wild, exotic or
dangerous animal" means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a
domestic animal and which can normally be found in the wild state, with or
without mean or vicious propensities, including, but not limited to, lions,
tigers, leopards, panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes,
elephants, rhinoceroses, all forms of poisonous or large snakes, including
those considered dangerous such as boas and pythons, lynxes, raccoons, skunks,
monkeys, and other like animals.
   B.   Prohibited; Exemptions: It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild,
exotic or dangerous animal in the city limits as a pet or for display or for
exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in
this section. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks
or zoos, performing animal exhibitions or circuses licensed by the city.
   C.   Permit To Retain: If the owner of a wild, exotic or dangerous animal
can establish to the police department's satisfaction that an animal ordinarily
considered as wild, dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other
animals and that the animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the city
clerk may issue a permit to the owner to keep such animal within the city
limits. The permit shall be renewed annually. The fee shall be set by the city
council. For any animal so permitted as provided in this subsection, the owner
agrees to accept full responsibility for the actions and behavior of such
animal. The establishment of whether such animal is healthy, safe and tame as a
pet shall be the responsibility of the owner of the animal by submitting
written evidence to the police department. No permit shall be granted by the
clerk unless written approval to the evidence submitted by the owner is
submitted to the clerk in advance. (2015 Code § 4-150)
6-4-13: KENNELS, CATTERIES AND PET SHOPS:
   A.   Private Kennels:
      1.   Determination Of Private Kennel; Restriction On Number Of Dogs: Any
person owning, possessing, keeping or harboring, or allowing to be kept or
harbored, three (3) or more animals six (6) months old or older shall be deemed
to be operating a private kennel for such animals. Five (5) is the maximum
number of dogs allowed in a kennel.
      2.   License Required; Fee: No person shall operate a private kennel
without first obtaining an annual license to operate the kennel from the city
for a fee as set by the city.
      3.   Rabies Vaccination Required: A kennel owner must show proof of
rabies vaccination on all animals over four (4) months of age when applying for
a license.
      4.   Inspections: Licensees under this section shall permit the animal
control officer to inspect the premises used as a private kennel. Private
kennels shall be maintained in accordance with the written standards of the
American Humane Society and applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
   B.   Requirements For Kennels, Catteries And Pet Shops: All pet shops,
catteries and kennels shall:
      1.   Maintain records and retain such records for a two (2) year period
on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show
breed, color, markings, sex, age, date and source of the animal, period for
which the animal is maintained, date and disposition of the animal (including
name and address of new owner), and disease prevention or treatment and by
whom;
      2.   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate physical
space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      3.   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary. (2016 Code)
6-4-14: CONFLICTS WITH ZONING ORDINANCE:
In case of conflict between this chapter and the present or any future zoning
ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and supersede
the provisions of this chapter. (2015 Code § 4-160)
6-4-15: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter or
who violates or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by
the health officer pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The penalty provided herein shall be in addition to other
remedies of the city and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as
exclusive. (2015 Code § 4-180; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
6-5-2: Aiding In An Offense
6-5-3: Penalty
6-5-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense and shall be punishable in the manner prescribed for the
attempted offense itself. (2015 Code § 10-101)
6-5-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense or misdemeanor and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2015 Code § 10-102)
6-5-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 10-701)
ARTICLE A.  OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Petit Larceny
6-5A-2: Damage To Property Generally
6-5A-3: Tampering With, Damage To Vehicles
6-5A-4: Tampering With, Damage To Utilities
6-5A-5: Damage To Vegetation Or Public Property; Tampering With Public Ways
6-5A-6: Trespass And Related Offenses
6-5A-7: Advertisements
6-5A-8: Throwing Or Shooting Objects
6-5A-9: Throwing Injurious Substances
6-5A-10: Interference With Fire Hydrants
6-5A-11: Removal Of Barricades
6-5A-1: PETIT LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value
not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth
and with intent to deprive another thereof, but the term does not include the
taking of such property from the "person" of another.
   B.   Prohibited: Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2015 Code § 10-201; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5A-2: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2015 Code § 10-203)
6-5A-3: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2015
Code § 10-202)
6-5A-4: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable the person to consume or use
the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other
way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to
damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other
part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system. (2015
Code § 10-206)
6-5A-5: DAMAGE TO VEGETATION OR PUBLIC PROPERTY; TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the city, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground. Any
person violating this subsection, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. (2015 Code § 10-211)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
      2.   Attach any guywires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the city;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city, or cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or (2015 Code § 10-212)
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city code enforcement officer so to do. Any
such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under the
supervision of the city. (2015 Code § 10-212; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5A-6: TRESPASS AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Trespass:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection A, the following
terms shall be defined as follows:
    PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: a. Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
         b.   Trespass shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner, or the agent or employee of the owner, or other person
in lawful possession of the premises.
         c.   Trespass shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of this definition
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
         d.   Trespass shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this definition.
      2.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private
property. (2015 Code § 10-213)
   B.   Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land Or Structures: It is unlawful for any
person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land within the city
without a license or authority from the owner thereof; or to erect or occupy
thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such license or
authority; or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any street, alley
or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure without
authority of law or ordinance. (2015 Code § 10-207)
   C.   Illegal Entrance: It is illegal for any person to enter upon the
property of another or into an area or structure on such property (whether such
property, area or structure is public or private) when such entrance is plainly
forbidden by signs or any notice or when the property, area or structure is
enclosed, except when such entrance is in the line of duty, or with the express
or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of
law or ordinance. It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of
another after having been given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the
owner or person in charge. (2015 Code § 10-208)
   D.   Parking, Placing Objects On Property Of Another: It is unlawful for any
person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to place any structure or
object on the driveway, yard, or property of another without the express or
tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by authority of law or
ordinance. (2015 Code § 10-214)
6-5A-7: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Depositing Advertisements On Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person
to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be thrown, left or deposited, upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public area, any handbill, circular, or other
advertising matter. (2015 Code § 10-209)
   B.   Posting Advertisements: It is unlawful for any person to place, stick,
tack, paste, post, paint, mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture,
announcement, advertisement, bill, placard, device or inscription upon any
public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile
or other vehicle or other property of another without the consent of the owner
or person in charge thereof. (2015 Code § 10-204)
6-5A-8: THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in cases where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (2015
Code § 10-205)
6-5A-9: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (2015 Code § 10-210)
6-5A-10: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the city
utility personnel or a member of the fire department, to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with any fire
hydrant or stopcock belonging to the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (2015 Code § 10-215)
6-5A-11: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2015 Code § 10-609)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE AND PERSONS
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault And Battery
6-5B-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-5B-3: Insulting Or Profane Signs, Literature Or Language
6-5B-4: Noisy Conditions
6-5B-5: Weapons
6-5B-6: False Alarms
6-5B-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
ASSAULT: Any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
BATTERY: Any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another, or by making any physical contact with another without
consent.
   B.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the jurisdiction of the city. Any person committing an assault
or an assault and battery within the jurisdiction of the city shall be guilty
of an offense. (2015 Code § 10-501)
6-5B-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by doing any
of the following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the
peace of another or others:
   A.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
   B.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
   C.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
   D.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any public
place or in any place where there are present other persons to be offended or
annoyed thereby;
   E.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or not,
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
   F.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
   G.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise; by rude,
indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
   H.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
   I.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by
profane, improper or loud language; or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
   J.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably disturb or
alarm the public. (2015 Code § 10-301)
6-5B-3: INSULTING OR PROFANE SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, within the city, to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which, in its common
acceptance, is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the city and
which is calculated or of which the natural consequence is to cause a breach of
the peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (2015 Code § 10-302)
6-5B-4: NOISY CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or
words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. (2015 Code § 10-308)
6-5B-5: WEAPONS:
   A.   Concealed Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed
upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife,
switchblade knife, spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line of duty or as may
be permitted by law. (2015 Code § 10-305)
   B.   Reckless Conduct While In Possession Of Firearms: It is unlawful for
any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in his possession any
shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of creating a situation of
unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to another, and
demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another person. (2015
Code § 10-306)
   C.   Discharging Weapons:
      1.   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the city except
when doing so in the line of duty; when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person, or of property; or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
      2.   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(2015 Code § 10-307)
6-5B-6: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (2015 Code § 10-607)
ARTICLE C.  OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY AND MORALITY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Prostitution
6-5C-2: Disorderly Houses
6-5C-3: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
6-5C-4: Obscenity
6-5C-5: Gambling
6-5C-6: Harmful Deception
6-5C-7: False Or Bogus Checks
6-5C-8: Swindling
6-5C-9: Vagrancy
6-5C-10: Sleeping In Public
6-5C-11: Begging
6-5C-1: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that it is to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
PROSTITUTION: 1. The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse or lewdness with any
person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or any other thing of
value.
SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing, or
transporting a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution. (2015 Code § 10-405; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      6.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the city limits. (2015 Code § 10-405)
6-5C-2: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Definition: A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by
which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed
by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute; (2015 Code § 10-406)
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages and low point beer; (2015 Code § 10-406; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (2015 Code § 10-406)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining, a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house. No person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (2015 Code §
10-407)
   C.   Residents And Visitors To Disorderly Houses: No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this subsection, the city shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
subsection shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their
professional or official duties. (2015 Code § 10-408)
6-5C-3: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (2015 Code § 10-
409)
6-5C-4: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: That the matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material or
any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
OBSCENE: That, to the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole is to prurient
interest, i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity, or
excretion;
      2.   The matter depicts or describes, in a patently offensive manner,
sexual conduct regulated by 21 Oklahoma Statutes; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hatchecking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waitering and waitressing, and entertaining. (2015 Code § 10-410)
   B.   Obscene Conduct Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
      2.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      3.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         d.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the unlawful acts
listed in this subsection B4.
   C.   Separate Offenses: Each complete or partial display or other material
exhibition of any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense.
   D.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person
has no financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person
is not acting as director or manager of the theater. (2015 Code § 10-411)
6-5C-5: GAMBLING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      1.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette, or
craps, or any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      2.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      3.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      4.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value. (2015 Code § 10-416)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (2015 Code § 10-417)
6-5C-6: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2015 Code § 10-418)
6-5C-7: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money or property
of the value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less by means of any false or
bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or false
coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or orders given for
money or property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing,
issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the
knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with such bank or other
depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is delivered and
accepted. (2015 Code § 10-419; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5C-8: SWINDLING:
It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false presences, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act. (2015 Code § 10-420)
6-5C-9: VAGRANCY:
It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the city limits. For the purposes of this
section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains in or wanders
about a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   A.   Gambling with cards, dice or other gambling paraphernalia;
   B.   Engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution or soliciting for
an act of lewdness;
   C.   Engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any building, property or
automobile of another;
   D.   Injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any property of another;
   E.   Assaulting any person;
   F.   Begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this section shall not apply
to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious, charitable or eleemosynary
organizations with the authorization of such organizations; or
   G.   Selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise exchanging, procuring or
making available illegal drugs or contraband. (2015 Code § 10-412)
6-5C-10: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any person to sleep on any street, in any other public
place, or on any property of another without the express or tacit consent of
the owner or person in charge of such place. (2015 Code § 10-414; amd. 2016
Code)
6-5C-11: BEGGING:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (2015 Code § 10-415)
ARTICLE D.  OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND
TOBACCO
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Public Intoxication
6-5D-2: Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages By Minors
6-5D-3: Additional Prohibitions Regarding Alcoholic Beverages
6-5D-4: Controlled Substances And Paraphernalia
6-5D-5: Display Or Sale Of Tobacco Products
6-5D-1: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street, alley, or
other public place in the City in a state of intoxication. For the purposes of
this section, "a state of intoxication" means the condition in which a person
is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage, or of any narcotic or drug,
to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental
power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others. (Ord. 202, 8-14-
2018)
6-5D-2: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public
street, road or highway or in any public place within the City limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of any
alcoholic beverage.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the term "alcoholic beverage" shall be
as defined in 37A Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 202, 8-14-2018)
6-5D-3: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS REGARDING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful:
   A.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any alcoholic beverage except as permitted by law;
   B.   To have in possession or under control any alcoholic beverage except as
permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey from place to place
in the City any alcoholic beverage except as permitted by law;
   C.   To loiter in a place where any alcoholic beverage is sold, bartered,
given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   D.   To keep, maintain, or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining, a place
where any alcoholic beverage is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise
furnished in violation of law. (Ord. 202, 8-14-2018)
6-5D-4: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" shall have
the meaning ascribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101. "Drug
paraphernalia" shall have the meaning ascribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2-101.1. "Controlled dangerous substance" shall have the meaning ascribed by 63
Oklahoma Statutes sections 2-203 through 2-210.
   B.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
      1.   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana, cannabinoids, any controlled dangerous
substance, cathinones or any synthetic derivatives thereof (commonly referred
to as K2, spice, bath salts, etc.);
      2.   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or deliver, possess or manufacture
any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other person; or
      3.   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the City while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to any marijuana lawfully
obtained or possessed under Oklahoma law and any drug paraphernalia used to
administer or partake of the lawfully obtained marijuana. (Ord. 202, 8-14-2018)
6-5D-5: DISPLAY OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Public Access Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person or
retail store to display or offer for sale tobacco products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco product without assistance from the person
displaying the tobacco product or an employee or the owner of the store. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not
admit into the store persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Sales Through Vending Machines: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell tobacco products through a vending machine unless the vending machine is
located:
      1.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are
not open to the public; and
      2.   In places that are open to the public but to which persons under
eighteen (18) years of age are not admitted.
   C.   Signs Posted: Every person who sells or displays tobacco products at
retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business a
sign, as specified by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission, stating the following: "IT'S THE LAW. WE DO NOT SELL TOBACCO
PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE." The sign shall also provide the
toll free number operated by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission for the purpose of reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth
Access to Tobacco Act. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE E.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Resisting, Assaulting Public Officials
6-5E-2: Assault And/Or Battery Upon Law Enforcement Officials
6-5E-3: Eluding Police
6-5E-4: Refusing To Assist Public Officials
6-5E-5: False Representation To A Public Official; Perjury
6-5E-6: Impersonating A City Officer Or Employee
6-5E-7: Escape, Attempt To Escape
6-5E-8: Rescuing Prisoners; Aid In Escape
6-5E-1: RESISTING, ASSAULTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
   A.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
   B.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
   C.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or use abusive
or indecent language toward or about any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (2015 Code §
10-610)
6-5E-2: ASSAULT AND/OR BATTERY UPON LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (2015 Code § 10-603)
6-5E-3: ELUDING POLICE:
It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police car, directing the
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, and who wilfully increases his speed
or extinguishes his lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, or who
does elude such police officer. (2015 Code § 10-611)
6-5E-4: REFUSING TO ASSIST PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing or about
to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the ordinances of the
city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to suppress a riot,
affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon any person or persons to assist him
in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such riot, affray
or unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon to
assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (2015 Code § 10-602)
6-5E-5: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO A PUBLIC OFFICIAL; PERJURY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (2015 Code § 10-608)
6-5E-6: IMPERSONATING A CITY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (2015
Code § 10-606)
6-5E-7: ESCAPE, ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE:
It is unlawful for any person confined in the city jail or other place of
confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody. (2015 Code § 10-605)
6-5E-8: RESCUING PRISONERS; AID IN ESCAPE:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty or
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners from any
officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the same or from the
city jail or other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (2015 Code § 10-
604)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL EVENTS
ARTICLE A.  EVENTS WITH NO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
6-6A-1: Permit Required
6-6A-2: Application For Permit
6-6A-3: Permit Fee
6-6A-4: Investigations And Inspections
6-6A-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
6-6A-6: Separate Permits Required
6-6A-7: Renewal, Replacement Of Permit
6-6A-8: Expiration Of Permit
6-6A-9: Nontransferability Of Permit
6-6A-10: Display Of Permit
6-6A-11: Operation Regulations
6-6A-12: Unlawful Acts
6-6A-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
6-6A-14: Citation; Bond Amount
6-6A-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall constitute a nuisance and be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, association, partnership or joint venture, without a preapproved
event permit as authorized and issued by the city, to maintain, operate or
manage within the corporate limits of the city any private or public event that
would or does disturb the peace by the causing or creation of loud noise that
is audible beyond the property line, whether either public or private property,
where the event is held. Loud noise may be described as, but is not limited to,
those provisions set forth in sections
6-5B-2 and
6-5B-4 of this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an adult possessing an
event permit to manage the event or to serve as supervisory personnel. (2016
Code)
6-6A-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for a special event permit shall be made to the city clerk
and shall be made available to the mayor or city council. The application must
include the following:
      1.   The name of the owner of the real estate, fixtures for which the
permit is to be issued and the description of the real estate's location.
      2.   If the applicant is not the owner of the real estate and fixtures, a
copy of the lease or other arrangement under which the applicant holds
possession thereof.
      3.   The full name, age and contact information of the responsible
person, or if the applicant is an association, partnership, joint venture or
corporation, the information concerning the person responsible for the event.
      4.   Other information as the city shall find reasonably necessary to
enforce the provisions of this article and to make a fair determination of the
moral qualifications of the applicant, principal backers, managers and
supervisory personnel.
   B.   Every application for an event permit shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application fee as set by motion or resolution of the city
council.
   C.   Applicants for all event permits within the city shall execute an
agreement that the premises covered by the application may be inspected by any
officer of the city police department at any time the premises is occupied.
Failure or refusal to permit immediate inspection of the premises of each
facility shall constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of a permit
issued hereunder.
   D.   In addition, an application for an event permit shall be made to the
city clerk on forms prepared and made available by the city and shall provide
the following:
      1.   The applicant's full name, date of birth, citizenship and personal
description;
      2.   A statement of any arrests or convictions;
      3.   The applicant's address and state issued identification number;
      4.   The employer's signature verifying the employment of the applicant;
      5.   A signed affidavit that the applicant has not made any untruthful
statements nor omitted any requested information; and
      6.   Other information as the city deems necessary to enforce the
provisions of this article and to make a determination of the fitness and moral
qualifications of the applicant. (2016 Code)
6-6A-3: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee is set by motion or resolution of the city council. (2016 Code)
6-6A-4: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of an application for an event
permit, the city clerk shall forward the same to the chief of police who shall
promptly cause an investigation to be made of the applicant and all persons
named in the application.
   B.   Inspection Of Facilities: No permit shall be issued until it shall be
found by inspection that the facility complies with and conforms to all
sections of this article and other ordinances and health and fire regulations
of the city, that it is properly ventilated and supplied with sufficient
restroom conveniences and adequate trash collection, that it is adequately
lighted and is a safe and proper place for the purpose for which it is used.
(2016 Code)
6-6A-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance:
      1.   The mayor shall authorize the issuance of a permit when he or she
finds, after investigation that:
         a.   All persons named on the application are adults, and
            (1)   Have not been convicted of any felony unless the person has
received a full pardon; and
            (2)   Have not been convicted of a misdemeanor concerning
prostitution, gambling, larceny, embezzlement, drugs, marijuana, assault and
battery, domestic abuse, any offense resulting in recordation as a convicted
sex offender, contributing to the delinquency of a minor, causing a juvenile to
come within the purview of the juvenile court, or any crime concerning this
article unless five (5) years have passed since the last conviction;
         b.   The manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the event
does not violate any provisions of the statutes and regulations of the state
nor the ordinances of the city; and
         c.   No person named on the application holds a federal gambling tax
stamp.
      2.   A misstatement of material fact made in any application shall be
grounds for denial of issuance of the permit and revocation of any permit
issued hereunder.
   B.   Denial; Appeals:
      1.   Denial: The mayor shall act upon the application for the permit
within fifteen (15) days after the filing thereof. If the mayor denies the
application, he or she shall notify the applicant in writing within five (5)
days after the denial, giving the reasons for the denial.
      2.   Appeals: Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or
joint venture whose application for a permit is denied shall have the right to
appeal to the city council. Notice of the appeal stating the grounds therefor
shall be filed with the city clerk within five (5) days after receipt of the
notice of denial. At its next available meeting, the city council shall hold a
public hearing upon the appeal, at which hearing the applicant, the mayor, and
other interested parties may present evidence. The city council shall affirm or
reverse the denial of the permit. (2016 Code)
6-6A-6: SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED:
A separate permit must be obtained for each branch establishment of any event,
and each permit shall authorize the operation of the facility only at the
location described in the permit. (2016 Code)
6-6A-7: RENEWAL, REPLACEMENT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Renewal: Upon the expiration of a permit issued hereunder, and upon
payment of the permit fee, the mayor shall issue a renewal permit to those
whose permits have not been revoked and who have complied with the provisions
of this article. No permit shall be renewed which is more than sixty (60) days
past its expiration date. Any permittee whose application for renewal is made
more than sixty (60) days following the expiration date of the permit must
reapply as a new applicant.
   B.   Replacement: In the event of loss of the permit, a replacement permit
shall be issued to the permittee by the mayor upon payment by the permittee of
a fee as set by motion or resolution of the city council. The replacement
permit shall be valid for the unexpired period of the original permit. (2016
Code)
6-6A-8: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
A permit issued hereunder shall expire two (2) weeks from the issue date. (2016
Code)
6-6A-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
Permits shall not be transferable. (2016 Code)
6-6A-10: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
   A.   Every event issued a permit hereunder shall place and exhibit the
permit at all times while the permit is in force in a conspicuous place upon
the premises.
   B.   Every person issued a permit, while on duty, shall have the permit on
his or her person or within the premises, and shall present the permit upon
demand by any enforcement officer. (2016 Code)
6-6A-11: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   If the event is to be located immediately adjacent to an adult
recreation center or licensed tavern, the establishments shall be separated by
a sightproof physical barrier running from floor to ceiling of both
establishments. There shall be no means of ingress and egress between the event
location and the adult recreation center or tavern. Should fire safety
requirements provide for emergency exits, they shall be constructed in a manner
to prevent unrestricted access between the establishments. Failure to construct
a barrier shall constitute an offense under this article.
   B.   It shall be an offense and grounds for the revocation or suspension of
the permit issued hereunder for any event operator, manager or person having
supervisory control thereof or employee to do or permit to be done any of the
following:
      1.   Violate any of the provisions of this article.
      2.   Violate any of the statutes of the state.
      3.   Operate or be open for operation during hours other than the
following; provided, however, that on any day preceding a day when city public
schools are not in session, closing hours are extended to twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight:
         a.   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.;
         b.   Friday from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight;
         c.   Saturday from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight; and
         d.   Sunday from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M.
      4.   Permit any person who is not an employee to be or remain on the
premises or in that portion of the premises wherein the recreation activities
take place more than fifteen (15) minutes after closing time.
      5.   Operate without having at least one person possessing an event
permit present on the premises during hours of operation.
      6.   Permit on the premises any alcoholic beverage or low point beer or
intoxicated person.
      7.   Permit on the premises any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years during a public school day prior to three o'clock (3:00) P.M., except
when accompanied by a parent or legal guardian or as part of a recognized
school sponsored activity. (2016 Code)
6-6A-12: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to work in the capacity of a
manager, operator or person having supervisory control over the premises
without possessing a valid permit issued by the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to work in an event in a capacity
which requires a permit and fail to display the required permit upon demand by
any enforcement officer.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess any false or
falsified permit issued or purporting on its face to have been issued under the
provisions of this article.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, reproduce, or falsify a
permit issued or purporting on its face to have been issued under the
provisions of this article or to give, lend, sell or otherwise provide to any
person an altered, reproduced or falsified permit.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to give, lend, sell or otherwise
provide the permit to any other person, or for any person not the lawful holder
of the permit to use or represent the same to be his or her own. (2016 Code)
6-6A-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The mayor may suspend, for not more than fifteen (15) days, or may
revoke a permit issued hereunder, if, after notice and hearing as herein
provided, the mayor finds that the holder of the permit has made a material
misstatement in the application or the renewal thereof, or that any manager,
operator or supervisory personnel have violated any of the provisions of this
article, or have been convicted of any of the offenses set forth.
   B.   The chief of police shall investigate complaints concerning events, and
if he or she finds that a violation of the provisions hereof has been
committed, he or she shall file a complaint with the mayor setting forth the
alleged violation. Upon the filing of a complaint, the mayor shall fix a date
for hearing of the complaint and shall cause to be served upon the permittee a
copy of the complaint and notice of the time and place of the hearing. The
complaint and notice of hearing shall be served upon the copartner, manager,
operator or person having supervisory control over the premises of the event,
or if the person cannot be found, by mailing the same by registered mail
addressed to the person at the licensed premises.
   C.   The mayor shall conduct a hearing on the complaint no less than five
(5) nor more than twenty (20) days after service of the complaint. At the
hearing, the complainant, the permittee or any interested person may be present
and present the evidence as may be relevant and material. If, at the conclusion
of the hearing, the mayor finds the permittee has made a material misstatement
in the application for a permit, or has violated any of the provisions of this
article, the mayor shall suspend, for not more than fifteen (15) days, or
revoke the permit issued hereunder.
   D.   Under suspension or revocation, the permittee shall immediately cease
operation of the event, secure the permitted premises and bar the public
therefrom, and the permittee shall immediately surrender his or her permit to
the mayor. (2016 Code)
6-6A-14: CITATION; BOND AMOUNT:
Any violation of this article may result in a citation being issued, for each
separate offense, to the person(s) committing the offense plus the person(s)
named in the permit application. The citation(s) shall be filed in the
municipal court for the city with a bond amount as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE B.  EVENTS SERVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Permit Required; Fee
6-6B-2: Qualified Permittees; Authorized Sales; Permit Not In Lieu Of Alcoholic
Beverage Or Low Point Beer License
6-6B-3: Term Of Permit
6-6B-4: Days And Hours; Changes
6-6B-5: Location
6-6B-6: Citation; Bond Amount
6-6B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No person shall operate a special event where alcoholic beverages and/
or low point beer is sold without first obtaining a permit.
   B.   Persons required to obtain a special event permit pursuant to the
provision of this article shall pay to the city a fee as set by motion or
resolution of the city council. (2016 Code)
6-6B-2: QUALIFIED PERMITTEES; AUTHORIZED SALES; PERMIT NOT IN LIEU OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE OR LOW POINT BEER LICENSE:
   A.   A special event permit may be issued to an organization, association,
or nonprofit corporation organized for political, fraternal, charitable,
religious or social purposes.
   B.   The holder of the special event license is authorized to sell and
distribute alcoholic beverages and low point beer for consumption on the
premises for which the license is issued.
   C.   A special event license issued to the applicant by the Oklahoma ABLE
commission must be presented with the application for the special event permit.
   D.   A permit issued under the provisions of this article shall not be
deemed to be in lieu of nor as a substitute for a license or permit issued for
the operation of a tavern or other establishment where alcohol is served and/or
consumed. (2016 Code)
6-6B-3: TERM OF PERMIT:
An event permit shall be valid for a period of one calendar week and shall
authorize the holder to hold one event during the one week period. (2016 Code)
6-6B-4: DAYS AND HOURS; CHANGES:
   A.   A special event beverage permit may be used on the approved date
beginning at eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., daily, except Sundays.
   B.   The special event permit shall be used for the events specifically
noted in the application. Changes in the date(s) of any event must be submitted
to the mayor not less than ten (10) days before the event is held. (2016 Code)
6-6B-5: LOCATION:
The designated area of the special event permit must be within an enclosed
structure. Otherwise, approval must be granted by the city council. (2016 Code)
6-6B-6: CITATION; BOND AMOUNT:
Any violation of this article may result in a citation being issued, for each
separate offense, to the person(s) committing the offense plus the person(s)
named in the permit application. The citation(s) shall be filed in the
municipal court for the city, with a bond amount as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MINORS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Curfew Regulations
6-7-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted to amusement
or entertainment of the general public. The term shall also include the front
or immediate area of the above. (2015 Code § 10-413)
   B.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any minor to remain,
wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a
set designation in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the city
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the
following day, Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight Friday and Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following
day; and it also shall be unlawful for any minor to remain or loiter about the
Oilton City Park from dusk to dawn unless: (2016 Code)
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   Permitting Minors On Premises: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section.
   D.   Responsibility Of Parents And Guardians; Exceptions: It is unlawful for
any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control
of any minor to suffer or permit or, by inefficient control, allow such person
to be on any public place in the city between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section. The provisions of this subsection do not apply
if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or (2015 Code § 10-413)
      3.   The parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person has made a
missing person notification to the city police department. (2015 Code § 10-413;
amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Powers Of City Council: The city council may permit, by resolution or
motion, procedures for advance notice or registration with the city of special
events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other
organizations which require minors to be out at a later time. The city council
may also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors found in
violation of this section. (2015 Code § 10-413)
   F.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section is punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 10-701)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definition
6-8-2: Purchase And Sale Prohibited
6-8-3: Use Or Discharge Restricted
6-8-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "fireworks" shall have the meaning prescribed
by 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622. (2016 Code)
6-8-2: PURCHASE AND SALE PROHIBITED:
The purchase and sale of fireworks within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby prohibited. (2016 Code)
6-8-3: USE OR DISCHARGE RESTRICTED:
   A.   The use or discharge of fireworks within the corporate limits of the
city is hereby prohibited, except as follows:
      1.   July 1, 2, and 3 of each year between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   July 4 of each year between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and January 1 of each year between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M.
the following day.
   B.   The police chief or fire chief may prohibit the use and discharge of
fireworks during the times stated in subsection A of this section based upon
potential fire danger or other hazards present at the time. State laws and the
city fire code shall be fully applicable in the city and enforceable as
offenses against the city. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
6-9-1: Intent
6-9-2: Prohibited Acts
6-9-3: Exemptions
6-9-4: Fair Housing Council
6-9-5: Complaint Procedure
6-9-6: Violation; Penalty
6-9-1: INTENT:
The general intention of the city in providing for the passage of this chapter
is as follows:
   A.   To secure for all residents of the city equal access to housing in all
neighborhoods and areas of the city; and
   B.   To preserve the public welfare and to provide for the preservation of
public peace, health and safety. (2015 Code § 5-901)
6-9-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association to commit any
of the following acts:
   A.   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title
or other interest in any housing or real property upon which residential
housing is to be constructed to any person or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit
because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
   B.   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing
of any residential property, or to represent that such property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, because of such person's race, color, sex, religion or national
origin;
   C.   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person
owning any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease or not to
sell, rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of value
due to the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of another race, color, sex, religion, or national origin, either by
direct solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed, material or make statements designed to induce a residential
property owner to sell or lease his property due to such change in the
neighborhood; or
   D.   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with
knowledge that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such
complaint for the sole purpose of harassment. (2015 Code § 5-902)
6-9-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing contained herein shall apply to the following:
   A.   To prohibit persons from giving preference to prospective buyers or
tenants for reasons other than race, color, religion, or national origin;
   B.   To the sale of a dwelling which is, or was at the time when first
offered for sale, the principal residence of its owner;
   C.   To the rental of rooms in an owner occupied residence or in a dwelling
used exclusively as a rooming house;
   D.   To the rental or leasing of a housing unit in a building containing
less than four (4) housing units; or
   E.   To the rental or leasing of a dwelling or housing unit owned by a
religious or fraternal organization or private club used and occupied for such
organizational purposes. (2015 Code § 5-903)
6-9-4: FAIR HOUSING COUNCIL:
   A.   Council Created: There is hereby created a fair housing council of the
city, hereinafter referred to as "council", composed of the members of the city
council. All appointments to the council shall be the same as and run
concurrently with the term of office of the city council. (2015 Code § 5-904)
   B.   Powers: The powers of the fair housing council shall be as follows:
      1.   To prescribe such rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary
or expedient for the conduct and carrying out of its functions and to revoke,
suspend, or amend any rule or regulation as administered by the council,
regardless of the manner in which prescribed;
      2.   Seek settlement and disposition of any complaint filed with the
council by means of conferences and conciliation;
      3.   As to investigation:
         a.   Either by itself or by any officer or person designated for the
purposes thereby, to investigate and to examine or inquire into the affairs or
operation of any person, firm, corporation or association within its
jurisdiction; and further, when so authorized by the city council, to employ
consultants and professional counsel to aid in such investigations,
examinations or inquiries;
         b.   For the purposes of gathering evidence on any subject, to
subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers, and other effects; and
      4.   Have the authority to initiate in its name, or to receive and
initiate upon the filing of formal charges, complaints against any person,
firm, corporation or association violating any of the provisions of this
chapter. (2015 Code § 5-905)
6-9-5: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Complaint Filed: Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice
prohibited by this chapter may file with the fair housing council a complaint
in writing under oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to
be aggrieved and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the council. Complaints filed under this section must be filed
within thirty (30) days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within
the time shall be considered a waiver of the application of this section. The
council may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any time it is within
the knowledge of the council that a person has violated any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Investigation: The council shall investigate each complaint filed
therewith, and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of
conference and conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose
of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon determination that a
complaint is not well founded, the council shall dismiss the complaint and
notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the
council takes no action within ninety (90) days of the filing of the complaint,
it shall be considered as dismissed. (2015 Code § 5-906)
   C.   Notices:
      1.   Complaint: If the council is unsuccessful by means of conference or
conciliation in securing compliance with this chapter by any person, firm,
corporation or association against which a complaint has been filed, then a
notice in writing shall be served upon the person complained against
(hereinafter referred to as the "respondent"), notifying the respondent of the
alleged violation of the provisions of this chapter and requesting that the
respondent answer charges of the complaint at a hearing before the council.
      2.   Hearing:
         a.   The council shall give notice of any such hearing at least ten
(10) days before the date and time for which such hearing has been set.
         b.   The notice shall contain the request for the respondent to appear
at a hearing for the purposes of determining whether or not a violation of this
chapter has been committed, which hearing shall be held at a certain time and
place which shall be specified in the notice. The notice shall advise the
respondent that upon failure to comply with the notice, the respondent shall be
considered to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Service Of Notices: Any and all notices required under the
provisions of this subsection C may be served personally on any person
complained against, or by mailing a copy thereof, by certified registered mail,
with return receipt requested, to the most current business or residential
address of the person.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   At any hearing, as provided herein, the complaint shall be heard by
the council. At the hearing, the respondent, person, firm, corporation, or
association shall appear either in person or by counsel and shall be required
to file a written answer to the complaint. The complainant or person aggrieved
by the actions of the person, firm, corporation or association may also appear
in person or by counsel at the hearing. The council will then proceed to hold a
hearing to determine whether the respondent has committed an act in violation
of the provisions of this chapter and which act is detrimental to the health,
benefit and welfare of the public, the community, and the citizens of the city.
      2.   The council, when conducting any hearing, shall permit both the
person aggrieved and the respondent to introduce any such witnesses, evidence,
testimony, or exhibits as either party deems necessary and prudent. Further,
the council may, at such time, permit amendments to any written complaint or
answer as filed with the council, and all testimony taken at the hearing shall
be under oath. Either party represented at the hearing shall have the right to
request that the testimony be transcribed or the testimony shall be transcribed
at the direction of the council:
         a.   If the council finds at any such hearing that the respondent has
engaged in discriminatory practices as prohibited by this chapter, it shall
state its findings of fact in written report form and forward the report to the
city attorney for appropriate action; or
         b.   If the council, upon hearing, finds that the respondent has not
engaged in any discriminatory practices as prohibited herein, it shall so state
its findings in written form, and further, shall issue and file an order
dismissing the complaint.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: The council shall have the authority and right
to promulgate such rules and regulations that shall govern, expedite, and
assist the foregoing procedures as it deems necessary. It shall further
maintain all files as provided herein. (2015 Code § 5-907)
6-9-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity which shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or fail to comply herewith or with any of the
requirements hereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 5-908)
CHAPTER 10
UNCLAIMED, SEIZED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-10-1: Custodian Of Property
6-10-2: Record Requirements
6-10-3: Disposition Of Unclaimed Property
6-10-4: Property Found By Private Person
6-10-5: Recovery By Owner
6-10-1: CUSTODIAN OF PROPERTY:
All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the chief
of police. (2015 Code § 13-501)
6-10-2: RECORD REQUIREMENTS:
The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a
record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and circumstances of
the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was taken and the
place where it was found. The record shall also disclose the subsequent
disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the purchaser,
and the amount for which it was sold. (2015 Code § 13-501)
6-10-3: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the chief of police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him satisfactorily established, for a period of more than thirty (30) days,
shall be sold or disposed of in the manner required by law, except such
personal property as, in the opinion of the mayor, can be more advantageously
used by some department or office of the city government. (2015 Code § 13-502)
6-10-4: PROPERTY FOUND BY PRIVATE PERSON:
Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him, and
a record of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return
of the property to him within such additional ten (10) days, then the chief of
police shall sell the property in the manner required by law as if it had been
found by a public official or employee or, on instruction by the mayor, deliver
it to some department or office of the city government for its use. (2015 Code
§ 13-503; amd. 2016 Code)
6-10-5: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the city council. (2015 Code § 13-504)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Scope
7-1-2: State Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-3: Definitions
7-1-4: Application Of Provisions
7-1-5: Driver And Vehicle Licenses Required
7-1-6: Insurance Requirements And Exemptions
7-1-7: Accidents
7-1-8: Improvements On Public Ways; Street Closures
7-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title shall apply to every street, highway, alley,
roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, and every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the city, the use of which the city
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   B.   Those upon land owned by the city;
   C.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the city;
   D.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the city. (2015 Code § 15-102)
7-1-2: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-101 et
seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. (2015 Code § 15-126)
7-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section. However, for any words
and phrases used in this title which are not defined in this section but are
defined in the laws of the state regulating traffic, the definitions in the
laws of the state shall be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used in
this title.
ALLEY: A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) or three (3) tandem wheels, any of which is more than twenty
inches (20") in diameter.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of fire departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets or highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Any officer of the city police department or any other officer
authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, stop or
stopping means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (2015 Code § 15-101; amd.
2016 Code)
7-1-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Carts, Animals And Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person propelling any
pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any
animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those provisions of this title
which by their very nature can have no application. (2015 Code § 15-111)
   B.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of this title shall not
apply to a driver of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm. The
exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only
when the driver of the vehicle, while in motion, sounds audible signal by bell,
siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle
is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front of the vehicle; except, that an authorized emergency vehicle operated
as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible
from in front of the vehicle. This subsection shall not relieve the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall this subsection protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2015 Code §
15-113)
7-1-5: DRIVER AND VEHICLE LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Driver's License: It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver's license as required by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the
state highways to operate a motor vehicle within the city, or to operate a
motor vehicle within the city in violation of any restriction applied to the
driver's license. (2015 Code § 15-202)
   B.   Vehicle License:
      1.   No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of the
city any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon. (2015 Code § 15-203)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing
a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
city. (2015 Code § 15-204)
7-1-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in conjunction
with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-600 et seq.
OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma. (2015 Code § 15-127; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Proof Of Insurance Required:
      1.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the city's boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
tines a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been issued by the state department of public safety,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
      2.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry
either an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a
carrier, provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an
equivalent form issued by the department of public safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the department
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued by
the interstate commerce commission or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer. (2015 Code §
15-127)
   D.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Violation; Penalty: An owner or operator who fails to produce for
inspection a valid and current security verification form or equivalent form
which has been issued by the department upon request of any city police officer
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 15-127; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Suspended Sentence: A sentence imposed for any violation of this
section may be suspended or deferred, in whole or in part, by the court.
      3.   Dismissal Of Charge: Any person producing proof in court that a
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force
at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such
charge.
      4.   Court Action: Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of
sentence, the court clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of
public safety within ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(2015 Code § 15-127)
7-1-7: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Driver: The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or
property shall immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or
as close thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident
until he has given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and
shall, upon request, exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle with which collided, and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons
to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is
apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the
injured person. Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more
than is necessary.
   B.   Report Requirements: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to
a police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes a written
report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of
the requirements of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 15-118)
7-1-8: IMPROVEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS; STREET CLOSURES:
   A.   City employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the city, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving, or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the city council, to close any
street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. This subsection shall not apply to persons while
engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to persons entering
therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their places of
residence or places of business within the closed area may travel, when
possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flaggers, or other traffic control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area. (2015 Code § 15-112)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Presumption Of Legality Of Devices
7-2-2: Ratification Of Existing Devices
7-2-3: Effect Of Traffic Signs For Enforcement Purposes
7-2-4: Obedience To Devices
7-2-5: Interference With, Damage To Devices
7-2-6: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-2-7: Flashing Signals
7-2-1: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY OF DEVICES:
   A.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (2015
Code § 15-304)
7-2-2: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES:
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the effective date hereof and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic control devices, provided such traffic control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law. (2015 Code § 15-
305)
7-2-3: EFFECT OF TRAFFIC SIGNS FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (2015 Code § 15-302)
7-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this title unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (2015 Code § 15-301)
7-2-5: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (2015 Code § 15-303)
7-2-6: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall indicate
appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as provided
by applicable state law. (2015 Code § 15-306)
7-2-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   Flashing red (stop signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
      2.   Flashing yellow (caution signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (2015 Code §
15-307)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Operation Of Vehicles Generally
7-3-2: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-3-3: Right Of Way
7-3-4: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-3-5: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-3-6: Speed Restrictions
7-3-7: Drive On Right; Exceptions
7-3-8: Driving Within Traffic Lanes
7-3-9: Turning Movements
7-3-10: Restrictions On Driving
7-3-11: Railroad Crossings
7-3-12: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-3-13: Reckless Driving
7-3-14: Driving Under The Influence
7-3-1: OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY:
Every person operating a vehicle in the city shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
city and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others. (2015 Code § 15-201)
7-3-2: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Upon
the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible
and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state, or of a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (2015 Code § 15-114)
   B.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (2015 Code § 15-115)
   C.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire
department official in command. (2015 Code § 15-116)
7-3-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Generally: The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall
yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a
different street; provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is
not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or
federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from
different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right. (2015 Code §
15-208)
   B.   Vehicle Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close
thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded
and having given a signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such
left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
from such opposite direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making
the left turn. (2015 Code § 15-209)
   C.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or
onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall
yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision
and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway. (2015 Code § 15-215)
7-3-4: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets:
      1.   Designation: The mayor may designate any street or part of a street
a through street. (2015 Code § 15-310)
      2.   Signs Posted: Whenever a through street is designated by the mayor,
the appropriate city personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop
sign or, on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any
intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through
street unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals. (2015 Code § 15-311)
   B.   Procedures At Stop Intersections:
      1.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (2015 Code § 15-312)
   C.   Procedures At Yield Signs:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop lines, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway.
      2.   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right of way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      3.   The driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield the right of way. (2015 Code § 15-313)
7-3-5: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Signs Posted: Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the city
designates any one-way street or alley, the appropriate city personnel shall
place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be
effective unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   B.   Operation Of Vehicle On One-Way Streets And Alleys: Upon those streets
and parts of streets and in those alleys designated as one-way streets or
alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited. (2015 Code
§ 15-309)
7-3-6: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   General Rule:
      1.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring the vehicle to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of subsection A1 of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions. (2015 Code § 15-220)
   B.   Maximum Speed Limit: No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically
authorized by this title, shall be driven at a speed greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour upon any street within the city. The city council may
determine that certain other speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared
when signs are in place giving notice thereof. (2015 Code § 15-221)
7-3-7: DRIVE ON RIGHT; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (2015 Code § 15-207)
7-3-8: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is, at the time, allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (2015 Code § 15-308)
7-3-9: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway; or
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection, and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable,
the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of
the center of the intersection. (2015 Code § 15-250)
   B.   Designation Of Restricted Turns:
      1.   The city council may determine those intersections at which drivers
of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place proper
signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns
are permitted.
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (2015 Code § 15-251)
   C.   Signaling For Turns:
      1.   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon
giving a signal of intention, as provided in this subsection C, in the event
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      3.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to
give such signal. (2015 Code § 15-252)
7-3-10: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other
traffic. (2015 Code § 15-213)
   B.   Driving On Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within
any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (2015 Code § 15-
212)
   C.   Driving Through Service Drives Or Parking Facilities:
      1.   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon
any parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of
the services offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking
facility.
      2.   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening his travel distance,
avoiding a traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive. (2015 Code § 15-214)
   D.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be made in
safety. (2015 Code § 15-206)
   E.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of
a motor vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than
necessary to load or unload passengers. (2015 Code § 15-107)
7-3-11: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing in the
city, the driver of such vehicle shall bring such vehicle to a stop not less
than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad track, and while
so stopped, shall both look and listen in both directions along such track for
approaching railway traffic, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
The requirements of this section shall apply when:
   A.   A train approaching within approximately one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the grade crossing emits a signal audible from such distance, and
such train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
   B.   An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity
to such crossing; or
   C.   A stop sign has been erected at any such crossing. (2015 Code § 15-314)
7-3-12: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (2015 Code § 15-108)
   B.   Unlawful Riding: No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This subsection
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (2015
Code § 15-109)
7-3-13: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the city. Reckless driving
shall include driving a motor vehicle in wilful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous rate of speed.
(2015 Code § 15-210; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-14: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcoholic
beverages or low point beer to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control
of any motor vehicle within the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to consumption of
alcoholic beverages or low point beer. (2015 Code § 15-211; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, or marijuana, or who
is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him
incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle, to drive a motor vehicle within
the city. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection
is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate,
amphetamine, marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against
any charge of violating this subsection. (2015 Code § 15-211)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Method Of Parking
7-4-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Areas
7-4-3: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-4: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-4-5: Loading Zones
7-4-6: Violations; Prima Facie Proof
7-4-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall
be so stopped or parked in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of
the curb or roadway edge. (2015 Code § 15-232)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Streets Designated: The city council may determine upon what streets
angle parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the
streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street. "Angle parking", for the purpose of this subsection B, shall
mean parking at the curb at approximately a forty five degree (45°) angle
between the right side of the vehicle and the curb. (2015 Code § 15-233)
      2.   Parking Rules:
         a.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front
of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
         b.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length or positioned in a manner as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street. (2015 Code § 15-234)
   C.   Park Within Indicated Space: In an area where parking spaces have been
marked on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park
within a parking space as thus marked, and not on or over a line delineating a
space. (2015 Code § 15-231)
7-4-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED AREAS:
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, no person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      6.   On any railroad tracks; or
      7.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within ten feet (10') of a crosswalk at an intersection, except in
marked parking spaces;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station; or
      6.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing. (2015 Code §
15-235)
7-4-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Width Of Roadway: No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon
a street or alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Obstructing Traffic Or Driveways: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property. (2015 Code § 15-230)
   C.   Selling Merchandise From Parked Vehicle: It is unlawful for any person
to park any vehicle upon a street in the city and offer merchandise for sale
therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided in this title, the sale of
merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the city is declared to be
dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around the vehicle and
constitutes a public nuisance. (2015 Code § 15-238)
7-4-4: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any parking
space on private property accessible to the public and where the public is
invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area for
parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such person
has a physical disability insignia as set out in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in said section 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 15-240)
7-4-5: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designation; Signs Posted: The city council may determine the location
of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this subsection are applicable. (2015 Code § 15-236)
   B.   Standing In Loading Zones:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
      3.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone. (2015 Code § 15-237)
7-4-6: VIOLATIONS; PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or regulation, together
with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of the
parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person
who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, the violation occurred. The presumption in this section shall apply only
when the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed. (2015 Code
§ 15-239)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Compliance With State Law
7-5-2: Engine Compression Brakes
7-5-3: Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints
7-5-4: Size, Weight And Load
7-5-5: Securing Loads
7-5-6: Inspection Of Vehicles
7-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the city which is not equipped as
required by law;
   B.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it
in a manner prohibited by law; or
   C.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a street
in the city. (2015 Code § 15-103)
7-5-2: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Definition: An "engine compression brake device" (commonly referred to
as jake brakes, jacob's brake, engine brake, compression brake, or dynamic
compression brake) means a device primarily on trucks for the conversion of the
engine from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose
of reducing vehicle speed without the use of wheel brakes.
   B.   Prohibited; Exception: No person shall use or operate any vehicle
within the city limits with an engine compression braking device engaged or
activated. Provided, that such prohibition shall not apply if an emergency
situation exists and the use of engine compression brakes is necessary for the
protection of persons or property. Failure to timely apply wheel braking
devices shall not be construed as the creation of an emergency situation. (2016
Code)
7-5-3: SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS:
   A.   Seat Belts:
      1.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated
in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt
system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purposes of this
section, "passenger car" shall mean "vehicle" as defined in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-103.1; except, that "passenger car" shall not include
trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized
bicycles. "Passenger car" shall not include a vehicle used primarily for farm
use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the provisions of state
statute.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger, for medical
reasons, is unable to wear a safety belt system supported by written
attestation of such fact from a physician. This exemption shall be in the form
of a restriction appearing on the driver's license of the person and shall
remain in effect until the expiration date of the driver's license.
      3.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
      4.   Fine and court costs for violating the provisions in this section
shall not exceed twenty dollars ($20.00).
   B.   Child Passenger Restraints:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age
in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this
state, shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system as follows:
         a.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in
a child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall
be rear facing until the child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child
reaches the weight or height limit of the rear facing child passenger restraint
system as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
         b.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8)
years of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height, shall
be properly secured in either a child passenger restraint system or child
booster seat.
         c.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than four feet
nine inches (4'9") in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall
be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
For purposes of this section and state statute, "child passenger restraint
system" means an infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the
federal standards as set by 49 CFR, section 571.213.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         b.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         c.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         d.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
         e.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40)
pounds and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing
only a lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
paragraph, back seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a
vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight
requirements of this paragraph if at the request of any law enforcement
officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a
written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child
weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
   C.   Violation; Civil Action: A violation of the provisions of this section
shall be admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages
unless the plaintiff in such action or proceeding is a child under sixteen (16)
years of age. In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of
damages. (Ord. 194, 8-9-2016)
7-5-4: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: No person shall drive on or convey through
any street any vehicle the width, height, length, weight, or load of which
exceeds that authorized by state law, except in accordance with a permit issued
by state authority or by the city chief of police.
   B.   Vehicles Exceeding Twenty Five Thousand Pounds:
      1.   No vehicle with a gross vehicle weight exceeding twenty five
thousand (25,000) pounds shall be operated upon the streets, alleys and other
public ways within the city except on state highways and except on routes
designated within the city as "Truck Route".
      2.   No vehicle, truck, or trailer having a gross vehicle weight
exceeding twenty five thousand (25,000) pounds may be parked upon public
streets, easements, alleys or other public ways of the city for a period
exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
      3.   No vehicle, truck, or trailer having a gross vehicle weight
exceeding twenty five thousand (25,000) pounds may be parked upon public
streets, easements, alleys or other public ways in a residential area or
immediately adjacent to a residential area of the city except for such time as
may be necessary to load or unload such vehicle. During such time, said vehicle
shall not be unattended.
      4.   No vehicle, truck, or trailer having a gross vehicle weight
exceeding twenty five thousand (25,000) pounds which is parked upon public
streets, easements, alleys or other public ways of the city shall leave its
engine or any refrigeration engine running while such vehicle is unattended.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Mail carriers, garbage collection vehicles, service vehicles and
firetrucks shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
      2.   Delivery trucks, while making an actual delivery, shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section; except, that such delivery truck shall
utilize truck routes to the point nearest the point of delivery before
operating on any street or public way which has not been posted as a "Truck
Route". (2016 Code)
7-5-5: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway. (2015 Code § 15-105; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products, except baled agricultural products, but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom. (2015 Code § 15-105)
7-5-6: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the streets
of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is properly
equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair. (2015
Code § 15-106)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS; TOY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Bicycles
7-6-1-1: Application Of Regulations
7-6-1-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-6-1-3: Rules Of Operation
7-6-1-4: Lights And Reflector Required
7-6-2: Limitation On Use Of Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
7-6-3: Riding On Sidewalks In Business Districts
7-6-4: Motorcycle And Motor Scooter Equipment Required; Headgear
7-6-1: BICYCLES:
7-6-1-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this section
7-6-1.
   B.   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not authorize
or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this section
7-6-1.
   C.   The provisions of this section
7-6-1 are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway or upon
any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (2015 Code § 15-401)
   D.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this section
7-6-1 and except as to those provisions of law and ordinances which, by their
nature, can have no application. (2015 Code § 15-402)
7-6-1-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any person may walk bicycles and shall
then be subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians. (2015 Code § 15-403)
7-6-1-3: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (2015 Code § 15-404)
   B.   Ride On Right: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall
ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due
care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(2015 Code § 15-405)
   C.   Riding Side By Side: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   D.   Speed Limit: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (2015 Code § 15-
407)
7-6-1-4: LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR REQUIRED:
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the state department of public safety, which shall be visible from
all distances from three hundred feet (300') to five hundred feet (500') to the
rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (2015
Code § 15-409)
7-6-2: LIMITATION ON USE OF MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street
or highway, except as provided in this section.
      1.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a
double seating device with double footrests or a sidecar attachment providing a
separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      2.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   B.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the
city.
   C.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter shall hold on to
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   D.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or
motor bicycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
   E.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles in
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized emergency
vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection.
   F.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any motorcycle,
motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the city between and during the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the next
day. (2015 Code § 15-501)
7-6-3: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "vehicle" shall include, but
is not limited to, the following: any motor vehicle, skateboard, roller skates,
rollerblades, in-line skates, coaster, motor scooter, scooter, motorcycle,
bicycle, wagon, tricycle, or any similar vehicle or device.
   B.   Riding On Sidewalks Prohibited: No person shall operate or ride a
vehicle on a sidewalk within a business district within the city limits.
Note: For the purpose of this section, the city council has determined that
both the 100 block of West Main (Avenue B west to C) and the 100 block of East
Main (Avenue B east to A) to be a designated business district. This is subject
to change as the need arises or at the city council's discretion.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section, upon
conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and court costs. (2016 Code)
7-6-4: MOTORCYCLE AND MOTOR SCOOTER EQUIPMENT REQUIRED; HEADGEAR:
   A.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor scooters
shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment;
      2.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of the vehicle;
      3.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application
of the service brake;
      4.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle;
      5.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      6.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one- half (1/2) hour after sunset
to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead; and
      7.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or a face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
   B.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturer of the vehicle. (2015
Code § 15-502)
   C.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or ride upon
any vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for use
by the operators of such vehicles. All such helmets shall consist of lining,
padding and chinstraps and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver. Such headgear shall comply with the regulations issued by the state
department of public safety as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes subsection 12-
609B. (2015 Code § 15-502; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
LOW SPEED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose; Disclaimer Of Liability
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Use Regulations
7-7-4: Violation; Penalty
7-7-1: PURPOSE; DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   This chapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. The
vehicles addressed in this chapter are not designed or manufactured to be used
on public streets. The city in no way advocates their operation on public
streets. The city, by regulating such operation, is merely addressing safety
issues. Adoption of this chapter is not to be relied upon as a determination
that operation of such vehicles on streets is safe or advisable if done in
accordance with this chapter. All persons who operate or ride in such vehicles
on public streets do so at their own risk and peril and must be observant of
and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, after considering the
speed, volume and character of motor vehicle traffic using the public streets,
the city council has reviewed and approved the use of certain such vehicles on
public streets under the conditions and limitations hereinafter prescribed.
(2016 Code)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle manufactured and used
exclusively for off highway use, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure
tires, and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and
handlebars for steering.
GOLF CART: A self-propelled vehicle with a minimum of three (3) wheels, capable
of a maximum level ground speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour,
maximum rated pay load capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200) pounds, and
maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds.
MINIBIKE: Any self-propelled vehicle or motor driven cycle having less than an
eight inch (8") wheel rim, or less than a forty inch (40") wheelbase, or less
than a twenty five inch (25") seat height.
UTILITY VEHICLE: A self-propelled vehicle, manufactured and used exclusively
for off highway use, equipped with seating for two (2) or more people and a
steering wheel, traveling on three (3) or more wheels. (2016 Code)
7-7-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   The self-propelled or motor driven and operated vehicles described in
this chapter shall be prohibited from operating or shall be limited in
operation on the streets and highways of the city.
   B.   Such vehicles must be insured by a policy of liability insurance, and
the operator must carry proof of insurance.
   C.   Self-propelled or motor driven cycles, known and commonly referred to
as "minibikes" and other similar trade names, shall be prohibited from
operating on the streets and highways of the city, except when used in a
parade.
   D.   Golf carts and utility vehicles may be operated on the streets of and
highways within the city subject to the following limitations:
      1.   They may operate on state highways in the city only if making a
perpendicular crossing, in the shortest possible manner, from one side of the
highway to the other, at an intersection of a city street.
      2.   They may only operate during daylight hours between the hours of
thirty (30) minutes after sunrise and thirty (30) minutes before sunset.
      3.   The operator of such vehicle must have a valid driver's license.
   E.   Low speed and all-terrain vehicles shall observe all rules of the road
relating to parking, speed and operation and shall also be equipped with proper
illumination consisting of headlamp(s), taillamp(s), reflectors or reflector
tape on each side and rear of the vehicle, except when used in a parade, or by
public works, police and fire departments or for other authorized use.
   F.   Implements of husbandry are allowed to operate on city streets
according to current state statutes. (2016 Code)
7-7-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
an offense punishable by fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court
costs. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
7-8-1: Enforcement Officials
7-8-2: Eluding Police Prohibited
7-8-3: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations
7-8-4: Citations; Requirements And Prohibitions
7-8-5: Records
7-8-6: Penalty
7-8-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   The police department shall have the power to enforce the street
traffic regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
   B.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or in the
immediate vicinity. (2015 Code § 15-117)
7-8-2: ELUDING POLICE PROHIBITED:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. "A visual or audible signal", for
the purpose of this section, means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car. (2015 Code § 15-125)
7-8-3: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this title.
   B.   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this title.
(2015 Code § 15-110)
7-8-4: CITATIONS; REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Citation Tags:
      1.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provision of this title.
      2.   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      3.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection A shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody. (2015
Code § 15-119)
   B.   Failure To Obey Citation Prohibited: It is unlawful and an offense for
any person to violate his written promise to appear, given to an officer upon
the issuance of a traffic citation, regardless of the disposition of the charge
for which the citation was originally issued. (2015 Code § 15-120)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Citation Attached To Parked Vehicle: If a
violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this subsection. (2015 Code § 15-121)
   D.   Illegal Cancellation Of Citations: It is unlawful for any person to
cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other
than as provided by this chapter. (2015 Code § 15-122)
7-8-5: RECORDS:
   A.   Disposition And Records Of Citations, Warrants And Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of the city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
      2.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      3.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      4.   No member of the police department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter.
(2015 Code § 15-123)
   B.   Court Records:
      1.   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture. (2015 Code § 15-124)
      2.   a. Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail
of a person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court shall prepare and immediately forward to the state department of
public safety a certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An
abstract need not be made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or
standing of a vehicle.
         b.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state
department of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator license, the registration number of the
vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea, the
judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(2015 Code § 15-124; amd. 2016 Code)
7-8-6: PENALTY:
Any violations of the provisions of this title shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 15-701)
ARTICLE A.  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-8A-1: Purpose And Effect
7-8A-2: Authority To Impound
7-8A-3: Place Of Impoundment
7-8A-4: Inventory Of Impounded Vehicles
7-8A-5: Impoundment Fee
7-8A-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of this article shall be construed
as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public peace, safety and
welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used generally for the
prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and abatement of public
nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection of the public rights
in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions placed and left in
derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and protecting recovered
stolen vehicles. (2015 Code § 15-601)
7-8A-2: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized, within the limits set
forth in this article, to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this article. (2015 Code § 15-604)
   A.   Disabled Vehicle: A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be
impounded under the following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(2015 Code § 15-605)
   B.   Vehicle On Bridge: An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct
or causeway or in any tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or a hazard, may be impounded. (2015 Code § 15-606)
   C.   Arrest And Detention Of Driver: Whenever the driver or person in charge
of any vehicle is placed under arrest and taken into custody and detained by
police under circumstances which leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on
any street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded. (2015 Code § 15-607)
   D.   Vehicle Creating Traffic Hazard: A vehicle left unattended upon any
street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked illegally as to constitute a
definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic shall be
impounded. (2015 Code § 15-608)
   E.   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle:
      1.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this title may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this subsection E.
      2.   If a violation of the provisions of this title occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
      3.   Upon the filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
this title have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to
be impounded from the property and placed in storage. (2015 Code § 15-609)
   F.   Vehicle Parked Overtime: Any unattended vehicle which has been parked
for more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in any place
shall be impounded, and any vehicle parked in violation of this title regarding
more than twenty four (24) hours shall be impounded. (2015 Code § 15-610)
   G.   Vehicle Blocking Fire Exit Or Hydrant: Any vehicle illegally parked in
such a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device or exit or blocks
ready access to a fire hydrant shall be impounded. (2015 Code § 15-611)
   H.   Vehicle Parked In Intersection: Any unattended vehicle illegally parked
in any street intersection shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an
intersection with the person in charge of the vehicle being present shall be
moved out of the intersection and to the nearest available legal parking space
at the street curbing. (2015 Code § 15-612)
   I.   Stolen Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment, and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police
department.
      2.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (2015 Code § 15-613)
   J.   Vehicle With Outstanding Traffic Citations: Any vehicle for which two
(2) or more citations have been issued for violation of an ordinance and have
not been presented as required may be impounded if parked in violation of any
provision of this title. (2015 Code § 15-614)
7-8A-3: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this article shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the city
council, and to no other place. (2015 Code § 15-602)
7-8A-4: INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two (2) or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his property, the protection of
city law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle. (2015 Code § 15-615)
7-8A-5: IMPOUNDMENT FEE:
   A.   Fee Established; Application: Any vehicle impounded under the authority
granted by this title or the statutes of the state of Oklahoma shall be stored
and held until written order for its release, signed by an authorized officer
of the city, has been issued. Motor vehicles impounded for the following
reasons shall require that such order of release be conditioned on the payment
of an impound fee in an amount as set by motion or resolution of the city
council by the person to whom the release is issued:
      1.   Where the motor vehicle has an evidentiary value or has directly or
indirectly been involved in the commission of a crime.
      2.   When a police officer effects the arrest and removal of the owner or
operator of a vehicle from the vehicle.
      3.   When the vehicle bears a license plate that has expired for a period
in excess of ninety (90) days, bears a license plate that has been altered or
tampered with or bears a temporary tag issued more than thirty (30) days prior
to the impoundment, or bears no license plate that would be in conformance with
the Oklahoma vehicle license and registration act 1 .
      4.   When the person operating the vehicle on public streets or public
property is driving under a suspended or revoked driver's license or is
operating a vehicle with an invalid driver's license or no driver license or
has failed to provide compulsory vehicle liability insurance, as required by
law.
      5.   When the vehicle is parked illegally, is abandoned or left
unattended which impedes or obstructs the flow of traffic or otherwise poses a
safety hazard.
   B.   Fee Is Additional; Disposition: The impound fee shall be independent of
any fines, costs or fees that may be assessed from citations issued to any
person for violation of traffic laws or other ordinance violations involving
the impounded vehicle and in addition to any fees owed to the towing service
for the impoundment and storage. The chief of police is hereby authorized to
adopt rules and regulations consistent with this article to implement this
section. All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into a
police training fund and will be used for that purpose with authorization by
the police chief. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1101 et seq.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-2: Sidewalk Maintenance Required
8-1-3: Depositing Materials And Substances Prohibited
8-1-4: Drainage Of Water And Other Substances
8-1-5: Playing In Streets
8-1-6: Trees And Shrubs
8-1-7: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct
the sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with
pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the
town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking
thereon. (2015 Code § 14-104)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the
town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and
leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade. (2015 Code § 14-103)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any
street, sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other
obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural
flow of water into the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to back any
water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutters. (2015 Code § 14-111)
8-1-2: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area. (2015 Code § 14-110)
8-1-3: DEPOSITING MATERIALS AND SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (2015 Code § 14-105)
8-1-4: DRAINAGE OF WATER AND OTHER SUBSTANCES:
   A.   The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the city
is hereby prohibited. (2015 Code § 14-107)
   B.   No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the
city where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or
during the washing thereof shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of
the city. (2015 Code § 14-108)
   C.   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other
place of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water,
grease or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley or other public way. (2015 Code § 14-109)
8-1-5: PLAYING IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the city, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (2015
Code § 14-106)
8-1-6: TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Trimming Required:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalk and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalk or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct the free and
convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When
such premises is occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant
shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required
of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of
a street or alley nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
      2.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection A1 of this section, after
receiving five (5) days' notice from the head of the department in charge of
streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against the city. Every day
that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or
shrubbery, after the expiration of the five (5) day notice, shall be a separate
offense. (2015 Code § 14-101)
   B.   Injury Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or
shrubbery on any street or alley in the city; provided, that this shall not
prohibit the lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(2015 Code § 14-102)
8-1-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 14-112)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules And Regulations
8-2-2: Fees
8-2-3: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities owned or
operated by the city. (2015 Code § 11-101)
8-2-2: FEES:
The city shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the city. (2015 Code § 11-102)
8-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational facilities
without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated by the city
council in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and
regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 11-103)
CHAPTER 4
CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Supervision And Control
8-4-2: Plat Of Cemetery
8-4-3: General Authority Of City
8-4-4: Conveyance Of Lots
8-4-5: Burials
8-4-6: Monuments
8-4-7: Grave Decorations
8-4-8: Traffic Regulations
8-4-9: Prohibitions
8-4-10: Penalty
8-4-1: SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The cemetery of the city shall be under the supervision and control of the
mayor and city council who shall appoint a sexton or other authorized
representative for the cemetery and such employees as the mayor and city
council from time to time deem necessary. (2015 Code § 11-301)
8-4-2: PLAT OF CEMETERY:
The city clerk at all times shall keep a plat of the cemetery grounds with a
record of all lots sold marked thereon, and the plat shall be at all times
subject to inspection by any person who may desire to purchase a lot in the
cemetery or who may already own one or more of the lots. (2015 Code § 11-303)
8-4-3: GENERAL AUTHORITY OF CITY:
   A.   The city shall have the power to remove or cause to be moved, relocated
or repaired any obstructions that are deemed a hazard to the mowing of or the
beautification of the cemetery, such as curbs, fencing, trees, shrubs, flowers
or any obstruction above ground other than headstones and family markers. (2015
Code § 11-304)
   B.   The city shall have the power to enclose, improve and adorn the grounds
and avenues and to erect buildings for the general use of the cemetery and to
prohibit any use, division, improvement or adornment of a lot which is deemed
improper. (2015 Code § 11-305)
   C.   The city employee or employees performing duties as the sexton of the
cemetery shall exercise the duties of a police officer within the cemetery and
are hereby empowered to make arrests for violations of the provisions of this
chapter. (2015 Code § 11-325)
8-4-4: CONVEYANCE OF LOTS:
   A.   The original conveyance of lots from the city to individuals shall be
evidenced by a certificate signed by the mayor and countersigned by the city
clerk under the seal of the city, and no person shall be a proprietor of more
than eight (8) burial spaces at the same time unless by consent of the mayor
and city council. (2015 Code § 11-302)
   B.   No lot or part of a lot shall be sold without the consent of the mayor
and city council after the lot has been purchased from the city. The original
deed issued will have to be in the hands of the city clerk before the resale
shall be valid. After approval by the city council members, the city clerk will
issue a new deed and cancel the existing deed, and the fee for such a
transaction shall be set by motion or resolution of the mayor and city council.
(2015 Code § 11-320)
8-4-5: BURIALS:
   A.   Permit Required; Records Kept: From and after the effective date
hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to dig a grave or construct a vault
upon any lot or piece or parcel of land in the cemetery of the city, or to bury
or inter any body therein, without first procuring from the city clerk a permit
to do so, and the city clerk shall keep a suitable record of the name of the
deceased and the time and place of burial. Before granting the permit, the
person applying therefor shall furnish such information to the city clerk as to
enable the clerk to make such record. No fee shall be charged for granting or
issuing such permit. (2015 Code §§ 11-306, 11-307)
   B.   Authority To Open Graves: No graves shall be dug or vault constructed
except by the employees of the city unless permission is granted otherwise by
the mayor and city council. (2015 Code § 11-308)
   C.   Fees:
      1.   Grave Openings: Fees as set by the city council shall be paid in
advance to the city before the issuance of a permit for the digging of the
following graves:
         a.   Infant's grave opening (defined as 1 year or younger);
         b.   County charity openings;
         c.   Adult grave opening;
         d.   Saturday, Sunday or holiday opening;
         e.   Cremation opening; and
         f.   Disinterments opening and closing only. (2015 Code § 11-309)
      2.   Burial Spaces: Burial spaces in the cemetery shall be sold at the
price established by motion or resolution of the mayor and city council, with
the exception of spaces sold to the county for charity cases, which shall be
set by the city council. (2015 Code § 11-310)
8-4-6: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Permission Required: All individuals, firms, or corporations who set
any monument or monuments in the cemetery shall, before beginning work thereon,
secure permission from the sexton or other authorized representative stating
work to be done, size of monument to be set and the time of setting the
monument. (2015 Code § 11-312)
   B.   Laying Foundation: No foundation for any gravestone or monument shall
be laid except by the sexton or other authorized representative or directly
under their supervision, and no stone or monument shall be set except when the
ground is in suitable condition. (2015 Code § 11-313)
   C.   Base Requirements: No monument shall be set in the cemetery on a base
which is less than six inches (6") to whatever depth beneath the surface of the
ground as deemed necessary by the sexton or other authorized representative,
taking into consideration the soil and weight of the monument. The base shall
have a projection of not less than five inches (5") beyond the monument on all
sides. (2015 Code § 11-315)
   D.   Site Restoration: Any person, firm or corporation having a foundation
for a monument set shall, at the conclusion of the work, dispose of all surplus
dirt and other debris without expense to the city, and such disposal shall be
under the supervision of the sexton or other authorized representative and must
be performed to the satisfaction of the sexton or other authorized
representative. (2015 Code § 11-314)
   E.   Resetting Shifted Monument: If any monument placed by any person, firm
or corporation shall settle out of plumb, it shall be the duty of the person,
firm or corporation setting the same to repair and reset the monument. If such
person, firm or corporation shall fail to do so, no further permission shall be
granted by the sexton or other authorized representative to the person, firm or
corporation until such repairs are made. (2015 Code § 11-316)
   F.   Responsibility For Property Damage: Persons engaged in setting
monuments or other structures are not permitted to attach ropes to other
monuments or trees and shall be held responsible for any damage to any other
monuments, grass, trees, or any other object whatsoever in the cemetery. (2015
Code § 11-317)
   G.   Nonliability Of City For Damage To Monuments: The city shall not be
liable for damages to monuments installed or laid in the cemetery after the
effective date hereof, in violation of this chapter, occurring during the
maintenance and moving operations in the cemetery by the city. (2015 Code § 11-
321)
8-4-7: GRAVE DECORATIONS:
For spring and summer seasons beginning April 1 and extending to November 1, no
wreaths, sprays, or potted plants that are deemed a mowing hazard will be
permitted on any lot except on Easter Sunday, Mother's Day, Memorial Day and
days following, up to and through Father's Day, and one week following
interment service. Flowers, potted plants, sprays, etc., will be removed when
left beyond the days set out or sooner if deemed a hazard. The city assumes no
responsibility for decorative objects placed in the cemetery. (2015 Code § 11-
323)
8-4-8: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor or other vehicle any place
within the cemetery except on the established roadways unless permission to
drive such vehicle off the roadway is granted by the sexton or other authorized
representative.
   B.   No hauling shall be done in the cemetery except with the permission of
the sexton or other authorized representative. (2015 Code § 11-318)
8-4-9: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Curbs: No curbs shall be constructed around lots in the cemetery or any
other type of fencing that would interfere with the mowing of the grounds.
(2015 Code § 11-311)
   B.   Advertisements: It is unlawful for the owner of any lot in the
cemetery, for the purpose of display or advertisement, to rent a lot or portion
thereof for such purpose to any individual, firm or corporation. (2015 Code §
11-319)
   C.   Damage To Property: It is unlawful for any person to enter the cemetery
with intent to do any unlawful act with force or violence against the property
of the cemetery. (2015 Code § 11-322)
   D.   Hunting: No hunting shall be permitted within the boundaries of the
cemetery. (2015 Code § 11-324)
8-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 11-326)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Improvements To And Maintenance Of Public Ways Required
8-5-2: Speed Limit
8-5-3: Trains Obstructing Crossings
8-5-4: Boarding, Climbing On Trains
8-5-1: IMPROVEMENTS TO AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet
(2') on either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street
is to be or has been improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the
city council, by motion or resolution, may approve.
      2.   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is
being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is
occupied by its track or tracks and two feet (2') on each side, using the same
material as is to be or has been used on the street, or such other satisfactory
material as the city council, by motion or resolution, may approve. When more
than one track crosses a street within a distance of one hundred feet (100'),
measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall grade,
gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks and surface or pave
it with the same material which the city is to use or has used on the street.
   B.   Alleys: In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with its
track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and grade such
alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be or
has been used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the
city council, by motion or resolution, may approve. (2015 Code § 16-101)
   C.   Sidewalks: Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their
rights of way using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar
as this is practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks
on both sides of the street when both sides are used by pedestrians. The
company shall keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (2015
Code § 16-102)
   D.   Maintenance Required: Railroad companies shall keep all such
improvements made by them in a good state of repair at all times. (2015 Code §
16-101)
8-5-2: SPEED LIMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to operate or drive a train or railroad engine at
a speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour within the city. (2015 Code §
16-104)
8-5-3: TRAINS OBSTRUCTING CROSSINGS:
It is unlawful for any railroad train or railroad car to block streets or
avenues of the city for a longer period than five (5) minutes except in the
event of an emergency. (2015 Code § 16-105)
8-5-4: BOARDING, CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner attach
himself to any railway train, locomotive, or railway car while such is in
motion within the city, unless such person is acting in line of duty, or to
board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight, or other car,
except with a proper ticket or with the permission of the person in charge of
the train or car or in the line of duty. (2015 Code § 16-103)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
LEASE OF SYSTEMS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Lease Of Utilities To Public Works Authority
9-1-2: Rules Of Authority Adopted
9-1-1: LEASE OF UTILITIES TO PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
The city has leased the operation of its water, sewer and gas systems to the
Oilton public works authority, including setting rates for use of the systems
and all regulations governing them. For a copy of current rates and rules, see
the minutes of the Oilton public works authority. (2015 Code § 17-101)
9-1-2: RULES OF AUTHORITY ADOPTED:
The rates and rules of the Oilton public works authority are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, fully applicable as if set out at length
herein. Violations are punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 17-102)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Compliance With Provisions
9-2-3: Connection To Sewer System
9-2-4: New Sewers And Connections
9-2-5: Service Charges
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed in this section:
SANITARY SEWAGE OR SEWAGE: The liquid waste, which may or may not contain
solids, originating in the sanitary conveniences for persons of a dwelling,
business building, factory or institution.
SANITARY SEWER OR SEWER: Means and includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines,
main lines, submain lines, lateral lines and sewage treatment plants, and all
sewer lines connected to the city's sewer lines or treatment plants, whether
owned by the city or not.
USER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM: The person, firm or corporation having a contract for
water service at a particular location, if the location has a sanitary sewer
connection with the city's system; or in case there is no water contract on
file, then the person, firm or corporation which is charged with water bills
for the location, or which pays the same, or in case a private water supply is
used, then the proprietor of the location having the sewer connection. (2016
Code)
9-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   All connections to the sewers of the city shall conform to the rules
and regulations prescribed by the city.
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection to
any public sewer or any connection to any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer without complying with the rules and regulations
herein set out.
   C.   Any person who connects to the sewers of the city in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the city or of the laws of the state will be
denied further sewer service until there is compliance with such ordinances and
laws. It shall be the duty of the person designated by the city council to
disconnect any sewers which have not been connected in compliance with said
ordinances and laws. (2016 Code)
9-2-3: CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Required; Abandonment Of Private System:
      1.   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a sanitary sewer line of the city, are hereby
required to install suitable toilet and sewage disposal facilities directly
with the public sanitary sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within thirty (30) days after official notice to do so.
      2.   At such time as a public sanitary sewer line becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall
be made to the public sanitary sewer system in compliance with this section,
and any septic tank, cesspool and any similar private sewage disposal facility
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into the public sanitary sewer system.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sanitary
sewer line or appurtenance thereof and, before commencement of the construction
of any dwelling, public building, commercial or industrial building, shall
obtain a written permit signed by the city clerk.
      2.   Application For Permit; Inspection Of Connection: The application
for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, and the
connection shall be inspected by a person designated by the city council.
      3.   Permit Fee: A charge prescribed by section
9-2-5 of this chapter for each connection made to the city sanitary sewer
system, regardless of whether the connection is made to what has heretofore
been designated as a public sewer or a private sewer, is hereby imposed for the
right of the person, firm or corporation to make the connection to the city
sanitary sewer system. It is hereby declared to be the duty of the city clerk
to make this collection for issuing a permit to the applicant.
   C.   Indemnification For Damages: The owner of any such building shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation or connection of such building with the public
sanitary sewer system.
   D.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of any building with the public sanitary sewer
system shall be borne by the owner. (2016 Code)
9-2-4: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the city building code, and other applicable
rules and regulations of the city.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma state department of
environmental quality regulations.
   C.   When a public sewer becomes available (within 150 feet), the building
sewer shall be connected to the sewer with sixty (60) days. (2016 Code)
9-2-5: SERVICE CHARGES:
For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the city sanitary
sewerage system and for other purposes, there are hereby fixed and established
charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be imposed against each
respective user thereof within the city in such amounts and according to such
classifications of users as the city council, by resolution or motion, may
determine. A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on file in the
city clerk's office. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Duty To Request Garbage Service
9-3-3: Container Requirements
9-3-4: Rubbish Too Large For Container
9-3-5: Use Of Commercial Dumpsters And Roll-Off Containers
9-3-6: Contract For Collection And Disposal
9-3-7: Collection Requirements And Restrictions
9-3-8: Method Of Disposal
9-3-9: Fees
9-3-10: Prohibited Acts
9-3-11: Inspections And Investigations
9-3-12: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CITY HEALTH OFFICER: That person so designated to act by the city council at a
compensation also set by the city council, if any.
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowls from
any premises within the city limits.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into lengths
not exceeding 3.5 feet), leaves, etc., from any premises within the city
limits.
RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden, or metal
refuselike materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse. (2015 Code § 17-
201)
9-3-2: DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE:
To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the city, it is the duty of
every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the city at the
beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the garbage pick up and
collection service; provided, however, that failure of any owner, rental agent
or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor in any
way impair or impede the city from adding the address of such premises to the
proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures. (2015 Code §
17-208)
9-3-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Required; Specifications: It is the duty of every person,
firm or corporation owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any
premises or any place where garbage or rubbish accumulates, to provide, and at
all times to maintain in good order and repair, on any premises, a portable
container or containers for refuse which shall be made of galvanized metal or
equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodentproof and flyproof, with a
tightfitting lid which shall not be removed except when depositing or removing
the contents of the receptacle, and with handles on the sides, and of
sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to accommodate and securely keep
all of the garbage and rubbish that may accumulate between collections. Each
container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty two (32) gallons,
except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use.
   B.   Location: All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for
collection, as designated by the city council, whereby collectors can obtain
same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards with
dogs.
   C.   Condition Of Containers:
      1.   All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
      2.   All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of
any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects. (2015 Code § 17-202)
9-3-4: RUBBISH TOO LARGE FOR CONTAINER:
All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs, paper boxes, and
scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers required by
this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied or sacked in compact
bundles, weighing no more than fifty (50) pounds, and placed in a location
easily accessible to the collector. (2015 Code § 17-202)
9-3-5: USE OF COMMERCIAL DUMPSTERS AND ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the owner of the
business subscribing to commercial garbage service with the city, to dispose of
trash and refuse in any dumpsters provided for such commercial customer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, not a garbage customer of the
city, to dispose of trash or refuse in any roll-off container or dumpster
located on municipal property. Any such person disposing of trash or rubbish in
such container must have in their possession, at the time of such disposal, the
most recent paid receipt, reflecting that such person is a paid trash customer
of the city.
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2016 Code)
9-3-6: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   City Authority To Contract: The city shall have authority to enter into
a contractual obligation with those who wish to engage in the business of
refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the city. The city
shall be limited to contracting for such service to contract only with persons
having proper equipment, meeting state department of health requirements, and
sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of refuse in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; and provided, further, that the method of disposal
contracted for must be in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Collection And Disposal; Approval Or Denial: Every
person desiring to engage in the collection and disposal of refuse shall have
the right to make written application to the city and shall make written
application setting forth the name of such person, the residence address
thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the equipment
to be used in the collection or disposal of such refuse, the place of disposal
and the method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of application, all
bids may be considered at some time prior to the expiration of the then
existing contract, if any. Any person whose application has been denied may
request and shall be granted a hearing before the city council. (2015 Code §
17-204)
   C.   Violation: It is unlawful for any person who is not under a contract
with the city to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal
for compensation in the city. (2015 Code § 17-204; amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-7: COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The city or its authorized representative shall collect garbage and
rubbish from all areas of the city upon a schedule as approved by the city
council. It is the duty of any person in possession or control of any premises
to place the containers required by this chapter in a location easily
accessible to the collector as directed by the city council. (2015 Code § 17-
203; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person in charge of having such accumulations, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the city health officer for
removal and disposal of same.
   C.   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge of same and
by the method directed by the city health officer.
   D.   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the city health officer.
   E.   Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and
other animal or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations, or
materials considered hazardous or dangerous shall be removed and disposed of at
the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the method
directed by the city health officer. (2015 Code § 17-203)
9-3-8: METHOD OF DISPOSAL:
   A.   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover. (2015 Code §
17-205)
   B.   There shall be no open burning on the premises unless the operations
are carried out in an approved type incinerator or approval is obtained from
the city health officer. (2015 Code § 17-202)
9-3-9: FEES:
There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the city council by motion or
resolution. (2015 Code § 17-207)
9-3-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   The placing of garbage or rubbish or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the city limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the city limits, except at such place as may be directed by the city
health officer, is prohibited.
   B.   The meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering
contents, or junking in any alley or street within the city limits is
prohibited. (2015 Code § 17-203)
9-3-11: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
The city may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all
premises to see that there is compliance with the terms of this chapter. (2015
Code § 17-206)
9-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
as provided section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 17-209)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS; PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Official
10-1-2: Fire Limits
10-1-3: Permit Requirements
10-1-4: Appeals
10-1-5: Injunctions
10-1-6: Violation; Penalty
10-1-7: Relief In Courts
10-1-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official of the city shall be appointed by the city council and
shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the building official by the
city building code; provided, that his powers and duties may be exercised by
his authorized representatives under his supervision and control. The term
"building inspector", whenever used in the ordinances of the city, means the
building official. The terms "electrical inspector", "plumbing inspector", and
"gas inspector", wherever used in the ordinances of the city, also each refer
to and mean the building official, unless a separate electrical inspector,
plumbing inspector, or gas inspector is appointed by the city council. (2015
Code § 5-104)
10-1-2: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits include all of the area in the city limits. (2015 Code § 5-105)
10-1-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved, as required in the building code, nor any mobile home located, relocated
or constructed, without a building permit issued by the city building official.
      2.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
city to a location within the city or from one location within the city to
another location within the city, a building permit is required.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person desiring a building permit shall
submit an application therefor to the city building official. The applicant
shall submit with the application such reasonable information as the building
official may require to enable him to determine whether granting the permit
would be in accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the city.
   C.   Permit Fees; Issuance Of Permit:
      1.   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the building official shall issue the permit upon the
payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion or
resolution of the city council. A current copy of the fee schedule shall be
kept in the office of the city building official.
      2.   All buildings being constructed by public bodies, such as the state,
counties, school districts, municipalities, and tax exempt organizations, shall
be exempt from the payment of fees for building permits. Such bodies shall
comply with all other regulations governing the construction of any building in
the city.
   D.   Scope Of Permit: A building permit covers the initial plumbing and
electrical installations to be made in connection with the building. (2015 Code
§ 5-106)
10-1-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person feeling aggrieved by any action taken by the code
enforcement officer, in connection with the provisions of this title, or other
related ordinances, may appeal from the decision of the code enforcement
officer. Such appeal shall be in writing and must be taken within ten (10) days
from the date of the action complained of, and the appeal shall be lodged with
the city council. (2015 Code § 5-1002; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Upon the filing of an appeal under this section, the city council shall
assemble as soon as is convenient thereafter for the purpose of conducting a
hearing on the appeal.
   C.   The city council may, only in cases of extreme hardship, grant
exceptions to this title.
   D.   The decision of the city council upon all questions of fact shall be
final. (2015 Code § 5-1002)
10-1-5: INJUNCTIONS:
The city attorney, upon discovery of any violations of the provisions of this
title, may immediately seek injunctive relief against those persons violating
provisions of this title and bring civil action against such persons for
damages and expenses resulting from any violations of provisions of this title.
(2015 Code § 5-1001)
10-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in any business, trade or
vocation for which a license, permit, or certificate of registration is
required by this title, without having a valid license, permit, or certificate
of registration, as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this
title or by any code adopted by this title, or who shall otherwise violate any
provision of this title or of any code adopted by this title, or who shall
violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for
in this title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code § 5-1003; amd. 2016 Code)
10-1-7: RELIEF IN COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title shall interfere with the right
of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an
injunction or other appropriate action against such person, firm or
corporation. (2015 Code § 5-1004)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Adoption Of Code
10-2-2: Amendments To Code
10-2-3: Violation; Penalties
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The BOCA basic/national building code, the latest edition thereof, as published
by the Building Officials And Code Administrators International, Inc., is
hereby adopted as the building code of the city for the control of buildings
and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of the basic/national building code are hereby
referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this chapter. A copy of the code adopted herein is on file in the
office of the city clerk. (2015 Code § 5-101; amd. 2016 Code)
10-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the building code are hereby revised:
Section 100.1, insert: city of Oilton.
Section 114.3.1, insert: The fee schedule shall be in accordance with the city
code, or as may be set or amended by ordinance or resolution.
Section 117.4, insert: offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as provided
in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
Section 118.2, insert: as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
Section 123.3, insert: as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
Section 501.2, insert: the boundaries of the fire limits as provided in the
city code.
(2015 Code § 5-102; amd. 2016 Code)
Sections 1807.2.1 and 1807.2.2, insert: six (6) feet and three (3) feet.
Section 1906.1, insert: one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in all locations.
(2015 Code § 5-102)
10-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A person who violates a provision of the code adopted in this chapter or fails
to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects,
constructs, alters, repairs or removes, or has erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, or removed, a building or structure in violation of a detailed
statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder or of a permit or
certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined any sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code, including costs. Each day upon which a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (2015 Code § 5-103)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Plumbing Code
10-3-2: Plumbing Contractors
10-3-3: Permit Requirements
10-3-4: Inspections
10-3-1: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: A certain document, at least one copy of which is on
file in the office of the city clerk, being marked and designated as the BOCA
basic/national plumbing code, the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or
amendments thereto, as published by the Building Officials And Code
Administrators International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of
the city for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
plumbing code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section, with additions, insertions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this section. (2015 Code § 5-201)
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections of the code adopted in
subsection A of this section are hereby revised as follows:
Section P-100.1 (page 5, second line), insert: the city of Oilton.
Section P-104.1 (page 6, second line), insert: May 27, 1986.
Section P-114.2 (page 12, third line), insert: as provided by the city council.
(2015 Code § 5-202)
Section P-117.4 (page 13, fifth, sixth and seventh lines), insert: offense and
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
Section P-118.2 (page 14, fifth line), insert: Twenty- five dollars ($25.00)
and fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
   (2015 Code § 5-202; amd. 2016 Code)
Section P-303.2 (page 32, third line), insert: six hundred (600) feet.
Section P-308.3 (page 33, second and third lines), insert: one foot six (6)
inches and six (6) inches.
(2015 Code § 5-202)
10-3-2: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   The phrases and words "journeyman plumber", "plumber's apprentice",
"plumbing contractor", and "plumbing", when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of the city, shall have the meanings
respectively prescribed to them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1001 et seq.,
the state plumbing license law, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      2.   For the purpose of this section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection A2:
APPRENTICE PLUMBER: Any person who is learning the plumbing trade and who is
competent to assist, under the supervision of a journeyman plumber, in the work
of installing or repairing plumbing equipment. A journeyman shall not at any
time have more than two (2) apprentice plumbers under his supervision.
"Supervision", as used in this definition, shall mean that the supervising
journeyman plumber shall be present on the job site where the apprentice
plumber is working for a period of not less than five (5) hours for an eight
(8) hour working period.
JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER: Any person actually engaged in the work of installing or
repairing any plumbing equipment in the city.
PLUMBING CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business
of installing, repairing or altering any plumbing systems or installing any
plumbing equipment or materials of any kind or description in the city, and who
is skilled in the planning, superintending and practical installation of
plumbing work, and who is licensed by the Oklahoma state department of health
and otherwise qualified under the requirements of this code to engage in the
plumbing business. (2015 Code § 5-203)
   B.   Certificate Of Registration: It is unlawful for any person to engage in
the business, trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as
a master plumber) in the city unless he is registered with the city and has a
current and valid certificate of registration issued by the city.
   C.   Qualifications Of Registrant:
      1.   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors issued by the state commissioner of health, as provided by law, may
register as such with the city.
      2.   Any license issued to a firm is not transferable.
      3.   If a person ceases to be associated with a licensed firm, the firm
is required to secure a new license in the name of the qualified, licensed
entity or person. (2015 Code § 5-203; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Application For Certificate: Applicants for certificates of
registration, after complying with the laws of the state and with the city
code, and after payment of the fee set by the city, shall be registered by the
city clerk. (2015 Code § 5-203)
   E.   Registration Fee: The fee for registration shall be as set by the city
council by motion or resolution.
   F.   Expiration Of Registration; Renewals:
      1.   The registration shall expire annually, but may be renewed from year
to year. Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws as set forth
by this section. (2015 Code § 5-203; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   All plumbing registrations not renewed within ninety (90) days after
the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new application for
registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   G.   Revocation Of Registration: The city council, upon at least ten (10)
days' notice and adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the city
registration of any plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any
provisions of the ordinances or regulations of the city relating to the
installation of plumbing or for any other cause specified in the state plumbing
license law. (2015 Code § 5-203)
10-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit
from the plumbing inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for such work must follow
section
10-1-3 of this title.
   C.   Permit Fees: The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution
or motion of the city council. Such payment will be made upon application.
(2015 Code § 5-204)
10-3-4: INSPECTIONS:
Inspection of work must conform to the guidelines set forth in the city code.
(2015 Code § 5-204)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Definition
10-4-2: Electrical Contractors
10-4-3: Permit Requirements
10-4-4: Installation Requirements
10-4-5: Inspection Fee
10-4-6: Utility Connection Requirements
10-4-7: Authority To Make Special Rulings
10-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure. (2015 Code § 5-301)
10-4-2: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Registration Requirements:
      1.   State License And City Registration Required; Fee:
         a.   No person may be registered with the city as an electrical
contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician unless he
possesses a valid and current state license and pays the registration fee.
(2015 Code § 5-307; amd. 2016 Code)
         b.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration secured from the city.
         c.   The initial fee for a registration certificate, and any renewal,
to be paid to the city clerk, shall be as set by the city council. (2015 Code §
5-307)
      2.   Bond Requirements: Every person receiving a certificate as an
electrical contractor shall file with the city clerk a bond in such sum as set
by the city council, executed with a surety company authorized to do business
in the state. The bond shall be conditioned that the principal will install all
electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances, and equipment in accordance with the
law and the ordinances and other regulations of the city relating to electrical
installations and in a workmanlike manner; that the principal shall, without
further cost to the person for whom the work was done, remedy any defective or
faulty work caused by poor workmanship or inferior or nonstandard material; and
that the city may be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all
costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his work as an
electrical contractor. (2015 Code § 5-307; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Renewal Of Certificate: A registration certificate must be renewed
within ninety (90) days following expiration of the certificate. After the
expiration, an application for a new certificate must be requested and the
initial fee paid again.
      4.   Nontransferability Of Certificate: The certificate is not
transferable to any other individual or company.
      5.   Exemptions: For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems
not using over twelve (12) volts, no registration or bond will be required. The
installation of same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances
of the city.
      6.   Revocation Of Certificate: After adequate opportunity for a hearing,
the city council may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor, an
apprentice electrician, or a journeyman electrician. (2015 Code § 5-307)
   B.   Defective Work And Materials:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
electrical contracting for the installation of wiring and apparatus for
electric light, heat or power in the city who fails to correct promptly any
defects in any work done by him contrary to this chapter, after having been
notified by the electrical inspector, shall not be issued any further permits
until such defects have been corrected; and in any case, in which any person
shall continue to or persistently violate the city code in regard to electrical
work, or the orders of the electrical inspector in relation to same, the
registration and permit of such person shall be suspended or revoked. (2015
Code § 5-309)
      2.   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the
responsibility of any person, partnership or corporation owning or operating or
installing electric wire, appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for
the damage to property or persons injured by any defect therein. Nor shall the
city or any agent thereof be deemed to assume such liability by reasons of the
inspection authorized herein or the certificate of inspection issued by the
electrical inspector. (2015 Code § 5-310)
10-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in
the corporate limits of the city or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the city electrical
inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for electrical permits shall be
made to the city clerk, and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications, and other data as may be reasonably required.
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by
motion or resolution of the city council. (2015 Code § 5-305)
10-4-4: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders,
rules and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific standards are
prescribed by this chapter or by the statutes of the state or by any orders,
rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity with the
regulations set forth in the current issue of the national electrical code, as
approved by the National Fire Protection Association, shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property. (2015 Code § 5-302)
   B.   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules
and regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a
statute of the state or any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority
thereof, a specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for
installation and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property. (2015 Code § 5-303)
10-4-5: INSPECTION FEE:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an inspection fee to
be paid to the city when electrical installations are inspected by the
electrical inspector. (2015 Code § 5-306)
10-4-6: UTILITY CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any electric light and power company or any
supplier of electricity for light, heat or power to make any electrical
connection to any building for electric wiring or apparatus until a
certificate, stating that the electrical work has been approved or written
permit authorizing the connection, has been issued by the electrical inspector.
   B.   All firms, corporations or individuals, whether operating under a
regular franchise granted by the city or not, shall, upon written notice by the
electrical inspector, disconnect from any such circuit, including main service
wires, branch feeder wires or distribution, as designated by the notice, and
shall not reconnect to the installation except upon written notice from the
electrical inspector. (2015 Code § 5-308)
10-4-7: AUTHORITY TO MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, shall have the authority to make
special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and
property and the improvement of electrical installations. In all cases, persons
engaged in the installation of electrical equipment and holding an electrical
license must be notified by letter of these decisions. (2015 Code § 5-304)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Adoption Of Code
10-5-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is hereby adopted by reference the BOCA basic/national mechanical code,
the latest edition thereof, issued by the Building Officials And Code
Administrators International, Inc., as the mechanical code for the city. The
mechanical code shall be fully applicable and enforceable in governing
mechanical work in the city, save and except such portions as may be deleted,
modified or amended by the city. If any provision of the ordinances of the city
are in conflict with the provisions of the mechanical code, except as provided
in this chapter, the provisions of the mechanical code shall prevail. A copy of
the code adopted herein is on file in the office of the city clerk. (2015 Code
§ 5-601; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
GAS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Liquefied Petroleum Gas
10-6-2: Gas Piping Regulations Adopted
10-6-1: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install, or repair any system,
container, apparatus, or appliance to be used for the transportation, storage,
dispensing, or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle,
or store such gas, unless such person has complied with and complies with all
provisions of the law and ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or
permit which may be required by state law. (2015 Code § 5-401)
   B.   Regulations Adopted: "Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum
gases", as contained in pamphlet no. 58, issued by the National Fire Protection
Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the Oklahoma liquefied
petroleum gas board, shall have full force and effect within the city. A copy
of the regulations adopted herein is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(2015 Code § 5-401; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of these rules and regulations shall
be deemed a violation of this code and shall be punishable accordingly. (2015
Code § 5-401)
10-6-2: GAS PIPING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Pamphlet no. 54, published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled "national fuel gas code", the latest edition thereof, is hereby
adopted and incorporated into this section by reference. The pamphlet shall be
in full force and effect in the city and shall govern the installation of gas
piping and gas appliances in the city. Any violation of the provisions of the
pamphlet shall be deemed a violation of this code. A copy of the regulations
adopted herein is on file in the office of the city clerk. (2015 Code § 5-501;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Adoption Of Code
10-7-2: Definition
10-7-3: Storage Of Flammable Liquids, Liquefied Petroleum Gas And Explosives
10-7-4: Authority To Modify Regulations
10-7-5: Enforcement Of Code
10-7-6: Appeals
10-7-7: Violation; Penalty
10-7-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the fire prevention code, recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the current
edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. One copy of the code is on file in
the office of the city clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated
as if fully set out at length herein. The provisions of the fire prevention
code shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (2015 Code § 13-101;
amd. 2016 Code)
10-7-2: DEFINITION:
Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the city. (2015 Code § 13-103)
10-7-3: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS AND EXPLOSIVES:
The limits referred to in the fire prevention code in which the storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited shall be the city
limits. The limits referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas
is restricted and the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents
is prohibited are hereby established as the city limits. This section shall not
affect installations in existence at the time this section was initially
adopted. (2015 Code § 13-104)
10-7-4: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY REGULATIONS:
The city council shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the code
hereby adopted in its own discretion or upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the code; provided, that
the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modifications, when granted or allowed,
and the decision of the city thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
city, and for applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant. (2015 Code § 13-105)
10-7-5: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE:
The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
(2015 Code § 13-102)
10-7-6: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (2015 Code § 13-106)
10-7-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code. (2015 Code § 13-107)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING NUMBERS AND STREET NAMES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Definitions
10-8-2: Building Numbers
10-8-3: Changes To Street Names
10-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING NUMBER: The official number assigned to the premises and recognized by
911 systems.
PREMISES: Any lot or parcel of land owned by any person, firm or corporation,
public or private, improved with a building, whether occupied or not occupied.
STREET OR ROAD NAME: Shall refer to any official name as recognized by
governmental agencies. (Ord. 186, 6-9-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
10-8-2: BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   Required: Every premises shall display the distinctive building number
assigned to that premises.
   B.   Specifications: The individual digits shall be no less than four inches
(4") in height, in block style letters, and shall be in a contrasting color to
the background.
   C.   Display Of Number: The building number shall be displayed in one of the
following fashions:
      1.   If the number is displayed on a building, the number shall be placed
upon the front of the building in such a position as to be plainly visible to
all traffic coming to the premises from either direction.
      2.   If a building is more than fifty feet (50') from the improved
portion of the street or road or is not clearly visible from the street or
road, the number shall be displayed on a sign adjacent to the street or road on
which the property fronts. Such sign shall be attached to a fence or post at a
height that assures that the number will not be obscured by weeds or winter
snows. (Ord. 186, 6-9-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
10-8-3: CHANGES TO STREET NAMES:
No street or road name shall be changed without the approval of the city
council. (Ord. 186, 6-9-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose And Intent
10-9-2: Definitions
10-9-3: Application Of Provisions
10-9-4: Mobile Home Sites
10-9-5: Conditions For Issuance Of Occupancy Permit
10-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish and provide minimum
acceptable standards, requirements, and regulations for the planned use,
development, and maintenance of mobile homes within the corporate limits of the
city, to include both freestanding mobile homes and those located in mobile
home parks, in the interest of the health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents. (Ord. 185, 6-9-2015)
10-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME: Any mobile home not located in a mobile home park or
mobile home subdivision.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured, detached structure which was originally designed,
constructed, and used for long term occupancy as a complete single-family
dwelling, is mounted on a permanent chassis with wheels attached thereto, and
which is transportable in one or more sections at least eight feet (8') in
width and twenty eight feet (28') in length.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Land or property that is used or intended to be used or
rented for occupancy by mobile homes, including all necessary utilities,
streets, and other common amenities. (Ord. 185, 6-9-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
10-9-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any mobile home site permitted, allowed, authorized and maintained
within the corporate limits of the city prior to the effective date hereof and
in compliance with any laws hereby repealed or amended may continue to be
maintained under the laws then in effect.
   B.   Any mobile home existing within the corporate limits of the city on the
effective date hereof shall be subject to the following requirements:
A mobile home site permitted shall be deemed abandoned if not used for a period
of six (6) months after the effective date hereof and shall thereafter be
required to comply with all the provisions hereof. (Ord. 185, 6-9-2015)
10-9-4: MOBILE HOME SITES:
   A.   Site Plan Required: Every person, firm or entity desiring to locate,
establish, expand, construct, or place a freestanding mobile home within the
city shall, prior to placing or locating such mobile home within the city,
submit a site plan and seek approval from the city. Such plan, as submitted,
shall include the following information:
      1.   A legal description of the property where the mobile home will be
placed.
      2.   The location of the mobile home site on the property.
      3.   The legal description of the mobile home including size, year and
make.
   B.   Site Requirements: Each site for a freestanding mobile home within the
city shall be constructed to include the following, all of which shall be
approved by a representative of the city: Each freestanding mobile home shall
consist of a minimum of one city lot and be located to have a minimum of twenty
five feet (25') front yard setback, a minimum fifteen feet (15') rear yard
setback, and a ten foot (10') side yard setback, and shall further be located
not less than fifteen feet (15') from any easement or right of way. (Ord. 185,
6-9-2015)
10-9-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit for any mobile or manufactured home, whether freestanding
or located in a mobile home park, and located within the city after the
effective date hereof, shall be issued unless such mobile or manufactured home
shall meet all of the following safety and health requirements: (Ord. 185, 6-9-
2015; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   The mobile or manufactured home shall meet and conform to the standards
of 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1084 or any successor statute as well as any
federal standards related to mobile or manufactured home construction safety.
   B.   The mobile home shall be less than ten (10) years old or a variance
approved by the city council.
   C.   The mobile or manufactured home shall be equipped with two (2)
operational exit doors.
   D.   The mobile home shall have all fuel burning heating equipment within
the home in safe operational condition.
   E.   All electrical wiring and distribution equipment within such home shall
be safe and shall comply with all state of Oklahoma building code requirements.
   F.   All plumbing fixtures, drainage piping and water piping within such
home shall be in safe and operating condition and shall comply with all state
of Oklahoma plumbing and building code requirements.
   G.   The city reserves the right to request that the home be inspected if
any of subsections A through F of this section are questionable to any
representative of the city.
   H.   No utility service connections shall be made or allowed until the home
shall meet and conform to all standards set by the city.
   I.   Tie-down anchors shall be securely installed in soil providing a stable
foundation for the mobile home.
   J.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any mobile
home, within a period of no longer than thirty (30) days after moving such
mobile home onto an approved site, to cause such mobile home to be totally
skirted of metal or other nondegradable solid material. The skirting shall be
secured to the mobile home and to the ground in a manner that will prevent the
intrusion of animals and will reduce the hazards of strong winds under said
home. (Ord. 185, 6-9-2015)
