CITY CODE
OF
PERKINS, OK
Code current through:
Ord. 513, passed May 13, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Perkins, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 513, passed May 13, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                           American Legal Publishing
                           Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 394
"AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
AND REPEALING PERMANENT AND GENERAL ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED IN THE CODE."
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF PERKINS, STATE OF
OKLAHOMA:
   SECTION 1: Code Adopted: How Cited. The code of ordinances entitled "Perkins
City Code, 2012", compiled, arranged and codified by Sterling Codifiers, is
hereby adopted for the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, and shall go into effect at
the same time this ordinance goes into effect. Said code may be cited as
"Perkins City Code, 2012", "Perkins City Code", or other appropriate
designations.
   SECTION 2: Ordinance Provisions Adopted. All of the ordinances provisions
included in the said code are hereby adopted and enacted and shall be in full
effect whether, (1) such provisions are included in the form as originally
adopted, (2) are included therein in amended form, or (3) composed wholly or
partially of new material as authorized by law.
   SECTION 3: Permanent And General Ordinances Not Included, Repealed. All of
the ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature in
effect at the time this code is adopted, but not included in this code, are
hereby repealed as of the time when this code goes into effect.
   SECTION 4: Temporary And/Or Special Ordinances Continued In Effect, Although
Omitted From The Code. The continuance and effect of temporary and/or special
ordinances or parts of ordinances, although omitted from this code, shall not
be effected by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of this code shall not
repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance omitted
therefrom. Among the temporary and/or special ordinances not repealed or
amended by the adoption of this code are the following: ordinances relating to
specific paving and sewer districts and special assessments; vacating, opening
and dedicating specific streets and alleys, relating to specific bond issues;
annexing territory to or excluding it from, the city; relating to grade and
alignment of specific streets; granting railroads use of specific streets and
alleys; naming, or changing the name of, specific streets; abating specific
nuisances; and all other temporary and/or special ordinances. Ordinances
granting franchises shall not be repealed or amended by the adoption of this
code.
   SECTION 5: Emergency Clause. It being immediately necessary for the
preservation of the peace, health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared
to exist by reason whereof this ordinance shall take effect and be in full
force and in effect from and after its passage, approval and publication.
   PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 11th day of September, 2012.
       /s/   
      ROBERT JOHNSON, MAYOR
      CITY OF PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
(SEAL)
/s/      
CITY CLERK
CITY OF PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
   APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CONTENT AND CORRECTLY ENROLLED THIS DAY          OF
SEPTEMBER, 2012.
          /s/   
         MATT DEVLIN, P.C.
         CITY ATTORNEY
         CITY OF PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
CHARTER
of the City of
PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, exercising the powers of home
rule granted to us by the constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma, in
order to provide for more efficient, adequate and economical government, do
hereby ordain, ratify and establish this charter of the city of Perkins,
Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS
Section 1-1. Incorporation
The city of Perkins, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the "city of Perkins,
Oklahoma". It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights,
privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation
known as the city of Perkins, Oklahoma; and shall be liable for all debts and
other obligations for which the corporation is legally bound at the time this
charter goes into effect.
Section 1-2. Form Of Government
The municipal government provided by this charter shall be known as the
"commission-manager government". All powers of the city shall be exercised in
the manner prescribed by this charter, or, if the manner is not thus
prescribed, then in such manner as the commission may prescribe by ordinance.
Section 1-3. Powers Of The City
The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law, and all the
implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted. Except
as prohibited by the state constitution and law, the city shall have all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities of
every name and nature whatsoever.
The city of Perkins shall have power to adopt a corporate seal and to alter it
at pleasure, to sue and to be sued, and to make contracts. It shall have power
to acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any city
purpose, including public utilities, works and ways, in fee simple or any
lesser interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, condemnation or
other legal means; and to hold, maintain, improve, enlarge, manage, control,
operate, lease, sell, convey or otherwise dispose of, such property as its
interest may require, including public utilities, works and ways. It shall have
power to issue bonds in the manner and within the limitations prescribed by the
state constitution and law. It shall have power, within the limits prescribed
by the state constitution and law, to accept and administer federal and state
grants- in-aid and to do everything necessary to accomplish the purpose or
purposes for which such grants may be made. It shall have power to ordain and
to enforce local legislation, consistent with the state constitution and law,
for the proper organization and functioning of the city government, for the
preservation and enforcement of good government and order, for the protection
of health, life, and property, for the prevention, summary abatement and
removal of nuisances, and otherwise for the promotion of the common welfare. It
shall have power to grant, extend and renew franchises in accordance with the
state constitution and law.
The enumeration or mention of particular powers by this charter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive or limiting; and in addition to the powers enumerated or
mentioned herein or implied hereby, the city shall have all powers which, under
the state constitution and law, it would be competent for this charter
specifically to enumerate or mention.
Provisions of state law relating to matters which may be regulated by cities
operating under charters, shall be in effect only insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
Section 1-4. Bequests, Gifts And Donations
The city of Perkins may receive bequests, gifts and donations of all kinds of
property in fee simple or in trust for charitable or public purposes and
perform all acts necessary to carry out the purposes of such bequests, gifts,
donations or trusts with power to manage, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of
same in accordance with the terms of the bequest, gift, donation or trust.
Section 1-5. General Grant Of Powers Not Limited
The legislative, executive and judicial powers of the city of Perkins shall
extend to all matters of local and municipal government, it being the intent
hereof that the specification of particular powers by any other provision of
this charter shall never be construed as limiting or impairing the effect of
the general grant of powers hereby made.
Section 1-6. Former Government In Force
All existing ordinances of the city of Perkins not inconsistent with this
charter or inapplicable under the altered form of municipal government provided
by this charter shall be and continue in full force and effect until amended or
repealed or until they expire by their own limitations, and no existing right,
action (civil or penal), court proceeding or contract, shall be affected by the
change in the form of government of the city; but shall all continue as though
no such change had taken place; and all debts, penalties and forfeitures which
have accrued, or which may hereafter accrue by virtue of anything heretofore
done or existing shall inure to the benefit of the city of Perkins and may be
sued for and recovered by the said city as though this charter had not been
adopted. Nothing here, however, shall legalize any invalid indebtedness of the
city heretofore contracted or incurred, or impair any defense, against the
payment of the same; nor shall the adoption of this charter in any way
interfere with any proceedings heretofore instituted relating to the levy and
collection of taxes, special assessments, or levies of any nature or with any
proceedings to enforce the payment of the same, and all contracts heretofore
entered into by the city shall remain in full force and effect and be completed
under the ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this charter.
Section 1-7. Succession Of Property Ownership
The city of Perkins shall have perpetual succession and shall own, possess and
hold all property, real and personal heretofore owned, possessed or held by the
said city of Perkins and shall assume, manage and dispose of all trusts in any
way connected therewith.
Section 1-8. Succession Of Powers
The city of Perkins shall succeed to all the property rights and liabilities
and shall acquire all benefits, and shall assume and pay all bonds, legal
obligations, and indebtedness of said city of Perkins, and by that name sue and
be sued, may contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded,
intervene, prosecute and defend, in all courts and in all matters and
proceedings; and shall have power to acquire property, real and personal, by
purchase or otherwise, within or outside of the city limits, necessary for the
public good, and to own, hold, sell, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of any
real or personal property, within or outside of the city limits.
Section 1-9. Condemnation Powers
The city of Perkins shall have the power, within or without its territorial
limits, to construct, condemn and purchase, acquire, lease, add to, maintain,
conduct and operate, waterworks, light plants, power plants, hospitals,
airports, transportation system, heating plants, cemeteries, parks, community
buildings and convention halls, sewers, and all other public utilities or works
local in use, and to do every other thing required (in whole or in part) for
the use of said city and the inhabitants thereof.
Section 1-10. Succession Of Records
The city of Perkins shall succeed to, own, possess and control all of the
books, records, documents, and all other property, real, personal or mixed,
together with all choses in action and claims belonging to and possessed by the
said city of Perkins, prior to and at the time of the adoption of this charter.
It shall be subject to and liable for all legal debts, obligations, judgments,
warrants and bonds, for which said city is bound at the time this charter shall
become effective.
ARTICLE II. THE COMMISSION
Section 2-1. Commission Created, Number
The elective officers of the city of Perkins shall be a mayor and four
commissioners. All legislative powers except the initiative and referendum
shall be vested in a commission, consisting of a mayor, elected from the city
at large, and four commissioners, each of whom shall be elected at large from
their respective wards to respective commission positions designated as
positions no. 1, 2, 3, and 4.
Section 2-2. Commission Qualifications
Only qualified registered voters of the city of Perkins who have been
registered to vote within the city of Perkins for a period of six (6) months
immediately preceding the date of filing shall be qualified for the offices of
mayor and commissioners and they shall have these qualifications from and after
the time when they file for office or are selected to fill vacancies. If the
mayor or any commissioner ceases to be a resident of the city of Perkins, such
officer shall thereupon immediately cease to be a member of the board of
commissioners. Neither the mayor nor any other commissioner may hold any office
or position in the city government by virtue of appointment by the city
manager. No person, whether such person be the mayor or commissioner, shall
hold office for a period of longer than two (2) consecutive full three (3) year
terms of office which term shall not include the time served in filling any
unexpired term of office.
Section 2-3. Election
A general city election shall be held in said city on the date established by
the general election laws of the state of Oklahoma, or in the absence of such
legislation, by ordinance, at which time there shall be elected a mayor, and
four commissioners to succeed the officers of said city then holding office,
and who shall assume their duties on the first Monday in May following their
election.
The terms of office of those persons chosen in 2001 to commission positions two
(2) and four (4) shall expire at 7:30 P.M. on the first Monday following the
election and certificate of successors to commission positions two (2) and four
(4) in the year 2002 general municipal election; thereafter, the terms of
persons chosen in 2002 and later years to represent wards two (2) and four (4),
shall expire at the time fixed by section 5-1 hereof, such being on the first
Monday following election and certification every three years.
The terms of office of those persons chosen in 2001 to commission positions one
(1) and three (3) shall expire at 7:30 P.M. on the first Monday following the
election and certification of successors to commission positions one (1) and
three (3) in the year 2003 general municipal election; thereafter, the terms of
persons chosen in 2003 and later years to represent wards one (1) and three
(3), shall expire at the time fixed on the first Monday following election and
certification of such commissioners every three years.
The terms of office of the person chosen in 2001 to the office of mayor shall
expire at 7:30 on the first Monday following the election and certification of
the successor to the office of mayor in the year 2004 general municipal
election; thereafter, the term of mayor shall expire at the time fixed on the
first Monday following election and certification of a mayor every three years.
The numbering of city wards shall be determined by the drawing of lots, to be
done by the incumbent mayor in an open public meeting prior to the filing
period for the city elections of 2001. Each elected officer shall continue to
hold and to perform the duties of office until the successor to such office is
elected and qualified, unless such officer is removed or forfeits office under
other provisions of this charter.
Section 2-4. Commission: Powers
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city,
including, the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the
commission. Without limitation of the foregoing, the commission shall have the
power:
(1) To appoint and remove the city manager, the city attorney, and the
municipal judge as provided in this charter;
(2) By ordinance to enact municipal legislation;
(3) To raise revenue and make appropriations, and to regulate bond elections,
the issuance of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of indebtedness, salaries
and wages, and all other fiscal affairs of the city, subject to the provisions
of the state constitution and the law of this charter;
(4) To inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
city, and to investigate municipal affairs;
(5) To appoint or elect and remove the members of the library board, parks and
recreation board, planning commission, the members of the board of adjustment
and other quasi-legislative, quasi-judicial or advisory offices and
authorities, now or when and if established, or to prescribe the method of
appointing or electing and removing them;
(6) To regulate elections and the initiative and referendum within the limits
prescribed by the state constitution and the law of this charter;
(7) To create and define the powers of the municipal court within the limits
prescribed by the state constitution and the law of this charter;
(8) To create, change and abolish all offices, departments and agencies of the
city government other than the offices, departments and agencies created by
this charter; and to assign additional powers, duties and functions to offices,
departments and agencies created by this charter;
(9) To establish or adopt a pension, retirement and/or social security system
or systems for any or all groups of the officers and employees in the service
of the city;
(10) To grant pardons, including the remission of fines and costs;
(11) To adopt a corporate seal and alter it at pleasure.
Section 2-5. Commission Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals
Neither the commission, the mayor nor any of its other members may direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or removal from office or employment
by the city manager or by any other authority, or, except as provided in this
charter, participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of officers
and employees of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the commission,
the mayor and its other members shall deal with the employees of the city of
Perkins solely through the city manager; and neither the commission, the mayor
nor any other member thereof may give orders on administrative matters to any
subordinate of the city manager either publicly or privately.
Section 2-6. Library Board
There shall be a library board, which shall be head of the library department.
It shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the city commission for
overlapping terms of three (3) years and to serve until their respective
successors have been appointed and qualify. The terms of two (2) members shall
begin at 7:30 o'clock P.M. on the first Monday in May in every year except
every third year when the term of only one (1) member shall begin.
Every year, at the time prescribed for the beginning of the terms of new
members or as soon thereafter as practicable, the library board shall elect a
chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary. It shall determine the time and
place of its regular meetings; and the chairman or any four (4) members may
call special meetings of the board.
The library board shall have supervision and control of the public library or
libraries of the city subject to budget appropriations of the city commission.
The library board may adopt regulations for the administration and operation of
the library or libraries, subject to ordinances which the commission may enact.
Section 2-7. Parks And Recreation Board
There shall be a parks and recreation board. The parks and recreation board
shall have responsibility for all recreation activity and all park areas within
the city of Perkins. The parks and recreation board shall consist of not less
than five (5) nor more than seven (7) members appointed by the city commission
and each of whom shall serve overlapping three (3) year terms. The city
commission, by ordinance, shall determine qualifications, rules, and procedures
for the parks and recreation board.
Section 2-8. City Clerk
The director of finance, herein provided for, shall be appointed by the city
manager, subject to approval of the city commission and also be ex officio city
clerk unless the commission by ordinance provides that the commission shall
appoint the city clerk for an indefinite term.
The city clerk shall serve as clerical officer of the commission. The city
clerk shall keep the journal of its proceedings, and shall enroll in a book or
books kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. The
city clerk shall be custodian of such documents, records and archives as may be
provided by applicable law or ordinance; shall be custodian of the seal of the
city; and shall attest, and affix the seal to documents when required in
accordance with applicable law or ordinance.
Section 2-9. Mayor And Vice Mayor
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the commission, and shall certify the
passage of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. The mayor shall be
recognized as the head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and
by the governor for purposes of military law. The mayor shall have no regular
administrative duties except that the mayor shall sign such written obligations
of the city as the commission may require. As a commissioner, the mayor shall
have all powers, rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of a
commissioner, including the right to vote on questions.
At the first meeting after the time prescribed for the beginning of the term of
a newly elected mayor or commissioners, or as soon thereafter as practicable,
the commission shall elect from its membership a vice mayor, who shall serve
until the time prescribed for the beginning of the term of the next newly
elected mayor or commissioners and until a successor has been elected and
qualifies. The vice mayor shall act as mayor during the absence, disability or
suspension of the mayor, or, if a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, until
another mayor is elected by the commission and qualifies. If the office of vice
mayor becomes vacant, the commission shall elect from its membership another
vice mayor.
Section 2-10. Commission: Meetings
The commission shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting every month at such
time as it may prescribe by ordinance or otherwise. The mayor or any three (3)
commissioners may call special meetings. All meetings of the commission shall
be open to the public, except those private meetings allowed by state law, and
the journal of proceedings shall be open to public inspection.
Section 2-11. Commission: Absences To Terminate Membership
If the mayor or any other commissioner shall be absent from more than one- half
of all the meetings of the commission, regular and special, held within any
period of four (4) consecutive calendar months, such officer shall thereupon
cease to hold office.
Section 2-12. Commissioners: Removal and Recall
(1)   Commissioners; Removal
The mayor or any commissioner shall be subject to removal from office in the
manner and for the same cause or causes as provided by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma for the removal of county officers, it being intended hereby to
provide cumulative procedure and cause for removal. In the event of a vacancy
in the office of mayor, the vice mayor shall serve as mayor with all the powers
and duties vested in the mayor until such vacancy is filled as provided for by
appointment or election as provided herein.
(2)   Commission Subject to Recall
Any holder of elective City office, including a person appointed to fill a
vacancy in any such office, may be recalled at any time by the electors
qualified to vote for the successor of such office holder in the manner
provided herein. Provided that no such office holder shall be removed from
office by recall until he shall have held such office for a period of time
greater than six (6) months. After one recall petition and election, no further
recall petition shall be filed against the same office holder during the term
for which he was elected, unless petitioners filing such petition shall first
pay into the City treasury an amount equal to all expenses of the preceding
election incurred by the City.
(3)   Initiating Recall Proceedings and Petition
To initiate recall proceedings, a written statement, in duplicate, proposing
the recall of the office holder shall be signed by one hundred (100) or more
registered, qualified electors of the City of Perkins, and shall be filed with
the City Clerk. The statement shall contain the reason, or reasons, for which
recall is sought, such statement in two hundred (200) words or less. Within
five (5) business days, the City Clerk shall mail a copy of such statement by
registered, certified or similar special mail to the official sought to be
recalled at his or her residential address. Said officer shall have ten (10)
business days after mailing of such statement to formulate and deliver to the
City Clerk a statement of not more than two hundred (200) words setting forth
the reason, or reasons, justifying such officer's conduct in office. When the
ten (10) business day period for response on the part of the office holder has
expired, the persons desiring said recall shall file with the City Clerk a
petition for the recall of such officer. Said petition shall contain in the
heading thereof the reasons for the recall as stated in the statement filed,
and the reasons justifying such officer's conduct in office, if the office
holder shall have filed any such reasons within the ten (10) business day
period. Said petition shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to circulation.
(4)   Requirements of Petition
At least two hundred (200) registered qualified electors of the City of Perkins
or the number of registered qualified electors of the City of Perkins equal to
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total electors voting at the last preceding
City general election, whichever is greater, must sign the petition. Each
signer shall write after his name his address within the City of Perkins,
giving street or avenue, if any. Not more than twenty-five (25) signatures may
appear on a single copy of the petition. Petitions shall be circulated only by
registered qualified electors of the City and the person who circulates each
copy of the petition shall sign an affidavit on the copy of the petition
stating each signer thereof signed the petition in his presence, that each
signature on the petition is genuine and that he believes each signer to be a
registered qualified elector of the City.
(5)   City Clerk to Determine Sufficiency of Petition
The circulated petition shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than one
month after the filing of a copy as provided above. Within one month after date
of filing the circulated petition, the City Clerk shall examine it and
ascertain whether it has been prepared and circulated as required and whether
the required number of registered qualified electors of the City of Perkins
have signed it. The City Clerk shall then attach a certificate to the petition.
If the City Clerk certifies that the petition has not been prepared and
circulated as required and/or lacks a sufficient number of signatures, the
petition shall have no effect; but if the City Clerk certifies that the
petition has been prepared and circulated as required and has a sufficient
number of signatures, he shall submit the petition and certificate to the City
Commission at its next meeting.
(6)   Date of Recall Election
The Commission, by resolution, after receiving the petition and certificate of
the City Clerk, shall order and fix a date for the recall election. Such
election shall be held not less than sixty (60), nor more than one hundred
twenty (120), days after the passage of the resolution. The City Clerk shall
cause the resolution ordering the election to be published in full in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City, within ten (10) days after
its passage and such publication shall be sufficient notice of the election.
(7)   Multiple Recalls
If more than one elected official is sought to be recalled, then and in that
event, separate petitions shall be filed and circulated as hereinbefore
provided for each such official.
(8)   Results of Recall
There shall be no primary election. The recall election shall be an election to
fill the office or offices held by the incumbent or incumbents sought to be
recalled. Any qualified person, including the incumbent or incumbents, may file
as a candidate for the office or offices. The candidate or candidates receiving
the greatest number of votes for the office or offices in the recall election
shall be elected. If at such election, some person or persons other than the
incumbent or incumbents receives the highest number of votes, the said
incumbent or incumbents shall be deemed to have been removed, and shall vacate
the office after qualification of his successor, which shall be within ten (10)
days from declaration of the result, otherwise the incumbent shall remain in
office.
(9)   Charter to Govern Recall Elections
The provisions of this Charter relating to City's elections shall govern recall
elections insofar as they are applicable to and are not superseded by the
provisions of this Charter.
(10)   Recalled Official Not to Hold Office or Employment
No person who has been recalled from an office or has resigned from such
office, while recall proceedings are pending against him may hold any office or
position of employment in City government of the City of Perkins within four
(4) years after his/her recall or resignation. (Res. 1-2022, 2-1-2022, Election
held 4-5-2022)
Section 2-13. Commission: Vacancies
The commission, by majority vote of its remaining members, shall fill vacancies
in its own membership, including the office of mayor, for the unexpired terms
or until successors are elected as provided in this section. If a vacancy
occurs before the beginning of a regular filing period for candidates for mayor
or commissioner, and the unexpired term extends beyond 7:30 o'clock P.M. on the
next first Monday in May, then a mayor or commissioner for that place shall be
elected at the elections of that year to serve the rest of the unexpired term
beginning at 7:30 o'clock P.M. on said first Monday following election and
certification of such commissioner.
If the commission fails to call a special election or fails to fill a vacancy
in its membership within sixty (60) days after the vacancy begins, then the
mayor or acting mayor shall issue a proclamation calling a special election to
fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. Any special election held under this
section shall be held not less than thirty (30) days nor more than forty (40)
days after issuance of the proclamation. There shall be no primary election for
this purpose. The candidate receiving the greatest number of votes at the
election shall be elected, and shall serve for the unexpired term. The
provisions of this charter relating to regular elections shall govern such
special elections insofar as they are applicable. After issuance of such
proclamation, the commission may not fill the vacancy.
Section 2-14. Commission: Quorum, Rules, Yeas And Nays
A majority of all the members of the commission shall constitute a quorum, but
a smaller number may adjourn from day to day or from time to time. The
commission may determine its own rules of procedure and order.
Section 2-15. Mayor And Commissioners Prohibited From Appointment
Neither the mayor nor any commissioner shall be appointed to any office created
by the mayor and commission during the term of office of such officer until the
expiration of one year after completion of the term of office of such
commissioner.
Section 2-16. Former Officers Retained
All officers, appointees, and employees of the present corporation of the city
of Perkins, except the mayor, city clerk, city treasurer and councilmen, shall
continue in their respective offices and employment upon adoption of this
charter and the organization of the new city government until their services
are dispensed with by order of the commission or the city manager. The
commission shall by majority vote fill all vacancies where this charter
provides for appointments to be made by the commission; the city manager shall
fill all vacancies where this charter provides for the appointment to be made
by the city manager.
ARTICLE III. CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Section 3-1. City Manager: Appointment, Terms, Qualifications, Removal
There shall be a city manager. The commission shall appoint the city manager
for an indefinite term by a vote of a majority of all its members. It shall
choose the city manager solely on the basis of executive and administrative
qualifications. At the time of appointment, such person need not be a resident
of the city or state; but, within one year of taking office, the board of
commissioners may require that such person live within a five (5) mile radius
of the corporate limits of the city of Perkins and continue to reside in such
area during the city manager's term of office. Neither the mayor nor any other
commissioner may be appointed city manager or acting city manager during the
term for which such person shall have been elected nor within one (1) year
after the expiration of his term. The commission may suspend or remove the city
manager at any time by a vote of a majority of all its members.
Section 3-2. Acting City Manager
If the city manager is absent from the city or is unable to perform the duties
of city manager, if the commission suspends the city manager, or if there is a
vacancy in the office of city manager, the commission may appoint an acting
city manager, for a period of time not to exceed one (1) year, to serve until
the city manager returns, until such disability or suspension ceases, or until
another city manager is appointed and qualifies, as the case may be. The
commission may suspend or remove an acting city manager at any time.
Section 3-3. City Manager: Powers And Duties
The city manager shall be chief administrative officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall execute
the laws and ordinances and administer the government of the city, and shall be
responsible therefor to the commission. The city manager shall:
(1) Appoint department heads of the city, subject to approval of the city
commission, appoint all other employees of the city, and when deemed necessary
for the good of the service, lay off, suspend, demote or remove the librarian,
all directors, or heads, of administrative departments and all other
administrative officers and employees of the city except personnel in the
office of the city attorney, except the city manager or the commission by
ordinance or this charter may authorize the head of a department, an officer or
an agency to appoint, lay off, suspend, demote and/or remove subordinates in
such department, office or agency;
(2) Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all administrative
departments, agencies, officers and employees appointed as provided immediately
above;
(3) Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the commission, be responsible
for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect, and recommend
to the commission any changes in the budget which the city manager deems
desirable;
(4) Submit to the commission a report as of the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
(5) Keep the commission advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city, and make such recommendations on matters of policy and other matters
to the commission as may seem to the city manager desirable;
(6) To see that all laws and ordinances governing the city of Perkins are
enforced;
(7) To exercise actual management, control and supervision of and over all
departments of the city government, and to exercise all other administrative
functions, except as otherwise in this charter provided;
(8) To supervise and manage all public work of the city and the repair and
maintenance thereof, to manage and control the public utilities of the city,
and have general charge of the cleaning, lighting, and improving of the
streets, parks, sidewalks, bridges, and public grounds within and without the
city, except as otherwise herein provided;
(9) To make a monthly report to the commission and to attend all meetings of
the commission with the right to take part in the discussions but having no
vote;
(10) To see that all franchise rights and provisions are justly enforced;
(11) To submit to the mayor and commission at each meeting thereof an order of
business covering recommendations of the city manager;
(12) To create such departments for the more efficient and economical
administration of the affairs of the city as the city manager shall deem
necessary and expedient, subject to the approval of the commission;
(13) To have power at any time to investigate the affairs of any department and
make recommendations to the commission;
(14) Have such other powers, duties and functions as this charter may
prescribe, and such powers, duties and functions consistent with this charter
as the commission may prescribe.
Section 3-4. Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies
There shall be such administrative departments, offices and agencies as this
charter establishes and as the commission may establish by ordinance. Each
administrative department shall be headed by a director with appropriate title
appointed by the city manager subject to approval of the city commission except
in case of the city attorney, or by a board whose members are appointed by the
city manager, as this charter or the commission by ordinance may determine.
Section 3-5. Department Of Finance: Directors: Duties
There shall be a director of finance, who shall be an officer of the city
appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term with approval of the
commission, and who shall be director, or head, of the department of finance;
provided, that the city manager may remove or suspend the director of finance
without approval of the commission. Subject to such regulations as the
commission may prescribe, the director of finance, with assistance of other
personnel in the department, shall collect or receive revenue and other money
for the city; shall be responsible for its custody, safekeeping, deposit,
investment, and disbursement, in accordance with this charter and the
ordinances of the city; and shall maintain a general accounting system for the
city government; provided that the commission by ordinance may transfer any of
said duties to other personnel in the department.
Section 3-6. City Attorney
There shall be a city attorney, who shall be an officer of the city appointed
by the commission for an indefinite term, and who shall be director, or head,
of the department of law. The commission shall appoint all other personnel in
the department unless it delegates the power to appoint designated personnel to
the city attorney. The city attorney shall, on request, advise the commission,
the city manager, and all other officers and agencies of the city government
regarding their legal powers, duties and functions, and draft or assist in
drafting legal documents. The city attorney or an attorney in the department
shall represent the city as attorney in all civil and criminal proceedings in
which the city is interested unless the commission secures special counsel for
particular proceedings.
Section 3-7. Municipal Judge
There shall be a municipal judge, who shall be appointed by the commission for
an indefinite term and who shall preside as the head of the municipal court
system.
ARTICLE IV. FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 4-1. Purchases
(a) The city manager, subject to any regulations which the commission may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorizations
for, all supplies, materials, and equipment for the offices, departments and
agencies of the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an
amount to be established by ordinance, shall require the prior approval of the
commission. The city manager also may transfer to or between offices,
departments, and agencies, surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, and
equipment, subject to such regulations as the commission may prescribe.
(b) The city manager may transfer some or all of the powers granted to the city
manager under this section to an officer or employee appointed by and
subordinate to the city manager, and may revoke any such transfer of powers.
Section 4-2. Contract For Public Improvement
All contracts pertaining to public improvements, maintenance of public
property, and public purchase of supplies, involving an outlay of as much as
$12,500.00 or such number as may be enacted and authorized by the state of
Oklahoma pursuant to the provisions of title 61, OS section 1 et seq., shall be
made by the board of commissioners and shall be based upon the specifications
provided by said board. All such contracts shall be let and awarded to the
lowest and best value bidder, by free and open competitive bidding after
solicitation for sealed bids, and no work shall be commenced until a written
contract is executed. Such contract shall be entered into only after
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in said city of Perkins on
the same day for two (2) consecutive weeks, that the first publication thereof
to be at least twenty (20) days prior to the date set for opening of bids. Such
competitive bid shall be sealed and one (1) copy of each bid shall be filed
with the city clerk; each bidder shall accompany his bid with a sworn statement
in writing that the bidder has not directly or indirectly entered into any
agreement expressed or implied with any other bidder or bidders having for its
object the control of the price and amount of such bid or bids, or limiting of
the bids or bidders or other person of any part of the contract or any part of
the subject matter of the bid, or the parts thereof. No bidder shall divulge
said sealed bid to any person whatever, except those having partnership or
other financial interests with such bidder in said bid until after said sealed
bids are opened. The violation of any of the foregoing provisions on the part
of the bidder shall make void any contract made by such bidder with said city
based upon said bid. The awarding of a contract upon a successful bid shall
give the bidder no right of action or claim against the city upon such contract
until the same shall have been reduced to writing and duly signed by the
contracting parties. All bids filed with the city clerk shall be opened in the
presence of the board of commissioners, and any bid received by the city clerk
more than ninety six (96) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
before the time set for the opening of bids, or any bids so received after the
time set for opening of bids, shall not be considered by the board of
commissioners and shall be returned unopened to the bidder submitting same. The
board of commissioners shall consider said bids and may reject all bids and
readvertise for bids, or may enter into a contract with the party offering the
lowest responsible bid, or may have such work done under the supervision of the
proper department and keep account of the expenses thereof.
Provided that the Perkins city commission, by ordinance, may authorize and
create a bidding preference for those bidders located within the corporate
limits of the city of Perkins.
Pending advertisement or bids, the plans and specifications and profiles shall
remain on file in the office of the city clerk subject to inspection of any
person for the safeguarding of the interests of the city. The board of
commissioners shall make such regulations providing for the filing of the
estimate of the cost furnished them by the city engineer or anyone acting as
such engineer as they deem best. The board of commissioners shall have power to
require all bidders to make bonds or cash deposits as they may deem proper to
secure the performance of the contract, and to secure and guarantee the payment
of all claims for material and labor used and employed in the completion of the
work provided to be done in said contract.
Section 4-3. Surplus And Obsolete Property
When property of the city becomes obsolete or surplus, and no longer needed by
said city, the city commission shall determine the value thereof, before the
same is offered for sale. If the city commission determines that such property
to be offered for sale is surplus, obsolete and no longer needed then and in
that event the city commission may direct and authorize the city manager to
dispose of such surplus or obsolete property pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes.
Section 4-4. Sale Of Property
The sale or lease of the city property, real or personal, or the sale or other
disposal of any interest therein the value of which property, lease, or
interest is greater than an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the city of
Perkins general fund budget for the most immediate prior fiscal year budget or
the amount of $75,000.00 whichever amount is smaller shall be made only:
(1) By authority of an ordinance approved or enacted at an election by an
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified voters of the city who vote on
the question of approving or enacting the ordinance (the ordinance being
submitted to the voters by the commission or by initiative of the voters); or
(2) By authority of a nonemergency ordinance passed by the commission, which
shall be published in full in a newspaper authorized by law to publish legal
publications within ten (10) days after its passage, and which shall include a
section reading substantially as follows:
"Section           . If one or more petitions with signatures signed by a
number of residents of the City of Perkins equal to not less than five (5)
percent of the City's total population as determined by the most recent federal
decennial census are properly filed within thirty (30) days after passage and
publication of this ordinance, this ordinance shall not go into effect until
the petition or petitions are finally found to be illegal and/or insufficient,
or, if any such petition is found legal and sufficient, until the ordinance is
approved at an election by a majority of the qualified voters voting on the
question. If no petition with signatures is filed, this ordinance shall go into
effect thirty (30) days after its passage and publication."
Section 4-5. Purchase Of Property
The purchase of any property, real or personal, or the acquisition of any
interest therein the value of which property, lease, or interest is greater
than an amount equal to four percent (4%) of the city of Perkins general fund
budget for the most immediate prior fiscal year budget or the amount of
$65,000.00 whichever amount is smaller shall be made only:
(1) By authority of an ordinance approved or enacted at an election by an
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified voters of the city who vote on
the question of approving or enacting the ordinance (the ordinance being
submitted to the voters by the commission or by initiative of the voters); or
(2) By authority of a nonemergency ordinance passed by the commission, which
shall be published in full in a newspaper authorized by law to publish legal
publications within ten (10) days after its passage, and which shall include a
section reading substantially as follows:
"Section           . If one or more petitions with signatures signed by a
number of residents of the City of Perkins equal to not less than five (5)
percent of the City's total population as determined by the most recent federal
decennial census are properly filed within thirty (30) days after passage and
publication of this ordinance, this ordinance shall not go into effect until
the petition or petitions are finally found to be illegal and/or insufficient,
or, if any such petition is found legal and sufficient, until the ordinance is
approved at an election by a majority of the qualified voters voting on the
question. If no petition with signatures is filed, this ordinance shall go into
effect thirty (30) days after its passage and publication."
Section 4-6. Approval Of Claims
Every officer who shall approve, allow or pay any demand on the city of Perkins
not authorized by law, ordinance or this charter shall be liable to the city
individually and on such officer's official bond for the amount so illegally
approved, allowed or paid.
Section 4-7. Claims
Except as otherwise provided by the statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the
commission shall by ordinance provide the process for the approval for payment
and processing of claims and warrants against the city of Perkins.
Section 4-8. Capital Improvements Enacted By Voters
The voters of the city of Perkins shall have the power to authorize the city to
levy and collect a separate annual tax for capital improvement purposes on all
real, mixed and personal property in the city, not exempt from taxation by the
constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma; provided, that for the purpose
of creating a capital improvement fund, such fund is to be used exclusively for
capital improvements within the city of Perkins. No such capital improvement
tax shall be imposed until such time as the question of imposing a capital
improvement tax shall have been submitted by the city to a vote by the voters
of the city of Perkins and the majority of the qualified voters of such city
voting at such election shall vote therefor. Provided that such question to be
voted on shall state that such tax shall be in an amount of mills on the dollar
of the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the city as approved by
the voters of the city of Perkins and that such tax shall not be in any larger
amount until again voted upon. Further that any such capital improvement tax as
authorized by a majority vote of the voters shall be for a maximum term of ten
(10) years. Upon the expiration of any capital improvement tax as authorized by
the voters no vote on any new, continued or additional capital improvement tax
shall occur until after a period of two (2) years. Any capital improvement tax
authorized under this section shall be in addition to and not a replacement for
any sales tax or other revenue producing measure intended for use to satisfy
any other indebtedness, obligation or bond of the city of Perkins and is not
intended to prohibit the enactment of any other indebtedness, obligation or
bond that might otherwise be allowed by statute or the constitution of the
state of Oklahoma.
Section 4-9. Ad Valorem Taxation
(1) The assessment of property of whatsoever kind in the city of Perkins, for
the purpose of levying thereon an ad valorem tax for the city of Perkins,
Oklahoma, shall be made by such officer and in all respects in the same manner
as is provided by the constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma, or may
hereafter be provided by the constitution and laws of the said state, for the
assessment of property in cities of the first class for ad valorem taxation
purposes, and all property not rendered shall be assessed in the same manner as
is or may hereafter be provided in the laws of the state applicable to cities
of the first class.
(2) The ad valorem taxes for the city of Perkins shall hereafter be levied in
the same manner and by the same persons or officers as is provided by the
constitution or laws of the state of Oklahoma, or as may hereafter be provided
by the laws of the state of Oklahoma, applicable to cities of the first class,
unless provision shall exist in such laws with special reference to cities
having a charter form of government, in which case such levy shall be made in
the manner provided by such laws.
Section 4-10. Public Indebtedness
In pursuance of the statutes and constitution of the state of Oklahoma, the
powers of the city of Perkins, insofar as they pertain to the incurring of any
public indebtedness by the city of Perkins, and the manner of incurring such
indebtedness shall be in conformity with the constitution and general laws of
the state of Oklahoma relating thereto.
Section 4-11. Independent Annual Audit
The commission shall designate a qualified certified public accountant or
accountants who shall make an independent audit of the accounts and evidences
of financial transactions of the department of finance and of all other
departments of the city of Perkins, the Perkins public works authority, the
Perkins industrial development authority, and any other subordinate or related
entities and all other offices and agencies keeping separate or subordinate
accounts or making financial transactions as of the end of every fiscal year at
least, and who shall report to the commission and to the city manager. In lieu
of the above, the commission may arrange with an appropriate state authority
for such an audit when and if permitted by law.
Section 4-12. Budgets
The commission, the governing board of the Perkins public works authority, the
governing board of the Perkins industrial development authority and the
governing board of any other subordinate or related entity to the city of
Perkins shall prepare annually a fiscal year budget and approve same as the
annual operating budget for such commission or board.
Section 4-13. Compensation
The compensation of all appointive officers and employees shall be fixed and no
compensation shall be paid to any such officer or employee, except for the
salary or compensation pertaining to such office or position.
Section 4-14. Contracts
No contract shall be entered into by the city commission in excess of the
amount appropriated, and no contract shall be binding upon the city unless it
has been signed by the mayor or acting mayor, and attested by the city clerk
and the expense thereof encumbered in the proper fund liable for the payment of
the same, and whenever the contracts encumbered in any fund equal the
appropriation made therefor, no further contract shall be signed by the mayor
or attested by the city clerk for payment from such fund.
Section 4-15. Conflict Of Interest
(1) No officer or employee of said city shall give or promise to give to any
other person, any portion of such officer's compensation or any money or
valuable thing or promise of employment to any person in consideration of
having been or being nominated, appointed, voted for or elected to any office
or employment, and if such promise or gift be made, the person making or
accepting such gifts or promise shall forfeit office or employment and be
debarred and disqualified from being elected, appointed, or employed in the
service of said city.
(2) Any officer of said city who shall, while in office, accept any donation or
gratuity in money or other valuable thing, either directly or indirectly from
any person or corporation, or any subordinate or employee or from any candidate
or applicant for any position as employee or subordinate under such officer
shall forfeit office and be forever debarred and disqualified from holding any
position in the service of the city.
(3) Neither the mayor or any member of the city commission nor appointed
employee of the city, shall be directly or indirectly in the employ of any
person, company or corporation holding or seeking to hold any franchise of the
city or shall receive directly or indirectly any wages, commission, gifts, or
favor or payment from any such franchise holder; and any violation of this
section shall render vacant, ipso facto, the position held by the person so
violating it, and said person shall be punished as for bribery.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in this section the commission shall not make
any contract with any of its members or with any employee of the city or with
any company, individual or business concern in which any of its members or
employees of the city shall be directly or indirectly interested. All contracts
made in violation of this section shall be wholly void. A member of the
commission shall be considered to be interested in any contract made with any
company, individual, or any business concern if the member of the commission or
any member of the immediate family of the member owns any substantial interest
in same.
(5) It shall be unlawful for any candidate for office or for any officer or
employee of the city, directly or indirectly, to give or promise to give to any
person or persons, any office, position, employment, or anything of value, for
the purpose of influencing or obtaining support, political or otherwise, aid,
or influence of any person or persons; the doing of any such things shall be
grounds for removal from office of such officer, employee or candidate, if
elected.
(6) The mayor, each other commissioner and the city manager shall, within
thirty (30) days after taking office, file with the city clerk a statement of
economic interest as provided for herein. Such statement shall be kept current
and up-to-date at all times the person holds office.
The statement of economic interest required herein shall be on a form
prescribed by the city commission and contain the identity of all offices and
directorships held and a list of business or firms in which the commissioner or
city manager owns ten (10) percent or more interest and that do business with
or are regulated by the city of Perkins. In addition the commissioner or city
manager shall divulge at the time of consideration any real estate interest
within one thousand (1,000) feet of any property consideration that may come
before the city commission of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 4-16. Nepotism
(1) Neither the city manager, the commission, nor any other authority of the
city government, may appoint or elect any person related to the mayor or any
other commissioner, to the city manager, or to such officer or commissioner, or
in the case of a plural authority, to one of its members, by affinity or
consanguinity within the second degree, to any office or position of profit in
the city government; but this shall not prohibit an officer or employee already
in the service of the city from continuing therein.
(2) Except as may be otherwise provided by this charter or by ordinance, the
same person may hold more than one office in the city government. The city
manager may hold more than one such office, through appointment by the city
manager, by the commission, or by other city authority having power to fill the
particular office, subject to any regulations which commission may make by
ordinance; but such person may not receive compensation for service in such
other offices. Also the commission by ordinance may provide that the city
manager shall hold ex officio designated offices subordinate to the city
manager as well as other designated compatible city offices, notwithstanding
any other provision of this charter.
ARTICLE V. ELECTIONS
Section 5-1. General Election Dates
A general election shall be held every year. The commissioners elected
hereafter shall be numbered one (1), two (2), three (3), and four (4).
In 2001 and every third year thereafter, a mayor shall be elected for a term of
three (3) years. After the initial election in 2001 referred to herein, in 2002
and every third year thereafter, commissioner no. 2 and commissioner no. 4
shall be elected for a term of three (3) years. After the initial election in
2001 referred to herein, in 2003 and every third year thereafter, commissioner
no. 1 and commissioner no. 3 shall be elected for terms of three (3) years.
The terms of the mayor and other commissioners shall begin at 7:30 o'clock P.M.
on the first Monday following their election and certification. If a mayor-
elect or a commissioner-elect fails to qualify within one month after the
beginning of such term, the election shall be void.
The mayor and other commissioners shall serve for the terms for which they are
elected and until successors are elected and qualify.
Section 5-2. Filing
Any qualified person as defined by this charter may have such person's name
placed on the ballot for the general election as a candidate for mayor or
commissioner by filing, with the secretary of the Payne County election board,
a sworn statement of candidacy for the particular office for which such person
is a candidate. Such statement of candidacy may be filed with the secretary of
the county election board no earlier than 8:00 A.M. on the first Monday in
February annually and no later than 5:00 P.M. on the next succeeding Wednesday.
Any candidate may contest the candidacy of any other candidate for the same
office by filing a written petition with the secretary of the county election
board with whom said candidate filed the statement of candidacy. In the event
only one candidate files for an office, a petition contesting such candidacy
may be filed by any registered voter. Said petition must be filed no later than
5:00 P.M. on the second day following the closing of the filing period.
Section 5-3. Election Procedures
A general election shall be held on the date established by the general
elections laws of the state of Oklahoma, or in the absence of such legislation,
by ordinance, every year to elect a mayor or commissioners to succeed the mayor
or commissioners whose terms are expiring, as the case may be. Every qualified
elector of the city shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for each office
to be filled. The instruction "vote for one" shall be placed between the title
of the office and the names of the candidates. The candidate for an office
receiving the greater number of votes shall be elected. In case of failure to
elect because of a tie, the election shall be determined fairly by lot in a
meeting of the county election board and under its direction, from among the
candidates tying.
Section 5-4. Nonpartisan
Municipal elections shall be nonpartisan and all candidates shall file as
independent candidates. No primary elections shall be held in a nonpartisan
election.
Section 5-5. Vacancy
When a mayor, commissioner or commissioners are being elected to fill a vacancy
or vacancies for the rest of the unexpired terms, the provisions of this
article shall apply as in the election of mayor and commissioners for regular
terms, insofar as they are applicable. The phrase "for unexpired term" shall be
placed after the title of an office on the ballot in such a case, for the
information of the electors.
Section 5-6. Unopposed Candidacy
If there is only one candidate for a particular office, the candidate shall be
not only nominated, but also elected ipso facto; and his name shall not appear
on the ballots for the general election. If there is only one candidate for
each of the offices which are to be filled at the election, and no questions
are to be voted upon at the election, the general municipal election shall not
be held.
Section 5-7. Voting Qualifications
Only voters residing in this city who have the qualifications prescribed for
voters by the state constitution and law, and who are registered as may be
required by law, may vote in city elections.
Section 5-8. State Election Provisions
The provisions of the state constitution and law applicable to city elections,
shall govern such elections in this city insofar as they are applicable and are
not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
A proclamation of the mayor calling a special election shall give the locations
of polling places.
Section 5-9. Absentee Ballots
Absentee ballots may be provided for in elections conducted under the
provisions of this charter. Provided, however, this section shall not prohibit
the board of commissioners by ordinance from establishing conditions for the
use of absentee ballots in the municipal elections held under these provisions.
ARTICLE VI. MUNICIPAL COURT
Section 6-1. Judicial Department: Municipal Court Created
The judicial power of the city of Perkins shall be vested in the municipal
court created by this charter. The municipal judge shall be judge of the
municipal court and all trials and proceedings in said court shall be heard and
determined by the municipal judge, which court shall have and possess the
jurisdiction and powers possessed by municipal courts under the statutes of the
state of Oklahoma.
Section 6-2. Municipal Judge
Such court shall be presided over by a judge, to be known as the municipal
judge, whose appointment shall be made, duties defined, and compensation fixed
by the board of commissioners.
Section 6-3. Municipal Court
The municipal court shall have original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality where the
court is established is charged. The municipal judge shall keep a record of all
proceedings of the municipal court, of the disposition of all cases, and of all
fines and other money collected. The municipal judge may issue warrants and
subpoenas, administer oaths and affirmations, make and enforce all proper
orders, rules and judgments, and punish for contempt.
Section 6-4. Appeals From Municipal Court
An appeal may be taken from a final judgment of the municipal court by the
defendant by filing in the district court of Payne County within ten (10) days
from the date of the final judgment a notice of appeal and by filing a copy of
the notice with the municipal court. No such appeal shall be allowed unless the
defendant shall enter into a recognizance with good and sufficient sureties to
be approved by the municipal judge, conditioned for the personal appearance of
the appellant before the district court of the Payne County, in the amount of
the judgment and costs; provided that in no case shall the bond be less than
$50.00.
Section 6-5. Fines Paid To The City Clerk Of The City Of Perkins
All fines, penalties, forfeitures and collections made by said municipal court
shall be the property of the city and shall be immediately deposited with the
city clerk for the use of the city.
Section 6-6. Municipal Court Rules And Regulations
The board of commissioners may provide by ordinance all rules and regulations
necessary for the prompt and efficient conduct of the business of said
municipal court, not inconsistent with this charter.
Section 6-7. Forfeit Of Bonds
In all cases of breach of any bonds, or recognizance entered into before the
municipal court same shall be declared forfeited by the judge of the municipal
court and the city attorney shall cause the same to be prosecuted against the
principal and sureties, or the sureties alone.
Section 6-8. Fines May Be Remitted
The board of commissioners shall have power on recommendation of the municipal
judge to remit fines and grant pardons after convictions in the municipal court
of the city of Perkins.
ARTICLE VII. ORDINANCES
Section 7-1. Ordinances: Enacting Clause
The style of all ordinances shall be, "BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF PERKINS", but such caption may be omitted when said ordinances are
revised and digested under the order of the commission, or when they are
published in book form.
Section 7-2. Ordinances: Title
Every ordinance adopted by the commission shall embrace but one subject, which
shall be clearly expressed in its title. No repealed ordinance shall be
revived, amended, or the provisions thereof extended or conferred by reference
to title only; but so much thereof as is revived, amended, extended or
conferred shall be re-enacted and published at length; provided, that if any
subject be embraced in any ordinance contrary to the provisions of this
section, such ordinance shall be void only as to so much of the ordinance as
may not be expressed in the title thereof.
Section 7-3. Ordinances: Passage
Three members of the commission shall constitute a quorum, the mayor being
counted as a member, and the affirmative vote of at least three members shall
be necessary to adopt any motion or resolution or pass any ordinance, or other
measure.
Section 7-4. Ordinances: Effective Date
All ordinances passed by the commission, except emergency ordinances, shall
take effect and become valid at the end of thirty days (30) from the date of
passage of such ordinance unless such ordinance specifies at a later time. All
ordinances shall be published in full or by title in a newspaper meeting the
requirements of the statutes of the state of Oklahoma in respect to legal
publications, published and of general circulation within the city of Perkins,
such publication to be within ten days (10) from the passage of the ordinance.
Section 7-5. Emergency Ordinance
An emergency ordinance is an ordinance, which in the judgment of the
commission, is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health, or
safety, and which should become effective prior to the time an ordinary
ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as a part
of its title, the words, "and declaring an emergency" and in a separate
section, herein called the emergency section, shall declare the emergency. The
commission shall vote on the emergency section separately. An affirmative vote
of at least four (4) commissioners shall be required for passage of an
emergency ordinance, which vote shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be entered
in the journal. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon passage and
publication unless it specifies at a later time.
Section 7-6. Ordinances: Adoption By Reference
The commission by ordinance may adopt by reference codes, ordinances, standards
and regulations relating to buildings, plumbing, electrical installations and
other matters which it has power to regulate otherwise. Such code, ordinance,
standard or regulations so adopted need not be enrolled in the book of
ordinances, but a copy shall be filed and kept in the office of the city clerk.
The city clerk shall keep copies of all such codes, ordinances, standards and
regulations in force for distribution or sale at their approximate cost.
Section 7-7. Ordinances: Codification
The ordinances of the city shall be codified and published in book or pamphlet
form at least every ten years (10) unless the commission, by use of a looseleaf
system and process of amendment, keeps the code up to date. Titles, enacting
clauses, and emergency sections may be omitted from the code, and temporary and
special ordinances and parts of ordinances may be omitted. Permanent general
ordinances and parts of ordinances which are to be repealed by the code shall
be omitted from the code. The ordinances and parts of ordinances included in
the code may be revised, rearranged and reorganized; and the code may contain
new matter, provisions of the state constitution and law relating to the city
of Perkins and provisions of this charter. A copy of the published code shall
be filed in the office of the city clerk after adoption by the commission, but
the code need not be enrolled in the book of ordinances.
Section 7-8. Ordinances Admitted As Evidence
All printed ordinances or codes of ordinances published by authority of the
commission, shall, in all judicial proceedings, in all courts, be admitted in
evidence, and in such proceedings it shall not be necessary to plead the entire
ordinances or section, but only such parts thereof as are offered in evidence.
ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 8-1. Charter Amendments By Commission
An amendment or amendments to this charter, or a substitute for this charter
may be proposed by the board of commissioners and such proposed amendment or
amendments or such substitute charter shall, with yeas and nays thereon be
entered in the journal, and referred by the Payne County election board to the
people of the city of Perkins for their approval or rejection, at the next
regular general election, except when the board of commissioners by a unanimous
vote order a special election for the purpose. If a majority of all the
electors voting at such election shall vote in favor of any amendments thereto,
it shall be submitted to the governor of the state of Oklahoma and on approval
one (1) copy thereof shall be deposited in the office of the secretary of
state, and the other after being recorded in the office of the county clerk of
Payne County, shall be deposited in the archives of the city, and said
amendment shall become a part of this charter. If a majority of all of the
electors voting in any such election shall vote in favor of a substitute for
this charter, it shall be submitted to the governor of the state of Oklahoma,
and on approval a copy thereof shall be deposited in the office of the
secretary of state, and another copy after being recorded in the office of the
county clerk of Payne County shall be deposited in the archives of the city.
Said substitute charter shall then supersede this charter and become the
organic law of the city of Perkins. If two or more amendments are proposed,
they shall be submitted in such manner that the electors may vote for them or
against them separately; provided that this section shall not impair the right
of the people to amend this charter by a vote upon an initiative petition
therefore.
Section 8-2. Charter Amendment By Petition
Any amendment to this charter or substitute for this charter may be submitted
to the board of commissioners by a petition signed by a number of residents of
Perkins equal to twenty percent (20%) of the number of votes cast in the most
recent city of Perkins general municipal election. All petitions circulated
with respect to any proposed amendment or proposed substitute charter shall be
uniform in character, shall contain the proposed amendment or substitute
charter in full, and shall have printed or written thereon the names and
addresses of at least five (5) electors, who shall be officially regarded as
filing the petition, and shall constitute a committee of the petitioners for
the purposes hereinafter mentioned. Each signer of the petition shall sign such
person's name in ink, and shall place on the petition opposite such person's
name and the date of the signature, and such person's place of residence by
voting precinct and by street number; provided that if there be no street
number such person may give the number of the lot and block on which the house
in which such person lives is located. The signatures on any such petition need
not all be appended to one paper, but on each paper there shall be attached an
affidavit by the circulator thereof stating the number of signatures to such
part of the petition, and that each signature appended to the paper is the
genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be and that it was
made in the presence of the affiant, and on the date indicated. All papers
comprising the petition shall be assembled and filed with the city clerk as one
instrument, within sixty (60) days from the date of the first signature
thereon, and when so filed with the city clerk shall submit the same to the
board of commissioners at its next regular meeting. When said petition has been
filed, signed by twenty percent (20%) of the qualified voters of the city of
Perkins, as determined by the highest number of votes cast at the next
preceding general municipal election, it shall be the duty of the board of
commissioners through its chairman to call a special election within thirty
(30) days from the date of their first meeting after the filing of said
petition with the city clerk for the purpose of submitting to the voters of the
city of Perkins for their ratification the proposed amendment, or the proposed
substitute charter. If the majority of the voters at such election vote in
favor of adopting such amendment or amendments, or substitute charter, the same
shall be submitted to the governor of the state of Oklahoma and on approval, a
copy thereof shall be filed in the office of the county clerk of Payne County,
shall be deposited in the archives of the city, and the same shall immediately
become effective as an amendment or amendments to this charter, or a substitute
for this charter.
Section 8-3. Initiative And Referendum
In pursuance of the constitution of the state of Oklahoma, the powers of
initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified electors in the city of
Perkins, insofar as they may affect legislation enacted by the city commission,
and the manner of exercising such rights shall be in conformity with the
constitution and general laws of the state of Oklahoma relating thereto.
Section 8-4. Municipal Powers
The city of Perkins shall have all other powers that may thereafter be given it
by the constitution and the laws of this state, and where any provision of this
charter shall be in conflict with any laws relating to cities of the first
class in force at the time of the adoption and approval of this charter, the
provisions of this charter shall operate as a repeal or suspension of such
state law or laws to the extent of such conflict, and said city shall have the
power to enact and enforce all ordinances necessary to protect the health, life
and property and to prevent and summarily abate and remove nuisances and
preserve and enforce good government and order for the security of the city and
its inhabitants, to protect the lives, health and property of the city, and to
enact and enforce all ordinances upon any subject; provided, that no ordinance
shall be enacted inconsistent with the constitution and general laws of the
state or with this charter.
Section 8-5. Bonds Of Officers And Employees
The officers and employees of the city of Perkins as may be required by the
board of commissioners shall execute such bond as the board of commissioners
may by ordinance require; the cost of such bonds to be paid by the city. The
board of commissioners shall also provide for the proper recording of the said
bonds when they are accepted and approved.
Section 8-6. Reservation Of Control Over Public Highways
No grant, extension or renewal of any franchise or other use of the streets,
alleys or other public grounds of this municipality, shall divest the city of
its control and regulation of such use and enjoyment. Nor shall the power to
regulate the charges for public services be surrendered and no exclusive
franchise shall ever be granted.
Section 8-7. Commission To Frame Law
The commission shall be vested with the power of adopting all laws and
ordinances not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this state for
the taxation, regulation, and control of all public service and public utility
corporations now or hereafter existing or operating in whole or in part within
the city.
Section 8-8. Power Of Taxation Over Public Service Corporations
All grants and renewals of franchises and privileges shall reserve to the city
the right to terminate the same and to purchase all the property of the utility
in the streets, avenues, alleys and public places in the city and elsewhere as
may be provided in the franchise making the grant or renewal, used in or useful
for the operation of the utility, at such prices as may be agreed upon between
the owner and the city; and in the event of disagreement the same may at the
option of the city be submitted to arbitration under the arbitration laws of
the state of Oklahoma; or in the event no arbitration agreement can be reached,
then the city may obtain such property by condemnation under the eminent domain
laws of the state of Oklahoma.
Section 8-9. Purchase Price
No franchise making such grant or renewal shall be valid unless it shall
expressly provide therein that the price to be paid by the city for the
property that may be acquired by it from such utility, by purchase,
condemnation or otherwise shall exclude all value of such grant or renewal.
Section 8-10. Officers And Employees Qualifications
Officers and employees of the city shall have the qualifications prescribed by
this charter and such additional qualifications as the commission may
prescribe; but the commission shall not prescribe additional qualifications for
commissioners.
Section 8-11. Oath Of Office
Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of office, shall
take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the state
constitution. The oath or affirmation shall be filed and kept in the city
clerk's office.
Section 8-12. Who May Administer Oath
All officers authorized by federal or state law, the mayor, the city manager,
the city clerk, the city attorney, the municipal judge and such other officers
as the commission may authorize, may administer oaths and affirmations.
Section 8-13. Removal Of Officers And Employees
The power of lay off, suspend, demote and remove accompanies the power to
appoint or elect; and the city manager, the commission, or other appointing or
electing authority may lay off, suspend, demote, or remove any officer or
employee to whom the city manager, the commission, or the other appointing or
electing authority respectively may appoint or elect a successor.
Section 8-14. Acting Officers And Employees
The appointing or electing authority who may appoint or elect the successor of
an officer or employee, may appoint or elect a person to act during the
temporary absence, disability or suspension of such officer or employee, or, in
case of a vacancy, until a successor is appointed or elected and qualifies,
unless the commission provides by ordinance that a particular superior or
subordinate of such officer or employee shall act. The commission by ordinance
may provide for a deputy to act in such cases.
Section 8-15. Officers To Continue Until Successor Elected Or Appointed
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a term ending at a definite time,
shall continue to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies unless such officer's services are sooner terminated by
resignation, removal, disqualification, death, abolition of the office or other
legal manner.
Section 8-16. Separability Clause
If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part of this
charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of this charter
nor the context in which such section or part so held invalid may appear,
except to the extent that another section or part may be inseparably connected
in meaning and effect with that section or part.
If a court of competent jurisdiction holds a part of this charter invalid, or
if a change in the state constitution or law renders a part of this charter
invalid or inapplicable, the commission by ordinance may take such appropriate
action as will enable the city government to function properly.
Section 8-17. Legal Notice Or Process
Every legal notice or process to be served upon the city shall be served upon
the city manager, or in the absence of the city manager upon the acting city
manager if any, or in the absence of both, then upon the mayor.
ARTICLE IX. SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Section 9-1. When Charter Goes Into Effect
If a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting on the question vote
to ratify this charter, this charter shall go into effect for the purposes of
election upon approval by the governor as provided by the state constitution,
and the charter shall go into full effect at the time of the seating of the
initial city commission elected after adoption and approval of this charter.
The commission shall hold its first meeting under this charter at the above
time when this charter goes into full effect.
Section 9-2. Officers And Employees To Continue
The incumbents of the offices of the commissioners and the incumbents of all
other offices and positions of employment (including members of boards,
commissions, and other plural authorities), at the time this charter goes into
effect, shall continue in their respective offices and positions of employment
under this charter until their respective terms expire or until their services
are terminated in accordance with the provisions of this charter and is elected
or appointed and qualifies unless services are sooner terminated by
resignation, removal, disqualification, death, abolition of the office or other
legal manner.
Section 9-3. Ordinances Continued
All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this charter, shall
continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their own
limitations.
Section 9-4. Pending Actions And Proceedings
The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes full effect, brought by or
against the municipality or any office, department, agency or officer thereof.
CERTIFICATE
I, the undersigned, being the mayor of the city of Perkins, do hereby certify
that the within and foregoing is the charter as amended by a vote of the
citizens of the city of Perkins on April 5, 2022.
In witness whereof, we have hereunto executed the foregoing charter as amended
this 12th day of July, 2022.
                                  
Carla Cummings
Mayor
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
PERKINS CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city commission, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Perkins. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the PERKINS CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city commission and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2012 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2012 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
All ordinances of the municipality now in effect within the municipality are
hereby extended to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the
municipality outside the corporate limits thereof, and shall be in full effect
therein, insofar as they are applicable. All ordinances of the municipality
which shall go into effect in the future shall also apply to and be in full
effect within the boundaries of all said outlying real property, insofar as
they may be applicable. Any words in any ordinance indicating that the effect
of an ordinance provision is limited to the corporate limits of the
municipality shall be deemed to mean and include also the said outlying real
property belonging to, or under the control of, the municipality, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise. (2010 Code § 10-4)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions,
any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which
will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person
violating this section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
A.   Tax levy ordinances;
B.   Appropriation ordinances;
C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract
or the issuance of warrants;
F.   Salary ordinances;
G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
H.   Improvement ordinances;
I.   Bond ordinances;
J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
L.   All special ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, except as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2012 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
A.   Reviving Prior Ordinances: The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any
ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the effective date hereof. (2012 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or any
codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The city
commission hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2010 Code § 10-5; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city commission may be fully
carried out.
B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the
day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
not be counted.
D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head
of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some duty,
it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer
to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act
or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
E.   Gender: Words used in the masculine gender in this code or other
ordinances of the city include the feminine and neuter unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Perkins".
K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2010 Code §§
10-1, 10-2; amd. 2012 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CHIEF OF POLICE OR POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police of the city of Perkins,
Oklahoma.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY OR TOWN: The city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CLERK, CLERK OF THE MUNICIPALITY OR CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city
of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CODE: The city code of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL: The city attorney of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   COUNCIL, GOVERNING BODY: The city commissioners of the city of Perkins,
Oklahoma.
   COUNTY OR THE COUNTY: The county of Payne, Oklahoma.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OR PRESIDENT OF THE CITY COMMISSIONERS: The
president of the city commission of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   OS: Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: A human being, firm, association, corporation, trustee, executor,
administrator, government agency or other legal entity.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   POLICE OFFICER: The chief of police or any deputy of the city of Perkins,
Oklahoma.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE OR THE STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2010 Code § 10-3; amd. 2012 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
A.   Whenever in this code or in other ordinances of the city, or in any rule,
regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city under
authority duly vested in him, or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, or an
offense, or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this code or any other ordinance of the
city, or such rule, regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), excluding costs.
B.   This section shall not apply to the penalty for traffic related offenses
relating to speeding or parking for which violation the punishment by fine
shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), excluding costs.
C.   This section shall not apply to the penalty for violations of this code
regulating the pretreatment of wastewater and regulating stormwater discharge
for which violation the punishment by fine shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), excluding costs.
D.   Except where otherwise provided, every day any violation of this code or
any other ordinance of the city, or such rule, regulation or order shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
E.   Any person fined for violation of a municipal ordinance, who is
financially able but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or costs, may be
compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets, alleys,
avenues, areas and public grounds of the city, under the direction of the city
manager or other proper officer, at a rate per hour equal to the prevailing
federal minimum wage, until the fine and costs are satisfied. (2010 Code § 14-
2)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Oklahoma Municipal League Membership Authorized
1-5-1: OKLAHOMA MUNICIPAL LEAGUE MEMBERSHIP AUTHORIZED:
The city is hereby authorized to procure the services of the Oklahoma municipal
league and to have membership therein, and to appropriate funds to pay for such
services and membership. (2010 Code § 10-6)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elective Officers
1-6-2: Mayor And Vice Mayor
1-6-3: Agenda And Meetings
1-6-4: Ordinances, Resolutions And Contracts
1-6-1: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
A.   Election Of Elective Officers: The officers of the city shall consist of
four (4) commissioners and one mayor, and shall be elected by the qualified
electors of the city at an election to be held as provided by the city charter
and the statutes of the state. All initiative and referendum questions shall be
decided only by elections conducted by the county election board pursuant to 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 15-101 et seq. (2010 Code § 1-1)
B.   General Election Dates: A general election shall be held every year on the
first Tuesday in April unless otherwise preempted by the general election laws
of the state. (2010 Code § 1-1.1)
1-6-2: MAYOR AND VICE MAYOR:
A.   Mayor:
   1.   Defined: When the words "mayor" or "chief executive officer" are used
in this code or in other ordinances of the city, they shall be deemed to mean
the chairperson of the city commission, unless another meaning is clearly
indicated by the context. (2010 Code § 1-4)
   2.   Duties: The chairperson of the city commission shall preside over
meetings of the commission, and may call special meetings thereof. The mayor
shall sign all warrants properly and legally drawn upon the city. The mayor
shall perform all other duties prescribed by law or ordinance. In the absence
of the mayor or if the mayor is unable to act, the vice mayor shall preside.
(2010 Code § 1-5)
B.   Vice Mayor: The vice mayor shall be elected by the commission from among
its members, and shall serve for a term of one year, unless he sooner dies,
resigns, or is removed by the commission. Said vice mayor shall be elected each
year at the first city commission meeting held after the commission term
begins. (2010 Code § 1-5.1)
1-6-3: AGENDA AND MEETINGS:
A.   Agenda: All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents and other matters to be submitted to the commission shall at least
seventy two (72) hours prior to each commission meeting be delivered to the
city clerk, whereupon he shall immediately arrange a list of such matters
according to the order of business and furnish each member of the commission
and the city attorney with a copy of the same prior to the commission meeting
and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. (2010
Code § 1-13)
B.   Meetings:
   1.   Regular Meetings: The city commission shall hold regular meetings the
second Tuesday of every month at the hour of six o'clock (6:00) P.M.; provided,
that if any Tuesday falls on a holiday there will be no regular commission
meeting that week, and instead, a commission meeting will be held the next day
that is not a holiday.
   2.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) commissioners may call
special meetings of the city commission whenever in their opinion the public
business may require it. (2010 Code § 1-2)
   3.   Place Of Meeting: Every meeting of the city commission shall be in a
public building unless, in case of an emergency, the chairperson of the city
commission designates another place in the city for the holding of a special
meeting; provided, that any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place
within the city designated by the city commission. (2010 Code § 1-3)
C.   Presiding Officer: The mayor, or in his absence the vice mayor, shall take
the chair precisely at the hour appointed for the meeting and shall immediately
call the commission to order. In the absence of the mayor and vice mayor, the
city manager shall call the commission to order, whereupon an acting
chairperson shall be elected by the members of the commission present. Upon the
arrival of the mayor or vice mayor, the acting chairperson shall immediately
relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately pending
before the commission. (2010 Code § 1-14)
D.   Quorum; Open Meetings:
   1.   Before processing the business of the commission, the city clerk or
deputy shall take the roll of the members and the names of those present shall
be entered in the minutes. A majority of the commission shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum.
   2.   Meetings of the city commission shall be opened to the public and the
journal of its proceedings shall be opened to public inspection, except the
city commission may hold those executive sessions as permitted by the statutes
of the state. (2010 Code § 1-15)
E.   Minutes: Unless a reading of the minutes of a commission meeting is
requested by a member of the commission, such minutes may be approved without
reading. (2010 Code § 1-16)
F.   Order Of Business: All meetings of the city commission shall be open to
the public pursuant to the statutes of the state. Promptly at the hour set by
law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the commission, the city
clerk, the city attorney, and the city manager shall take their regular
stations in the commission chambers and the business of the commission shall be
taken up for consideration and disposition under the following topics:
   1.   Roll call;
   2.   Consideration of consent agenda;
   3.   Consideration of items removed from consent agenda;
   4.   Opening of bids;
   5.   Public hearings;
   6.   Public appearances, petitions, remonstrances, communications and
personal appearances;
   7.   Executive session;
   8.   Awarding of contracts;
   9.   Resolutions;
   10.   Ordinances;
   11.   Miscellaneous;
   12.   Appointments;
   13.   Adjournment. (Ord. 366, 3-9-2010)
G.   Voting: All votes shall be by roll call vote and listed by commission in
accordance with the statutes of the state. All commission members shall vote
"yes" or "no", or "aye" or "nay" in accordance with the provisions of state
law, and the records of such roll call vote shall be incorporated in the
minutes of the meeting. An abstention shall be counted as a "no" vote. (2010
Code § 1-18)
H.   Rules Of Debate:
   1.   Presiding Officer Not Deprived Of Rights As Commission Member: The
mayor or vice mayor, or such other member of the commission as may be
presiding, may move, second and debate from the chair, subject only to such
limitations of debate as are imposed on all members, and shall not be deprived
of any of the rights and privileges of a commission member by reason of his
acting as the presiding officer.
   2.   Privilege Of Closing Debate: The commission member moving the adoption
of an ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate on
said ordinance or resolution. (2010 Code § 1-19)
I.   Addressing The Commission:
   1.   Permission Required: Any person desiring to address the commission
shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer to do so.
   2.   Communication: Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their authorized
legal representative, may address the commission by oral communication on any
matter or any matters over which the commission has control; provided, however,
that it is in regard to matters then under discussion. Preference shall be
given to those persons who may have notified the city clerk in advance of their
desire to speak in order that the same may appear on the agenda of the
commission. All remarks shall be addressed to the commission. All remarks shall
be addressed to the commission as a body and not any member thereof. No person,
other than the commission and the person having the floor, shall be permitted
to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the
commission without permission of the presiding officer.
   3.   Presentation Of Commission After Motion: After a motion is made and
seconded and pending before the commission, no person shall address the
commission without first securing the permission of the presiding officer to do
so. (2010 Code § 1-20)
J.   Public Hearings:
   1.   The city commission shall hold a public hearing open to all interested
citizens when required to do so by the provisions of this code, Oklahoma
Statutes or the United States Of America. The city commission may order the
holding of such other public hearings as they find to be necessary and in the
best interests of the citizens of the city. When the commission shall direct
that a special hearing be held at their order, they shall give at least five
(5) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing in an official paper of
circulation within the municipality, and the hearing shall have the same
affects, requirements and be the same as those hearings held under the
provisions of the Oklahoma Statutes and this code. All hearings shall be
proceedings of relative formality, open to the public, with definite issues of
facts or of the law to be heard, and shall be much the same as trials in that a
public hearing may terminate with issuance of final order. All public hearings
shall be held consistent with the fundamental principles of justice embraced
with the concept of due process of law and all authority exercised at said
hearings shall be fairly exercised.
   2.   Whenever a public hearing is held, the presiding officer shall first
recess the commission meeting and declare "this is a public hearing", naming
the subject of such public hearing. Upon the presiding officer declaring the
public hearing open, any interested person, or their representative, may
address the commission in regard to the matter then under consideration. During
the public hearing, there shall be no debate by the commission, although
questions may be asked or the persons making such presentation by individual
commission members. During the public hearing, those persons advocating or
wishing to speak in favor of the matter before the commission shall be heard
first, then those persons desiring to speak against the matter shall be allowed
to speak; whereupon those persons advocating or speaking in favor of said
matter shall have the right of rebuttal. Those persons speaking against the
matter shall not at that time be extended the right for rebuttal comments.
After having conducted said public hearing and having reached the conclusion of
the presentation of all views by the public, the presiding officer shall then
declare the public hearing closed and shall recall the meeting to order. (2010
Code § 1-21)
K.   Decorum:
   1.   By The Public: Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous
remarks, or who shall become boisterous while addressing the commission, shall
be forthwith by the presiding officer barred and removed from further audience
before the commission unless permission to continue be granted by a majority
vote of the commission.
   2.   Enforcement Of Decorum: The chief of police or such member or members
of the police department as he may so designate, shall be sergeant at arms of
the commission meetings. He, or they, shall carry out all orders and
instructions given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining
order and decorum at the commission meeting. Upon instructions of the presiding
officer, unless overruled by a majority vote of the city commission, it shall
be the duty of the sergeant at arms, or any of them present, to place any
person who violates the order and decorum of the meeting under arrest and cause
him to be prosecuted under the provisions of this code. The complaint so
prosecuted shall be signed by the presiding officer of the city commission.
(2010 Code § 1-22)
L.   Basis For Determining And Voting Result: All matters coming before the
city commission, whether they be ordinances, contracts, resolutions or matters
of parliamentary procedure, and on which a vote is taken, shall require a
majority vote of those members of the duly elected, appointed and acting
commission that might be present before said matter shall pass, provided said
members constitute a quorum. Provided further that nothing contained herein
shall be interpreted in violation of section 2-14 or 7-5 of the city charter.
(2010 Code § 1-23)
M.   Motion To Table: A motion to table any matter then under consideration,
except during a public hearing, shall always be in order and decided without
debate. (2010 Code § 1-25)
N.   Adjournment: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided
without debate. (2010 Code § 1-26)
O.   Time Records; Parliamentarian: The city clerk shall maintain time records
and the city attorney shall serve as parliamentarian under the terms of this
chapter. (2010 Code § 1-27)
P.   Procedure: All questions of law, questions of procedure or questions of
fact which may present themselves to the city commission and which are not
covered by the provisions of any portion of this chapter, shall hereby be
governed by the parliamentary procedure manual, "Robert's Rules Of Order".
(2010 Code § 1-28)
1-6-4: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS:
A.   Preparation Of Ordinances: All ordinances and resolutions shall be
prepared by and approved as to form by the city attorney.
B.   Introduction: Any ordinance or resolution may be introduced and sponsored
by a member of the commission, the city manager or city attorney, and any
member of the commission may assume the sponsorship thereof by moving the same
on first reading. Every ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall be
made available for examination by any and all parties in the office of the city
clerk.
C.   Passage And Approval Of Ordinances:
   1.   No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be
clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section thereof, shall be
amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the
ordinance or section amended or repealed.
   2.   Any commission member may request a public hearing on any ordinance
presented to the commission prior to its consideration for final adoption.
   3.   An emergency ordinance may be adopted by an affirmative vote of at
least four (4) commissioners on the grounds that it is immediately necessary
for the preservation of the peace, health and safety.
D.   Introduction And Passage Of Resolutions: A resolution may be adopted at
the meeting at which it is introduced. It may be introduced orally and
following adoption may be reduced to writing in a form approved by the city
attorney.
E.   Approval Of Contracts Or Agreements: Contracts or agreements which seek to
bind the city may be approved by resolution or by simple motion, which shall be
adopted by a majority vote of the commission.
F.   Execution Of Ordinances, Resolutions And Agreements: Upon final passage
and adoption of any ordinances, resolutions, contracts and agreements adopted
by the commission in the presence of the mayor, the city clerk or deputy city
clerk, shall attest to his signature. In the event of the absence of the mayor,
the vice mayor shall sign such ordinances, resolutions, contracts or agreements
as then adopted. (2010 Code § 1-24)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Manager
1-7-2: City Clerk
1-7-3: City Finance Director
1-7-4: City Attorney
1-7-5: Official Bonds
1-7-6: Oaths
1-7-7: Compensation
1-7-8: Report Of Departmental Activities To City Manager
1-7-9: Limitation On Direct Employee Or Volunteer Communication With
Commissioners (Rep. by Ord. 407, 8-13-2013)
1-7-10: Officers To Continue Until Successors Elected, Appointed Or Qualified
1-7-11: Authority To Lay Off, Suspend, Demote Or Remove
1-7-1: CITY MANAGER:
A.   The city manager is the chief administrative officer of the city. The city
manager has all the powers and duties prescribed for that position by section
3-3 of the city charter. The city manager shall have supervision and control,
directly or indirectly, of all administrative departments, agencies, officers
and employees appointed by the city manager or by the city manager's
subordinates.
B.   The city manager may hold more than one such office, through appointment
by the city manager, by the commission, or by other city authority having power
to fill the particular office, subject to any regulations which commission may
make by ordinance; but such person may not receive compensation for service in
such other offices. Accordingly, an acting city manager or permanent city
manager may also serve as police chief provided that situations presenting a
conflict of interest are subject to the approval of the city commission,
including the police chief's annual evaluation. (Ord. 415, 3-14-2014)
1-7-2: CITY CLERK:
A.   General: The city clerk shall be the clerical officer of the commission,
with the powers and duties prescribed by section 2-8 of the city charter and
other sections of the city charter by ordinance, and by applicable state law.
(2010 Code § 1-6)
B.   Duties:
   1.   The city clerk shall have custody of the records, books and papers of
the city commission, shall keep minutes of its proceedings as provided by 25
Oklahoma Statutes section 312, and other applicable state statutes, and shall
enroll in a book or books kept of the purpose all ordinances and resolutions
passed by the city commission.
   2.   The city clerk shall collect or receive such revenue and other money
for the city as the law or ordinances may provide. He shall keep proper records
and accounts of all the financial transactions of his office.
   3.   The city clerk shall countersign all warrants properly and legally
drawn by the mayor.
   4.   The city clerk shall perform all other duties prescribed by law or
ordinances. (2010 Code § 1-7)
1-7-3: CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR:
A.   General: The city manager shall appoint the city finance director for an
indefinite term. He shall have the powers and duties prescribed by section 3-
5 of the city charter and by applicable state law and ordinance. (2010 Code §
1-8)
B.   Powers And Duties: The city finance director shall collect or receive
revenue and other money for the city; shall be responsible for its custody,
safekeeping, deposit, investment and disbursement, in accordance with the city
charter and ordinances of the city; and shall maintain a general accounting
system for the city government. (2010 Code § 1-9)
1-7-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
A.   General: The city commission shall appoint the city attorney for an
indefinite term. He shall have the powers and duties prescribed by section 3-
6 of the city charter and by applicable state law and ordinance. (2010 Code §
1-10)
B.   Powers And Duties: The city attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the
legal advisor to the commission, all officers, departments and agencies of the
city government, in matters relating to their official powers and duties. He
shall represent the city in proceedings in the courts and he shall perform all
services incidental to his position which may be required. (2010 Code § 1-11)
1-7-5: OFFICIAL BONDS:
A.   Certain Personnel To Be Bonded; Amounts: Before entering upon their
official duties, the following personnel of the city, pursuant to section 8-
5 of the city charter, shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of
their official duties, payable to the city, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in the amounts respectively indicated after their
titles:
 
City manager                 $50,000.00
City finance director        50,000.00
City clerk                   50,000.00
Municipal court clerk        25,000.00
Deputy city clerk            10,000.00
Deputy municipal court clerk 10,000.00
 
(2010 Code § 1-59; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Additional Bonds: The city commission, by motion or resolution, may
require other officers and employees in such positions as it may designate to
be bonded; and also, by motion or resolution, may increase the amount of the
bonds for the personnel listed hereinabove.
C.   Premiums Paid By City: The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(2010 Code § 1-59)
1-7-6: OATHS:
All officers, elective and appointive, including salaried employees of the
city, shall, within five (5) days of their election or appointment and before
entering upon the duties of the respective offices, take and subscribe to the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by section 8-11 of the city charter
before they enter upon their duties:
I,                               , do solemnly swear, (or affirm), that I will
support, obey and defend the Constitution of the United States, and the
Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, and will faithfully discharge the duties
of the office of                        ; that I will not knowingly receive
directly or indirectly any money or other valuable thing to procure my
nomination, election or appointment; except necessary and proper expense
expressly authorized by law; that I have not knowingly violated any election
law of the state or procured it to be done by others in my behalf; I further
swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully discharge my duties to the best of my
ability.
(2010 Code § 1-60)
1-7-7: COMPENSATION:
A.   Certain Personnel Determined By Ordinance:
   1.   Since the law requires that the compensation of certain officers shall
be set by ordinance pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-113, the
compensation of each of the following shall be as respectively indicated below:
 
Officer           Per Month
Mayor             $100.00
City commissioner 50.00
City clerk        200.00
 
   2.   The above compensation shall be for the performance of those duties
required of each officer by this code and the statutes of the state.
   3.   The city commission shall have the power to determine and establish the
compensation of other officers and employees of the city not previously
reserved to the city manager under section
1-7-1 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 1-62)
B.   Set By Motion Or Resolution; Number And Classes Of Personnel:
   1.   The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting those
whose compensation under the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be
determined by motion or resolution adopted by the city commission, and may be
changed at any time in the same manner.
   2.   Except as state statutes and the city charter provide otherwise, the
city commission may determine or regulate the number and classes of officers
and employees. (2010 Code § 1-63)
C.   Compensation Of Certain Officers Not Changed After Election Or
Appointment: In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any city officer
elected or appointed for a definite term be changed after his election or
appointment, or during his term of office, unless by operation of an ordinance
passed prior to such election or appointment; or provided, that such change
shall not violate the provisions of article 33 section 10 of the Oklahoma state
constitution. It is further provided that this shall not apply to officers
chosen for indefinite terms or to employees. (2010 Code § 1-64)
1-7-8: REPORT OF DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES TO CITY MANAGER:
All department heads of the city shall submit to the city manager a written
report of the activities of their department each month. The report, which
shall be due on or before the third day prior to the regular monthly commission
meeting held each month, shall report fully the activities of their departments
for the previous month. (2010 Code § 1-58)
1-7-9: LIMITATION ON DIRECT EMPLOYEE OR VOLUNTEER COMMUNICATION WITH
COMMISSIONERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 407, 8-13-2013)
1-7-10: OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ELECTED, APPOINTED OR QUALIFIED:
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall continue
to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed and qualifies,
unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation, disqualification,
removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal manner. (2010 Code § 1-
61)
1-7-11: AUTHORITY TO LAY OFF, SUSPEND, DEMOTE OR REMOVE:
The city commission, or any other authority, may lay off, suspend, demote or
remove any officer or employee whom it appoints or elects, or whose successor
it may appoint or elect. (2010 Code § 1-65)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Jurisdiction
1-8-4: Judge, Alternate/Acting Judge
1-8-5: Chief Of Police
1-8-6: Court Clerk
1-8-7: City Attorney
1-8-8: Judge May Prescribe Rules
1-8-9: Procedure For Trials
1-8-10: Enforcement; Contempt
1-8-11: Style Of Prosecution
1-8-12: Traffic Violations Bureau
1-8-13: Summons
1-8-14: Warrant Of Arrest
1-8-15: Bail
1-8-16: Pleading
1-8-17: Postponement
1-8-18: Defendant To Be Present; Bond Forfeiture Procedure
1-8-19: Judgment
1-8-20: Witnesses
1-8-21: Judgment To Be Rendered
1-8-22: Acquittal
1-8-23: Suspension Or Deferment Of Sentence
1-8-24: Jury Trials
1-8-25: Fees And Court Costs
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-102. To the
extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
any other ordinance of this city, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(2010 Code § 14-1)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the following meanings:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of this
municipality.
   CITY ATTORNEY: The duly appointed and acting city attorney for the city of
Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of this municipality, including any deputy clerk
or member of the office of the city clerk all performing duties of the city
clerk's office.
   COURT: The municipal court of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   GOVERNING BODY: The city commission of this municipality.
   JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge thereof
as provided for by the statutes of this state and this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (2010 Code §
14-3)
1-8-3: JURISDICTION:
A.   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law.
B.   The court shall have and possess the original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all offenses under the traffic regulations of the city, without
previous proceedings, in juvenile court, and cases where the person informed
against has attained the age of sixteen (16) years of age, or where the person
informed against is between the age of sixteen (16) years of age and fourteen
(14) years of age, and is the holder of an operator's or restricted operator's
license issued by the department of public safety for the state authorizing
such person to operate a motor vehicle. (2010 Code § 14-4)
C.   The court may enter into an agreement with the Payne County district court
to assume jurisdiction of cases involving children under eighteen (18) years of
age charged with violating municipal ordinances relating to vandalism,
shoplifting, trespassing, assault, battery, assault and battery, truancy,
curfews, possession of nonintoxicating beverages as defined in 37 Oklahoma
Statutes, possession of alcoholic beverages as defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes,
tobacco and public intoxication. A child under eighteen (18) years of age may
be charged and prosecuted for violating such a municipal ordinance; provided,
that the maximum fine which may be imposed shall not exceed the maximum fine
authorized by Oklahoma Statutes. When assessing punishment, the court also may
require appropriate community service work, not to exceed ninety (90) hours, in
lieu of a fine if the product of multiplying the numbers of hours of community
service work by the prevailing minimum wage does not result in a number which
exceeds the maximum fine authorized by statutes, or restitution, or both
community service work and restitution. In addition, the court may require the
child to receive counseling or other community based services, as necessary. If
a child is prosecuted for an offense in a municipal court, the child shall not
be prosecuted for the offense in the district court. All city arrest and
prosecution records for cases involving children under eighteen (18) years of
age charged with violating municipal ordinances relating to vandalism,
shoplifting, trespassing, assault, battery, assault and battery, truancy,
curfew, possession of nonintoxicating beverages as defined in 37 Oklahoma
Statutes, possession of alcoholic beverages as defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes,
tobacco or public intoxication shall be kept confidential and shall not be open
to public inspection, except by order of the district court. Any funds
generated from fines paid by a juvenile for prosecution of any municipal
ordinance relating to vandalism, shoplifting, trespassing, assault, battery,
assault and battery, truancy, curfew, possession of nonintoxicating beverages
as defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes, possession of alcoholic beverages as
defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes, tobacco or public intoxication shall be
earmarked and used by the city to fund local programs which address problems of
juvenile crime. (Ord. 363, 1-12-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8-4: JUDGE, ALTERNATE/ACTING JUDGE:
A.   Judge: There shall be one judge of the court, appointed by the city
commission. He need not reside within the municipality. He may serve as judge
of other municipal courts, if such service may be accomplished consistently
with his duties as judge of this court, with the consent of the governing body.
(2010 Code § 14-5)
B.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be one year, expiring
on June 1 each year. The judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall
serve until his successor is appointed and qualified; provided, that the judge
of the municipal court existing in this municipality at the effective date
hereof shall act as judge of the court herein provided for until a judge is
appointed and qualified under the terms of this chapter. (2010 Code § 14-6)
C.   Alternate/Acting Judge:
   1.   In the event of the disqualification of the judge in a particular case,
or his absence or inability to act, the city commission may appoint some
person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge,
as acting judge of the court in the place of the judge during his absence or
inability to act, or in a case wherein the judge is disqualified.
   2.   There may be appointed, for each judge of the court, an alternate
judge, possessed of the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He
shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is absent from
court, unable to act as judge, or disqualified from acting as judge in the
case. (2010 Code § 14-7)
D.   Salary Of Judge:
   1.   The judge shall receive a salary to be fixed from time to time by the
governing body, which shall be paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
officials of this municipality.
   2.   An alternate/acting judge shall be paid the sum equal to the salary of
judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate/acting judge who sits for an entire
month shall receive an amount equal to the monthly salary of the judge in whose
stead he sits. (Ord. 389, 10-11-2011)
E.   Dismissal Of Judge: Judges and alternate judges shall be subject to
dismissal by the city commission, upon there being shown proper cause for said
dismissal. (2010 Code § 14-10)
F.   Vacancy:
   1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      a.   Dies;
      b.   Resigns;
      c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      d.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings are no longer subject to
judicial review.
   2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the city
commission shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term. (2010 Code
§ 14-11)
G.   No Change Of Venue: In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue
shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his
disqualification or he may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for a court of record. If a judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an acting judge, appointed as
provided in this chapter. (2010 Code § 14-12)
1-8-5: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the chief of police of this municipality, who shall be ex-official marshal and
principal officer of the court. (2010 Code § 14-13)
1-8-6: COURT CLERK:
A.   Duties Generally: The city clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be
the clerk of the court. He shall assist the judge in recording proceedings of
the court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He shall enter
all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the court. He shall
perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings in the dockets
of the court. He shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct. He shall receive and
receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of money of this municipality,
at least weekly, all money so received by him, except such special deposits or
fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him for special purposes. All
money shall be paid to the general fund as the governing body may direct, and
it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance
with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed. (2010
Code § 14-17)
B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, in a sum not less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00). When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the
governing body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the clerk of
this municipality and retained in the municipal archives. (2010 Code § 14-18)
1-8-7: CITY ATTORNEY:
The attorney for this municipality, or his duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the city. He shall prosecute all alleged violations
of the city code. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute and
resist appeals, proceedings in error and review from this court to any other
courts of the state, and to represent this municipality in all proceedings
arising out of the matters in this court. (2010 Code § 14-19)
1-8-8: JUDGE MAY PRESCRIBE RULES:
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the statutes of the state, and
with the ordinances of this municipality, for the proper conduct of the
business of the court. (2010 Code § 14-14)
1-8-9: PROCEDURE FOR TRIALS:
In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the statutes
relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the supreme court
of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the district
courts shall apply to the extent that they can be made effective. (2010 Code §
14-15)
1-8-10: ENFORCEMENT; CONTEMPT:
Obedience to the order, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the court
may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by him, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this state.
(2010 Code § 14-16)
1-8-11: STYLE OF PROSECUTION:
All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled "The city of Perkins versus (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint
and setting forth precisely the offense charged. A complaint may be amended in
matter of substance or form at any time before the defendant pleads, without
leave, and may be amended after plea on order of the court where the same can
be done without material prejudice to the rights of the defendant; no amendment
shall cause any delay of the trial, unless good cause is shown by affidavit.
(2010 Code § 14-20)
1-8-12: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
A traffic violations bureau is hereby established as a division of the office
of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the clerk, or by subordinates
designated by him for that purpose. Persons who are cited for violation of one
of the traffic regulatory ordinances of this municipality, with such exceptions
as the judge may by rule prescribe, may elect to pay a fine in the traffic
violations bureau according to schedule of fines to be prescribed by the judge.
Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of
the cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine
under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the
provisions of this chapter. (2010 Code § 14-21)
1-8-13: SUMMONS:
A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance, the
judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
court on a day certain, containing a provision for the official return of the
summons, and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear to answer the summons within the prescribed
period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as provided by this chapter.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been lawfully subpoenaed
within the municipal court to fail to appear in response to the command as
contained in said subpoena. It is further provided that the intent of this
section is to make it a separate offense for any person either wilfully or
otherwise to fail to appear before the municipal court at the appointed time
and place, when said person has been commanded to do so by a lawfully issued
and served subpoena. (2010 Code § 14-22)
1-8-14: WARRANT OF ARREST:
A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of this
municipality, or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
The City of Perkins, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of the Municipal Court of
Perkins, Oklahoma:
A complaint upon oath having this day been made by               that the
offense of                          has been committed and accusing
                   thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to arrest the
above named                     and bring before me, at
                           .
WITNESS MY HAND this         day               of 20    .
                                        
   JUDGE OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT
   OF PERKINS, OKLAHOMA
B.   It shall be the duty of the aforesaid chief of police, personally, or
through a duly constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or
through any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute said
warrant as promptly as possible. (2010 Code § 14-23; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8-15: BAIL:
A.   There is hereby adopted by reference that certain act referred to as the
state and municipal traffic bail bond procedure act and accompanying provisions
1 , for the establishment of the conditions of bail. The judge shall prescribe
appropriate conditions and rules of the court for the receipt of bail. Each and
all of the provisions of the act, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, as set out in the state and municipal
traffic bail bond procedure act, and accompanying provisions as applicable to
the city, a municipal corporation, are hereby adopted, referred to,
incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out at length herein. Any
subsequent amendments thereto shall be controlling law and legislation within
the corporate limits of the city.
B.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, any person, whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is
arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a violation of a municipal
traffic ordinance, shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal
recognizance if:
   1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a motor
vehicle by Oklahoma, another state jurisdiction within the United States, or
any party jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
   2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the arrested
person;
   3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided for
on the citation; and
   4.   The violation does not constitute:
      a.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer; or
      b.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation; or
      c.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant; or
      d.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in subsections
B4a through B4c of this section; or
      e.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
      f.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous materials.
C.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal recognizance as
provided for in subsection A of this section, then the arresting officer shall:
   1.   Designate the traffic charge;
   2.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on the
citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
   3.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
   4.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
   5.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
D.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driver's license in Oklahoma, or in the
nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
E.   The court, or the court clerk as directed by the court, may continue or
reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested person
or his attorney. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested
person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise to appear
until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same consequences as if
the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the citation by the
arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued
or rescheduled more than one time; provided, however, the court shall require
an arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of
the defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as
provided for in subsection F of this section.
F.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before he is
required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of the
citation furnished to him, or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date
of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring
full payment of the fine and costs to the municipal court clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier's, traveler's, certified or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the court in an amount prescribed as bail for the offense.
The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has
entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection,
such plea shall be accepted by the court and the amount of the fine and costs
shall be as prescribed by the municipal judge.
G.   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer for the
violation of any traffic ordinance for which subsection A of this section does
not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a nontraffic ordinance, the
officer shall immediately release said person if the person acknowledges
receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the arresting officer
need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the officer that the
person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if released,
that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the person is
arrested for an offense against a person or property. If said person fails to
appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest
and his appearance shall be compelled.
H.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in this subsection, he shall be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance.
I.   If a nonresident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
a violation of any ordinance for which subsection A of this section does not
apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or
after arraignment. (2010 Code § 14-24)
 
Notes
1 1. 22 OS §§ 1115, 1115.2, 1115.4, 1115.5; 11 OS §§ 27-117, 27-117.1
1-8-16: PLEADING:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal right, including the right of trial by jury,
if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether he
pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence, or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(2010 Code § 14-25)
1-8-17: POSTPONEMENT:
Before the trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a
reasonable postponement thereof. (2010 Code § 14-26)
1-8-18: DEFENDANT TO BE PRESENT; BOND FORFEITURE PROCEDURE:
A.   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
B.   If without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according to the
terms or conditions of a bond, either for hearing, arraignment, trial or
judgment, or upon any other occasion when his or her presence in court or
before the judge may be lawfully required:
   1.   The court shall follow the procedures set forth in 59 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1332, whereby the municipal court clerk shall issue the required
notices; or
   2.   a. The municipal judge shall issue an order declaring the bond to be
forfeited on the day the defendant failed to appear and stating the reasons
therefor; and
      b.   Within five (5) days of the order of forfeiture, the municipal court
clerk shall file a certified copy of the order with the district court of Payne
County. The district court clerk shall treat the certified order of forfeiture
as a foreign judgment and proceed in accordance with the provisions of 59
Oklahoma Statutes section 1332. A surety shall have all remedies available
under the provisions of 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1301 through 1340. (2010
Code § 14-27)
1-8-19: JUDGMENT:
If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the court must
render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed by the
applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly. (2010 Code § 14-28)
1-8-20: WITNESSES:
A.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the municipal court, other than police
officers or other officials who shall be employed by said city, shall be
entitled to twelve dollars ($12.00) per each full day of attendance, plus
seventeen cents ($0.17) for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance, if their residence is more
than ten (10) miles distant from the place of trial. No witness, however, shall
receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or
for the same travel. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit
with the municipal court clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for
one day of attendance for each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall
not be required from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting
forth:
   1.   The names of no more witnesses than the municipal judge shall determine
to be just, necessary and reasonable for the proper defense of said indigent's
case;
   2.   The defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to provide the fees
and mileage allowed by law;
   3.   The testimony of said witness is material; and
   4.   Their attendance at the trial is necessary to his proper defense.
B.   In any case where an indigent defendant has properly filled out and filed
with the city an affidavit setting forth the above mentioned information, then
the fees for such witnesses shall be paid by the city. (2010 Code § 14-29)
1-8-21: JUDGMENT TO BE RENDERED:
At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the judge, who
shall cause it to be entered in his docket. (2010 Code § 14-30)
1-8-22: ACQUITTAL:
If judgment is of acquittal and the defendant is not to be detained for any
other legal cause, he must be discharged at once. (2010 Code § 14-31)
1-8-23: SUSPENSION OR DEFERMENT OF SENTENCE:
A.   Whenever any person shall be convicted in the municipal court of violating
a municipal ordinance, the judge trying said cause, after sentence, may suspend
said judgment or costs, or both, and allow said person so convicted to be
released upon his own recognizance. Provided, if it shall be made to appear to
the judge that such person having complied with any conditions which might be
prescribed by the municipal judge then the municipal judge may order the record
of that proceeding expunged from the records of the municipal court. Provided
further, that this can be done in accordance with the provisions of, and
subject to, the conditions and procedures imposed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 27-123.
B.   If the defendant pleads or is found guilty of an offense against the city,
the municipal judge shall have the authority to either suspend the execution of
sentence in whole or in part, with or without probation, or to declare, impose
and assess the fine as prescribed by law for the offense, also with or without
probation. The judge shall also order that the defendant be committed to the
county jail until the judgment is complied with, unless the defendant pays the
fine and costs or stays the execution of the judgment by giving a good and
sufficient bond, to be approved by the judge, conditioned that the defendant
will pay the fine and costs within thirty (30) days from the date of the
judgment. If the defendant, on conviction or plea of guilty, fails to pay or to
stay the execution of judgment as provided herein, or if after staying the
execution of judgment he fails to pay the fine and costs, he shall be committed
until he shall have served out the amount thereof. Upon payment of the fine and
costs, the judge shall discharge such defendant unless he is held for another
legal cause. "Probation", as used in this section, is the procedure under which
a defendant, found guilty of a crime, is released by the court subject to
conditions imposed by the court and subject to the supervision of the proper
guidance personnel as defined by the court. Such supervision shall be initiated
on an order of probation from the court, and such supervision shall not exceed
six (6) months.
C.   Upon a verdict or plea guilty, but before a judgment of guilty, the court
may, without entering a judgment of guilty, defer such sentencing and place the
defendant on probation under the supervision of the proper probation personnel
as shall be decided by the municipal court and upon the conditions of probation
which are prescribed by the court. Upon the completion of the probation term,
which probation term, under this procedure shall not exceed six (6) months, the
defendant shall be discharged from the probation program and any charges
brought against the defendant may be dismissed with prejudice to any further
action if the court so chooses. Upon violation of the conditions of probation,
the court may enter judgment of guilt.
D.   The court may, upon deferment of any sentence, impose a deferral fee in
lieu of a fine for traffic related offenses relating to speeding or parking not
to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), a deferral fee in lieu of a fine for
alcohol related or drug related offenses not to exceed eight hundred dollars
($800.00), and for all other offenses, a deferral fee in lieu of a fine not to
exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
E.   The court, upon granting probation, may fix a fee not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for traffic related offenses; eight hundred dollars
($800.00) for alcohol related or drug related offenses; and seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for all other offenses, to be paid by the probationer during
the probation period. The court may make payment of the fee a condition of
granting or continuing the probation, and such condition may be imposed whether
the probation is incident to the suspending of imposition or the deferring of a
sentence.
F.   The fees provided for in subsections D and E of this section shall be paid
to the court clerk and credited to the general fund of the city. Any and all
monies credited to such fund are hereby appropriated for paying the expense of
supervising probationers. (Ord. 368, 4-13-2010)
1-8-24: JURY TRIALS:
A.   Applicability: In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable
by fines of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment, or by
both such fine and imprisonment, trials shall be by jury unless waived by the
defendant and the city. If trial by jury is waived, a trial shall be to the
court. At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he waives trial by
jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and
entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in the case. A waiver
of jury trial, made at arraignment, may be withdrawn by the defendant at any
time prior to the day for which trial by the court is set; such waiver may also
be made at any time prior to the commencement of proceedings to impanel the
jury for the trial; but, if such waiver occurs, after the case has been set for
jury trial, it may not thereafter be withdrawn. (Ord. 368, 4-13-2010)
B.   Selection Of Juror: Jurors in the court shall be selected under the same
terms and conditions as are provided for by law for the district courts. Upon
written request of the judge of the municipal court for a stated number of
jurors to the chief judge of the appropriate district court, it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the district court to draw from the jury wheel a requested
number of jurors in the same manner as is provided by law for the district
court until the number requested, who from their addresses appear to reside
within the corporate limits of the city, is drawn, and to prepare a list of
names drawn and certify such list to the judge of the municipal court. On
completion of the draw, the clerk shall immediately return to the jury wheel
all names drawn which are not placed on the certified list. The judge of the
municipal court shall make written request to the chief judge of the district
court for a stated number of additional jurors if, after allowance of claimed
statutory exemptions, the listed number is found to be insufficient. (2010 Code
§ 14-35)
C.   Composition Of Jury: A jury in the court shall consist of six (6) jurors,
good and lawful men or women, citizens of the county, possessing the
qualifications of jurors in district court. (2010 Code § 14-36)
D.   Summons For Jurors:
   1.   Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the court shall cause a
summons substantially in the form heretofore prescribed by the city commission
to be issued and served upon each person on the jury list.
   2.   Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe by rule or direct by
order, either in person upon the juror by the marshal of the court, or by any
member of the police force of this municipality, or by the clerk of the court,
through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in the
jury list, with request for a personally signed return receipt. Any proceeding
wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due mailing of
the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the presentation of an
official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the addressee shall be
prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by the addressee and
therefore that he was properly served therewith. (2010 Code § 14-37)
E.   Jury To Sit Together: After jurors are sworn, they shall sit together and
hear the proof and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in
public and in the presence of the defendant. (2010 Code § 14-38)
F.   Judge To Determine Questions Of Law: In all actions tried before a jury,
the judge shall determine all questions of law, including questions as to the
introduction of evidence, arising during the trial. He also shall instruct the
jury as to the law. (2010 Code § 14-39)
G.   Vote Required For Verdict: A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the
vote of five (5) jurors. (2010 Code § 14-40)
H.   Verdict Of Jury Generally:
   1.   The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the jury
has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the court.
The judge must enter the verdict in the docket, or cause it to be so entered.
   2.   The jury must not be discharged after the cause is submitted to it
until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges it
sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and so on, until a
verdict is rendered. (2010 Code § 14-41)
I.   Misconduct Of Jurors; Influencing Jurors:
   1.   No juror or person drawn or summoned as a juror in the court shall
either make any promise or agreement to give a verdict for or against the city,
permit any communication to be made to him, or to receive any book, paper,
instruments or information relative to any cause pending before him, except in
the regular course of proceedings and the trial of the case.
   2.   No juror summoned by the court shall ask, receive or agree to receive,
any bribe upon any understanding concerning his vote or decision upon any case
in which he may be selected as a juror in the court.
   3.   No person shall attempt to influence a juror summoned to appear in the
court, or any person summoned as a juror, in respect to his verdict, either by
means of communication, oral or written, had by him, except in the regular
course of proceedings; by means of any books, paper or instruments, exhibited
otherwise than in the regular course of proceedings, by any means of threat or
intimidation; by means of any assurance, promise of any pecuniary or other
advantage; by publishing any statement, argument or observation relating to the
case; or by talking with such juror concerning the case in any way. (2010 Code
§ 14-42)
J.   Responsibility Of Officer In Charge Of Jury: No officer to whose charge
any jury is committed by the municipal court shall neglect or wilfully permit
such juror, or any of them, either to receive any communication from any
person; to make any communication to any person; to obtain or to receive any
book, paper or refreshment; or to leave the jury room without leave of the
court being first obtained. (2010 Code § 14-43)
K.   Compensation Of Jurors: Jurors shall receive for their services the sum of
twelve dollars fifty cents ($12.50) per day, plus mileage at the rate of ten
cents ($0.10) per mile for each mile necessarily traveled by the most direct
route in going to and from the court from their respective places of residence.
The claims for such compensation shall show the location of the juror's
residence and the route and miles traveled and must be verified as other claims
against the municipality are verified. Jurors shall be paid out of the general
funds of the city. (2010 Code § 14-44)
1-8-25: FEES AND COURT COSTS:
A.   Fees:
   1.   The municipal court clerk, chief of police or the chief of police
designee is authorized to charge and collect fees for the following, such
amounts to be as established by resolution of the city commission:
      a.   For preparing and furnishing, upon request, a copy of a motor
vehicle accident report on file in the traffic division of the police
department;
      b.   For preparing and furnishing, upon request, a copy of the record of
arrest, commonly known as transcript, for the violation of statutes and/or
ordinances;
      c.   For searching, upon request, the records on file in the police
department;
      d.   For certifying the authenticity of any document copied.
   2.   The fees set out in this subsection shall not be charged or collected
for any such services rendered for or upon request of an agent or officer of
the federal, state, county, city or other governmental bodies.
B.   Court Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the municipal judge may
order the clerk of the court to tax court costs in the maximum amount of thirty
dollars ($30.00) to the defendant, plus any fees and mileage for witnesses, any
costs or fees mandated by the council on law enforcement training, any costs or
fees collected on behalf of the bureau of narcotics drug education revolving
fund, and any costs or fees collected on behalf of the Oklahoma state bureau of
investigation all in addition to any fine that might be imposed. (Ord. 445, 11-
8-2016)
CHAPTER 9
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT
ARTICLE A. FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Policy And Purpose
1-9A-2: Mayor Authorized To Execute Agreements
1-9A-3: Withholdings From Salaries And Wages
1-9A-4: Appropriations For Employer Contributions
1-9A-5: Records And Reports
1-9A-6: Employees And Officers Now Covered By Other Retirement Systems
1-9A-7: Excluded Employees And Officers
1-9A-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of this city to extend at
the earliest date to the employee and officials thereof, not excluded by law or
ordinance, and whether employed in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal social act, and
amendments thereto, including public law 734, 81st congress. In pursuance of
said policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such actions as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2010 Code § 1-70)
1-9A-2: MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE AGREEMENTS:
The mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements
and amendments thereto with the state department of public welfare, as agent or
agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as provided in section
1-9A-1 of this article. (2010 Code § 1-71)
1-9A-3: WITHHOLDINGS FROM SALARIES AND WAGES:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose
provided in section
1-9A-1 of this article are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said
laws or regulations. (2010 Code § 1-72)
1-9A-4: APPROPRIATIONS FOR EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS:
There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer
contributions; which shall be paid over to the state or federal agency
designated by said laws or regulations. (2010 Code § 1-73)
1-9A-5: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
This municipality shall keep such records and make such reports as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2010 Code § 1-74)
1-9A-6: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS NOW COVERED BY OTHER RETIREMENT SYSTEMS:
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement
with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered or
authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any retirement system
for any employee or official of the municipality. (2010 Code § 1-75)
1-9A-7: EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS:
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement
with respect to any position, or any employee or official, compensation for
whom is on a fee basis, or any position, or any official not authorized to be
covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2010 Code § 1-76)
ARTICLE B. FIREMEN'S PENSION
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Board Of Trustees Of Firemen's Relief And Pension Fund Created
1-9B-2: Funds Operated According To Law
1-9B-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF FIREMEN'S RELIEF AND PENSION FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created the board of trustees of the firemen's relief and
pension fund of this municipality, with membership, organization, and powers,
duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-101 et
seq., and as may be provided by any later laws relating to said board. (2010
Code § 1-77)
1-9B-2: FUNDS OPERATED ACCORDING TO LAW:
The fireman's relief and pension fund shall be operated in accordance with
state law relating to the fund and pensions and other benefits shall be paid as
provided by state law. (2010 Code § 1-78)
ARTICLE C. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Created
1-9C-2: Administration
1-9C-3: Fund
1-9C-4: Appropriations
1-9C-5: Execution
1-9C-1: CREATED:
A.   Defined Contribution Plan: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws
of the state, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious
service on the part of the city employees and thereby promoting public
efficiency, there is hereby authorized, created, established, approved and
adopted, effective as of April 1, 2022, the amended and restated plan
designated "Employee Retirement System of City of Perkins, Oklahoma, Defined
Contribution Plan", hereinafter called "Defined Contribution Plan," an executed
counterpart of which is marked Exhibit "A" (Joinder Agreement) and Exhibit "B"
(amended and restated plan) and is to be filed in the office of the city clerk
of said city.
B.   Defined Benefit Plan: Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of
the state, and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious
service on the part of City employees and thereby promote public efficiency,
there is hereby authorized created, established, and approved and adopted,
effective as of January 1, 2025, the amended and restated plan designated
"Employee Retirement System of the City of Perkins, Oklahoma, Defined Benefit
Plan", hereinafter called "Defined Benefit Plan," an executed counterpart of
which is marked Exhibit "A" (Joinder Agreement) and Exhibit "B" (amended and
restated plan) and is to be filed in the office of the city of clerk of said
city.
C.   System: The Defined Contribution Plan and the Defined Benefit Plan are
hereinafter referred to as "the system." (2010 Code § 1-79; amd. Ord. 482, 12-
10-2019; Ord. 488, 3-8-2022; Ord. 511, 12-10-2024)
1-9C-2: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the system, there is hereby established a
retirement committee, which shall be the members of the city commission, as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the retirement committee shall be as set forth in the
system instrument filed in the office of the city clerk. (2010 Code § 1-80;
amd. Ord. 511, 12-10-2024)
1-9C-3: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such funds shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city. Such funds
shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of
other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the state as a part
of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, in accordance with the trust
agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, a public trust. The city
shall hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay
over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the County Excise Board. (2010 Code § 1-81; amd. Ord. 482, 12-10-2019;
Ord. 488, 3-8-2022; Ord. 511, 12-10-2024)
1-9C-4: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation and administration of the system and to appropriate
and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to appropriate
annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee contributions, to
maintain the system and fund in accordance with the provisions of the Defined
Contribution Plan and/or the Defined Benefit Plan. Any appropriation so made to
maintain the system and fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries and for
the payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration, to be
transferred to the trustees of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund for such
purposes, and shall be paid into the fund when available, to be duly
transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund. (2010 Code § 1-82; amd.
Ord. 482, 12-10-2019; Ord. 488, 3-8-2022; Ord. 511, 12-10-2024)
1-9C-5: EXECUTION:
A.   The Mayor and City Clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable and proper to put said system and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the
United States.
B.   This Committee is hereby authorized and directed to proceed immediately on
behalf of the City of Perkins, Oklahoma, to pool and combine the Fund into the
Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
C.   Amendments: The Defined Contribution Plan and the Defined Benefit Plan may
be amended by approval of a resolution by the city commission. (2010 Code § 1-
83; amd. Ord. 482, 12-10-2019; Ord. 488, 3-8-2022; Ord. 511, 12-10-2024)
CHAPTER 10
OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Inspection And Copying Of Open Public Records
1-10-2: Inspection Of Open Public Records
1-10-3: Copies Of Open Public Records
1-10-4: Fees For Copying Records
1-10-1: INSPECTION AND COPYING OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each
official custodian and records custodian:
A.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, records custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records.
B.   Records custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of public
records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected and
copied.
C.   Records custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time.
D.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be performed by
or under the supervision of the records custodian for the city who is
responsible for such records.
E.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public records
shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored, except
that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have been
reproduced for free public distribution.
F.   All records inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the person
requesting the record. In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or
her individual name to the inspection request ledger. The records custodian may
demand reasonable identification of any person requesting a record. Any written
requests shall be made on the form provided by the records custodian and
presented to the records custodian.
G.   Any fees for records inspection or for copies are due at the time the
records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the records
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the records custodian.
H.   The records custodian for the city shall demand full or partial prepayment
of fees whenever his or her estimate for such fees exceed ten dollars ($10.00).
I.   No record search or copying charge shall be assessed against officers or
employees of the city who make requests which are reasonably necessary to the
performance of their official duties.
J.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all regular
working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours.
K.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and maintained,
for purposes of inspection and/or the making of copies, shall not be permitted
by the city.
L.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the records
custodian. (2010 Code § 1-66)
1-10-2: INSPECTION OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by every
official custodian and records custodian within the city:
A.   Records custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records.
B.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the record
sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient information
to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such identification.
C.   The records custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the city attorney that he has made an
inspection request denial. (2010 Code § 1-67)
1-10-3: COPIES OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each
official custodian and records custodian within the city:
A.   Records custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with their
duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons requesting
copies of open public records.
B.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it is the
judgment of the records custodian that any available means of mechanically
reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such record.
C.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the records
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the records
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (2010 Code § 1-68)
1-10-4: FEES FOR COPYING RECORDS:
There is hereby levied and assessed the following fees and costs for the
copying of records by the city: (2010 Code § 1-69)
A.   There shall be charged a document copying fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the city commission. (2010 Code § 1-69; amd. 2012
Code)
However, if the request:
   1.   Is solely for commercial purposes; or
   2.   Would clearly cause excessive disruption of the public body's essential
functions;
then there shall be charged an additional search fee, which fee shall be equal
to the lowest hourly secretarial salary paid by the city of Perkins at the time
of the request, times the number of hours spent by city employees in meeting
the request. For purposes hereof, the smallest sequence of time shall be one-
half (1/2) hour. It is the intent of the city commission the above fees are to
reimburse the city for its costs and expenses in providing the copying of open
public records.
B.   Publication in a newspaper or broadcast by news media for news purposes
shall not constitute a resale or use of data for trade or commercial purpose,
and charges for providing copies of electronic data to the news media for a
news purpose shall not exceed the direct cost of making the copy.
C.   A search fee shall not be added to the copying fee when the release of
said documents is in the public interest, including, but not limited to,
release to the news media, scholars, authors and taxpayers seeking to determine
whether those entrusted with the affairs of the government are honestly,
faithfully and competently performing their duties as public servants. (2010
Code § 1-69)
TITLE 2
REVENUE, FINANCE AND BUSINESS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purchases And Sales
2-1-2: Rental Of Real Property Or Equipment
2-1-3: Agreements For Use Of City Owned Property
2-1-1: PURCHASES AND SALES:
All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the city, and any sales thereof by the city, shall be made by the city
commission, or pursuant to authorizations granted by it, and subject to its
supervision and control and subject to the provisions of this title. (2010 Code
§ 6-11)
2-1-2: RENTAL OF REAL PROPERTY OR EQUIPMENT:
The city is authorized to rent on a monthly basis real property or equipment,
and to pay the rental charges thereon, for usage during any fiscal period or
portion thereof, provided such payment be made out of appropriations made and
approved for such purpose for such fiscal year, it being the intention hereof
that the city comply with the provisions of 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 430.1.
(2010 Code § 6-11; amd. 2012 Code)
2-1-3: AGREEMENTS FOR USE OF CITY OWNED PROPERTY:
The city commission is authorized to enter into agreements for use of city
owned property; provided, that said use will benefit the general health, safety
and welfare; and further provided, that any such agreement shall be in
conformity with Oklahoma Statutes. (2010 Code § 6-11)
CHAPTER 2
PURCHASES OF SUPPLIES, MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: City Manager To Purchase; Prior Approval Required
2-2-2: Contacting Local Vendors, Exception; Lowest Bid
2-2-3: Contract For Public Improvements
2-2-1: CITY MANAGER TO PURCHASE; PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of this section, the city manager, or some
other person or persons duly authorized by him, shall contract for professional
services and purchases or issue purchase authorization for all supplies,
materials and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies of the city
government; provided, that any single purchases for a price exceeding twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall not be made until specifically
approved by the City Commission; provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to emergency services, acquisitions and contracts, including emergency
repairs of equipment and machinery. The City Manager shall specify in writing
the facts and circumstances giving rise to such emergency and shall provide
such written justification to the city prior to issuing or creating an
emergency expenditure, acquisition or contract, or as soon thereafter as
feasible.
   B.   The City Manager, or his duly authorized representative, is hereby
authorized and empowered, for purposes of subsection A of this section, to make
use of and to avail themselves of the provisions of the Oklahoma central
purchasing contracts and the services of its purchasing director; provided,
that any competitive bid requirements found hereunder shall not apply to
contracts or purchases made under and through the provisions of the Oklahoma
central purchasing contracts and the services of its purchasing director. (Ord.
435, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 493, 12-13-2022; Ord. 506, 9-10-2024)
2-2-2: CONTACTING LOCAL VENDORS, EXCEPTION; LOWEST BID:
Except in cases of emergency, the city manager, or his duly authorized
representative, shall contact by mail, phone or in person, local proprietors of
businesses operating in the city and vicinity who may be interested in
furnishing the supplies, materials and equipment needed by the city, and shall
use his best efforts to secure on behalf of the city the lowest and best bid
obtainable. (2010 Code § 6-2)
2-2-3: CONTRACT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
A.   All contracts pertaining to public improvements, maintenance of public
improvements, maintenance of public property, public purchase of supplies and
all other contracts whatsoever character, involving an outlay as much as twenty
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), or such number as may be enacted and
authorized by the state pursuant to the provisions of 61 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1 et seq., shall be made by the city commission and shall be based upon
the specifications provided by said commission. All such contracts shall be let
and awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, by free and open competitive
bidding after solicitation for sealed bids, and no work shall be commenced
until a written contract is executed. Advertising for bids and the subsequent
bidding process shall be conducted in compliance with section 4-2 of the city
charter.
B.   Perkins water and sewer trust contracts for construction, labor,
equipment, material or repairs in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), or such number as may be enacted and authorized by the state,
shall be awarded by the trust to the lowest and best competitive bidder,
pursuant to public invitation to bid, which shall be published in the manner
provided in 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176; provided, however, should the
trustees of the Perkins water and sewer trust find that an immediate emergency
exists, which findings shall be entered in the journal of the trust
proceedings, by reason of which an immediate outlay of trust funds in an amount
exceeding twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) if necessary in order to
avoid loss of life, substantial damage to property, or damage to the public
peace or safety, then such contracts may be made and entered into without
public notice or competitive bids; provided, that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to contracts of industrial and cultural trusts.
(2010 Code § 6-3)
CHAPTER 3
SALE OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Sale Of Surplus Or Obsolete Property
2-3-1: SALE OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY:
A.   Value Determined Pursuant To Charter: Whenever the city manager concludes
to sell surplus, obsolete, abandoned or discarded supplies, materials and
equipment, or products or byproducts of the city, the city commission shall
determine the value thereof, pursuant to section 4-3 of the city charter.
B.   Competitive Bids Required: If the value of any article, or lot of articles
to be sold together, amounts to five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more, then
the city manager, or the city manager's designee, shall have the authority to:
   1.   Sell such article(s) to the highest bidder through a competitive
process, after due notice of inviting bids; or
   2.   Upon approval of the commission, to exchange or trade such article(s)
for new or reconditioned article(s) which have an equal or greater market
value, or to exchange such article(s) for services which have an equal or
greater market value and that will have a direct benefit to the city. A
statement of the reasons for such exchange shall be recorded with the office of
the city clerk.
C.   Auction: When it is practicable and advantageous for the city to utilize
an auction to sell surplus supplies, or a reverse auction to buy supplies,
services, or information technology systems, and when it meets the city's
objectives to do so, the city manager, or the city manager's designee, may
employ an auction or reverse auction process.
D.   Live Or Online Auction: Auctions or reverse auctions may be conducted
online, in person, or both at the same time. Auctions or reverse auctions may
be conducted live, with bidders competing in real time. Bidders' participation
in an auction or a reverse auction may be required as a step in another
competitive process.
E.   Exception: If the value of the item is less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), then such item may be sold without advertisement. (Ord. 441, 3-8-
2016)
CHAPTER 4
BUDGET
SECTION:
2-4-1: Municipal Budget; Adoption, Filing
2-4-2: Transfer Of Unexpended Or Unencumbered Appropriations
2-4-1: MUNICIPAL BUDGET; ADOPTION, FILING:
A.   Public Hearing: The city commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed budget no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the
budget year. Notice of the date, time and place of the hearing, together with
the proposed budget summary, shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city not less than five (5) days before the date of the
hearing. The city clerk shall make available a sufficient number of copies of
the proposed budget as the city commission shall determine and have them
available for review or for distribution or sale at the office of the city
clerk. At the public hearing on the budget, any person may present to the city
commission comments, recommendations or information on any part of the proposed
budget.
B.   Adoption Of Budget: After the hearing and at least seven (7) days prior to
the beginning of the budget year, the city commission shall adopt the budget by
resolution. The city commission may add or increase items or delete or decrease
items in the budget. In all cases, the proposed expenditures shall not exceed
the estimated revenues for any fund.
C.   Filing Of Adopted Budget: The adopted budget shall be transmitted to the
state auditor and inspector and one copy shall be kept on file in the office of
the city clerk. A copy of the city sinking fund requirements shall be filed
with the excise board of Payne County.
D.   Effective Date: The adopted budget shall be in effect on and after the
first day of the fiscal year to which it applies. The budget as adopted and
filed with the state auditor and inspector shall constitute an appropriation
for each fund, and the appropriation thus made shall not be used for any other
purpose except as provided by law.
E.   Tax Levy: At the time required by law, the county excise board shall levy
the taxes necessary for the city sinking fund for the budget year pursuant to
62 Oklahoma Statutes section 431.
F.   Amendments: The city commission may amend the budget to make supplemental
appropriations to any fund up to the amount of additional revenues which are
available for current expenses for the fund due to:
   1.   Revenues received or to be received from sources not anticipated in the
budget for that year;
   2.   Revenues received or to be received from anticipated sources but in
excess of the budget estimates therefor;
   3.   Unexpended unencumbered cash balances on hand at the end of the
preceding fiscal year which had not been anticipated or appropriated in the
budget. Any appropriation authorizing the creating of an indebtedness shall be
governed by the application provisions of article 10 of the Oklahoma
constitution.
G.   Amendments Adopted, Filed: A budget amendment as provided in this section
authorizing supplemental appropriations or a decrease or change in
appropriation or funds shall be adopted at a meeting of the city commission and
filed with the city clerk and the state auditor and inspector. (2010 Code § 6-
5)
2-4-2: TRANSFER OF UNEXPENDED OR UNENCUMBERED APPROPRIATIONS:
A.   The city manager, or designee, as authorized by the governing body, may
transfer any unexpended and unencumbered appropriation, or any portion thereof,
from one account to another within the same department, or from one department
to another within the same fund, ("intrafund transfers"); except that no
appropriation for debt service or other appropriation required by law or
ordinance may be reduced below the minimums required. Any fund balance in an
enterprise fund of the city may be transferred to another fund of the city
("interfund transfers") as authorized by the city commission. Other interfund
transfers may be made only as adopted or amended according to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17-206 or 17-216.
B.   All interfund transfers shall be made only in accordance with the
appropriations provided by the city commission for such transfers. Such
appropriations shall be contained in the original or amended budget of the
City. Once lawfully appropriated and approved by the city commission, interfund
transfer payments may be made by the city treasurer without further city
commission approval. Such transfers, however, may not exceed the amount
lawfully appropriated. The manner of payment of these interfund transfers shall
be consistent with the manner used for the payment of purchases of goods,
services, and capital as described in Section 2-8-3. The city treasurer shall
record or cause to be recorded these interfund transfers in the appropriate
journals and ledgers.
C.   No encumbrance or expenditure may be authorized or made by any officer or
employee which exceeds the available appropriations for each classification
level defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 17-213. (2010 Code § 6-6; amd.
Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
CHAPTER 5
FUNDING AND ACCOUNTING
SECTION:
2-5-1: Funds Established; Accounting
2-5-2: Sinking Fund
2-5-3: Service Fee For Dishonored Checks And ACH Debit Payments
2-5-4: Additional Fee For Accounts Sent To Collections
2-5-5: Additional Fee For Debit Or Credit Card Payments
2-5-1: FUNDS ESTABLISHED; ACCOUNTING:
The city shall establish funds consistent with legal and operating
requirements. The city shall maintain, according to its own needs, some or all
of the following funds or ledgers in its system of accounts:
A.   A general fund, to account for all monies received and disbursed for
general municipal government purposes, including all assets, liabilities,
reserves, fund balances, revenues and expenditures which are not accounted for
in any other fund or special ledger account. All monies received by the city
under the motor fuel tax or under the motor vehicle license and registration
tax and earmarked for the street and alley fund may be deposited in the general
fund and accounted for as a "street and alley account" within the general fund.
Expenditures from this account shall be made as earmarked and provided by law.
All references to the street and alley fund or to the special fund earmarked
for state shared gasoline and motor vehicle taxes may mean the street and alley
account provided in this section;
B.   Special revenue funds, as required, to account for the proceeds of
specific revenue sources that are restricted by law to expenditure for
specified purposes;
C.   Debt service fund, which shall include the municipal sinking fund,
established to account for the retirement of general obligation bonds or other
long term debt and payment of interest thereon and judgments as provided by
law. Any monies pledged to service general obligation bonds or other long term
debt must be deposited in the debt service fund;
D.   Capital project funds, to account for financial resources segregated for
acquisition, construction or other improvement related to capital facilities,
other than those accounted for in enterprise funds and nonexpendable trust
funds;
E.   Enterprise funds, to account for each utility or enterprise or other
service, other than those operated as a department of the general fund, where
the costs are financed primarily through user charges or where there is a
periodic need to determine revenues earned, expenses incurred or net income for
a service or program;
F.   Trust and agency funds, to account for assets held by the city as trustee
or agent for individual, private organizations or other governmental units or
purposes, such as retirement funds or a cemetery perpetual care fund;
G.   Internal service funds, to account for the financing of goods or services
provided by one department or agency of the city to another department or
agency, or to another government, on a cost reimbursement basis;
H.   A ledger or group of accounts in which to record the details relating to
the general fixed assets of the city;
I.   A ledger or group of accounts in which to record the details relating to
the general bonds or other long term debt of the city;
J.   Such other funds or ledgers as may be established by the city commission.
(2010 Code § 6-7)
2-5-2: SINKING FUND:
A.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the city to handle, deposit,
invest and use the money in the sinking fund of the city in the manner provided
by 62 Oklahoma Statutes sections 431 through 451, and any other applicable
provisions of law.
B.   The city clerk shall deposit daily all uninvested sinking fund money in
his hands in banks as provided by law. (2010 Code § 6-8; amd. 2012 Code)
2-5-3: SERVICE FEE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS AND ACH DEBIT PAYMENTS:
There shall be assessed and collected, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, an administrative service fee as established by resolution of
the city commission on each check or ACH debit payment returned to the city by
reason of the refusal of the bank upon which such check or ACH debit payment
was drawn to honor the same; provided, in the event that two (2) such
dishonored checks or ACH debit payments are made to the city within any last
preceding twelve (12) month period, payment of any fee, fine, penalty or other
charge thereafter by the maker of such dishonored checks or ACH debit payments
shall be made and accepted only by a certified or cashier's check, or cash.
(Ord. 375, 5-11-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
2-5-4: ADDITIONAL FEE FOR ACCOUNTS SENT TO COLLECTIONS:
Pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-138, the city authorizes a
collection fee, not to exceed thirty five percent (35%), to be added to all
debts, accounts receivable, court penalties, costs, fines, fees, penalties,
interest and other sums due the city that are turned over to a third party
collection agency. (Ord. 365, 3-9-2010)
2-5-5: ADDITIONAL FEE FOR DEBIT OR CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS:
A.   There shall be assessed and collected a debit or credit card service fee
in such amount as established by resolution of the city commission on each
manual or online transaction made to the city through any authorized bill pay
program for payment of utility bill, fee, fine, cost, penalty assessment,
donations, or other charge or collection.
B.   The service fee shall be limited to bank processing fees and financial
transaction fees, the cost of providing for secure transaction, portal fees,
and fees necessary to compensate for increased bandwidth incurred as a result
of providing for an online transaction. (Ord. 386, 4-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 481, 11-12-2019)
CHAPTER 6
DEPOSIT OF FUNDS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Deposit Of Funds; Security
2-6-1: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS; SECURITY:
A.   Deposits: The funds of the city shall be deposited as required by law.
B.   Authority Of City Clerk: With approval of the city commission, the city
clerk shall have authority to deposit surplus funds of the city in his custody
in banks on a time deposit basis at the highest rate of interest obtainable for
such time deposit. (2010 Code § 6-9)
C.   Security: The deposits of the city shall be secured as required by state
law. (2010 Code § 6-9; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS, LEASES PROHIBITED
SECTION:
2-7-1: Interests In City Contracts And Transactions
2-7-1: INTERESTS IN CITY CONTRACTS AND TRANSACTIONS:
A.   No member of the city commission may sell or furnish for a consideration,
any materials or supplies for use of the city; and any member of the commission
voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to, such contract or purchase is
personally liable as provided by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 372.
B.   The city commission shall not make any contract with any of its members,
or in which any of its members shall be directly or indirectly interested, such
contracts being prohibited by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 371.
C.   No officer of the city may become directly or indirectly interested
individually in any sale, lease or contract which he is authorized to make,
such being prohibited by 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 344. (2010 Code § 6-10)
CHAPTER 8
CLAIMS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Payroll Disbursements
2-8-2: Competitive Bidding
2-8-3: Purchases Of Goods, Services, And Capital
2-8-4: Debt Service
2-8-5: Petty Cash
2-8-6: Financial Reporting
2-8-7: Purchasing Requirement For Large Purposes
2-8-8: Incurring Indebtedness
2-8-9: Applicability To Public Trusts
2-8-1: PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS:
A.   For all employees and officers of the City, a documented record shall be
maintained in a personnel file of the authorized rate of pay or salary and
authorized deductions for each employee or officer.
B.   For each pay period, a documented record of time worked and leave taken
shall be prepared, in the form of time sheets, cards or logs, for each employee
and officer to be paid. For employees exempt from the overtime provisions of
the Fair Labor Standards Act, the record may exclude time worked. Such record
of time worked and leave taken shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing
by the employee or officer and approved by the employee's/officer's supervisor.
C.   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll statement or register,
including the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions, and net pay, shall be
prepared and submitted to the City Manager for review and written approval.
D.   Upon approval of the payroll statement or register, the net payroll checks
or direct deposits shall be prepared along with checks, Automated Clearing
House, direct deposits, or wire transfers for payment of related payroll taxes
and other payroll benefits, required by law or contract.
E.   The checks or direct deposit report shall be presented to the City
Treasurer or designee along with the approved payroll statement or register.
The Treasurer shall compare the checks or direct deposits to the payroll
statement or register and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, two (2)
signers on the bank account shall sign any checks and prepare them for
distribution. In addition, the Treasurer shall prepare or caused to be prepared
a check or payment register.
F.   No payroll-related encumbrances are required to be recorded in the
budgetary accounting records as long as the payroll costs are recorded as
expenditures at the time they become due and payable. However, no payroll costs
may be incurred or paid if they exceed the available appropriation for the
purposes as established by the City Commission.
G.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the appropriate
journals and ledgers the payroll costs incurred and/or paid for the pay period.
H.   A copy of the payroll statement, register or payroll check register may be
provided to the City Commission for informational purposes; however, the City
Commission approval is not required prior to the payment of payroll-related
costs if incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above. (Ord. 513,
5-13-2025)
2-8-2: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
A.   The City shall adhere to the provisions of Oklahoma Statutes (2001), Title
61, Sections 101 et seq. when determining when competitive bidding is required
and the manner in which competitive bids will be obtained.
B.   In addition to the requirements of A above, public trusts created pursuant
to O.S. Title 60, Section 176, of which the City is beneficiary, shall also
follow the competitive bidding provisions of Section 176(g) of Title 60. (Ord.
513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-3: PURCHASES OF GOODS, SERVICES, AND CAPITAL:
A.   The City Manager shall designate certain individuals as purchasing
officers empowered to purchase or contract against budget appropriations. Only
these designated individuals will be empowered to obligate the City.
B.   For all purchases of goods, services or capital (all purchases or
disbursements other than payroll and debt service), purchase orders or
contracts shall be prepared and approved, in writing, by a designated
purchasing officer prior to the time the purchase commitment is made. The
approved purchase order or contract shall be forwarded to an officer or
employee charged with keeping the appropriation and expenditure records
(encumbering clerk) who shall determine that there exists available
unencumbered appropriation for that purpose. Upon such determination, the
encumbering clerk shall attest to that fact in writing. If appropriation is not
available for the proposed purchase or commitment, the purchase or commitment
shall not proceed until budget amendments are authorized to provide sufficient
appropriation. Upon approval of the purchasing officer and encumbering clerk,
an encumbrance shall be recorded in the appropriation and expenditure records
in the amount or estimated amount of the commitment.
   These encumbering requirements shall not apply to the following type of
purchases or commitments:
   1.   Payroll and payroll-related expenses;
   2.   Utility and telephone services by entities governed by State
Corporation Commission;
   3.   Insurance and employee benefits contracts.
C.   For all purchases or contracts for goods, services or capital over twenty
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), City Commission approval shall be obtained
prior to the time the commitment is made, and such approval shall be recorded
in the minutes of the Commission. Single purchases for a price of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or less may be made by the City Manager in
compliance with Code Section
2-2-1 and shall not require City Commission approval.
D.   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of contract
provisions, an invoice or claim form shall be obtained adequately documenting
request for payment. The officer or employee receiving satisfactory delivery of
merchandise or contract service shall acknowledge such fact by signing the
invoice, claim form, delivery ticket or receiving advice.
   The invoice or claim form, along with the written acknowledgment of receipt,
shall be forwarded to the officer or employee responsible for processing
accounts payable who shall review the invoice for accuracy and propriety,
including comparison to the authorized purchase order or contract, if
applicable.
   Upon completion of the accounts payable officer review, the invoice or claim
form along with the related supporting documentation shall be submitted to the
City Manager or designee for consideration by, and the written approval of, the
City Manager or designee. All invoices or claim forms approved for payment by
the City Manager or designee shall be paid upon certification of the invoices
or claim forms by the City Manager or designee.
E.   Upon approval of the invoices or claims for payment by the City Manager,
checks, wire transfers, Automated Clearing House, or other payment documents as
authorized by State law (11 O.S., Section 17-102) shall be prepared and
submitted to the City Treasurer or designee, along with copies of the approved
invoices or claim forms.
   The Treasurer or designee shall compare the payment documents to the invoice
or claim form and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, two (2) signers on
the bank account shall sign the checks or other documents. In addition, the
Treasurer shall prepare or cause to be prepared a check or disbursement
register and shall distribute or cause to be distributed the payments.
F.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the appropriate
journals and ledgers the purchases and cash disbursements incurred and paid.
G.   The city, in compliance with state statute, may issue a blanket purchase
order for any recurring purchases of goods or services if a maximum authorized
amount for all purchases pursuant to a blanket purchase order is specified in
the order and approved by the city commission. (Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-4: DEBT SERVICE:
A.   All long-term indebtedness, in the form of bonds, notes or lease purchase
obligations, shall be incurred only in the manner provided by law.
B.   Once lawfully incurred, payments of principal and interest on the bonds or
notes and payments on the lease purchase obligations shall be paid in
accordance with the terms as specified in the bond indenture, note agreement or
lease purchase contract by the City Treasurer without further approval of the
governing body.
C.   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for the
payment of purchases of goods, services, or capital as described in Section 2-
8-3 above.
D.   The City Treasurer shall record or cause to be recorded in the appropriate
journals and ledgers the debt service payments and maintain current records of
the remaining amount of indebtedness. (Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-5: PETTY CASH:
A.   As provided for in 11 O.S., Section 17-102(D) of the Oklahoma State
Statutes, the City may have petty cash accounts for use in making certain small
payments for costs incurred in operating the municipality.
B.   Each petty cash account established shall require City Commission
approval, including the amount of the petty cash imprest balance. However, in
no case, should the imprest balance exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
C.   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly itemized
invoices or petty cash voucher slips and by then processing the reimbursement
in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods, services, and capital.
(Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-6: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
The City Treasurer, or their designee, shall prepare a monthly budget status
report in accordance with a comparison of actual results to date and the budget
by purpose. The report shall be placed on the Agenda for City Commission
acknowledgment at a meeting of the City Commission in the month following the
close of the monthly period. (Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-7: PURCHASING REQUIREMENT FOR LARGE PURPOSES:
The purchase of any property, real or personal, or the acquisition of any
interest therein the value of which property, lease, or interest is greater
than an amount equal to four percent (4%) of the City of Perkins general fund
budget for the most immediate prior fiscal year budget or the amount of sixty
five thousand dollars ($65,000.00) whichever amount is smaller shall be made
only in accordance with Section 4-5 of the City of Perkins Charter. (Ord. 513,
5-13-2025)
2-8-8: INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS:
As provided for in Article 10, Section 26 of the Oklahoma Constitution, the
City is prohibited from becoming indebted in any manner for any purpose in an
amount exceeding the amount appropriated by the City Commission for such
purpose, without voter approval. (Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
2-8-9: APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC TRUSTS:
For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S., Sections 176-180, for which
the City is beneficiary and for which the trust's governing body (Trustees) are
comprised entirely of members of the City Commission, the requirements of
Sections
2-8-1 through
2-8-6 above shall apply. For the purposes of the public trusts, as used above,
the trust's governing body shall mean board of trustees of the trust, City
Manager shall mean Trust Manager as appointed by the trustees, and City
Treasurer shall mean Trust Treasurer as appointed by the trustees or required
by the trust indenture. (Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
CHAPTER 9
WARRANTS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
SECTION:
2-9-1: Warrants; Disbursement Of Funds
2-9-1: WARRANTS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
A.   Statute Authority: Warrants shall be issued and processed, and funds of
the city disbursed, only for legal purposes and in accordance with 62 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 471 through 485, and 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 17-102.
(2010 Code § 6-13; amd. Ord. 513, 5-13-2025)
CHAPTER 10
BONDS; ISSUANCE AND SALE
SECTION:
2-10-1: Bonds; Issuance And Sale
2-10-1: BONDS; ISSUANCE AND SALE:
Bonds of the city shall be issued, sold, paid and handled in all respects as
provided by 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 351 et seq., and other applicable
provisions of law. (2010 Code § 6-14)
CHAPTER 11
EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS
SECTION:
2-11-1: Examination And Audit Of Books And Records
2-11-1: EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
A.   Authority: The books of the city clerk shall be subject to examination by
the city commission at all times, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
17-105. Likewise, the records of all other officers and employees of the city
shall be subject to inspection by the city commission at all times, subject to
the confidentiality requirements of each department.
B.   Public Accountant Designated: The city commission shall designate a
qualified public accountant to audit the financial records and transactions of
the city clerk and all other personnel of the city who keep financial records
and make financial transactions, as of the end of every fiscal year at least,
and such accountant shall make such audit and shall report to the city
commission and to such other officer or governmental entity as may be required
by the Oklahoma Statutes.
C.   Perkins Water And Sewer Trust: The city commission shall cause an audit to
be performed not less than annually of the books and financial records of the
Perkins water and sewer trust and such audit shall be reported to the city
commission and to such other office or governmental entity as may be required
by the Oklahoma Statutes.
D.   Statute Requirements: All audit reports made and given to the city
commission shall comply with the requirements of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
17-106.1.
E.   Publication: The city commission shall cause there to be published, within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the annual audit reports, a notice of
availability for public inspection the audit reports of the city and the
Perkins water and sewer trust. (2010 Code § 6-15)
CHAPTER 12
INSURANCE
SECTION:
2-12-1: Property, Vehicle Insurance
2-12-1: PROPERTY, VEHICLE INSURANCE:
A.   The city commission may insure property of the city as authorized by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 23-101, and 19 Oklahoma Statutes section 627. Any
money received as a result of destruction, damage or loss of such insured
property shall be accounted for and used as provided by said sections. (2010
Code § 6-16)
B.   The city commission may purchase insurance to pay damage to persons
sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of negligent operation
of motor vehicle or motorized equipment of the city, as authorized by Oklahoma
Statutes. (2010 Code § 6-16; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 13
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-13A-1: Citation And Codification
2-13A-2: Definitions
2-13A-3: Tax Collector Defined
2-13A-4: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-13A-5: Subsisting State Permits
2-13A-6: Effective Date
2-13A-7: Purpose Of Revenues
2-13A-8: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
2-13A-8-1: Additional Excise Tax (Sales Tax) For Public Safety Departments
2-13A-8-2: Sales Tax Code
2-13A-8-3: Additional Excise Tax (Sales Tax) For the Perkins Public Library
2-13A-9: Exemptions
2-13A-10: Tax Due When; Returns; Records
2-13A-11: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-13A-12: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-13A-13: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax
2-13A-14: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
2-13A-15: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
2-13A-16: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
2-13A-17: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
2-13A-18: Fraudulent Returns; Penalty
2-13A-19: Records Confidential
2-13A-20: Amendments
2-13A-21: Provisions Cumulative
2-13A-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This article shall be known and shall be cited as the CITY OF PERKINS SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2010 Code § 6-17)
2-13A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specified otherwise herein, the definitions of words, terms and phrases
contained in the Oklahoma sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1351 et
seq., are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
In addition to the definitions contained herein and in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1352, the term "gross receipts" shall also include the total retail
sale price received for the sale, preparation or service of mixed beverages,
ice and nonalcoholic beverages to be mixed with alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation and service occurs
shall constitute the gross receipts from such transaction. (2010 Code § 6-18)
2-13A-3: TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED:
The term "tax collector", as used herein, means the department of the city
government or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law
or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax herein
levied. (2010 Code § 6-19)
2-13A-4: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code. (2010 Code § 6-20)
2-13A-5: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
article, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2010 Code § 6-21)
2-13A-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become and be effective on and after April 1, 1971, unless
otherwise amended. (2010 Code § 6-22)
2-13A-7: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article that the first two
percent (2%) tax levied shall be for providing revenues for the support of the
functions of the municipal government of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, and
that the remaining one percent (1%) shall be providing revenues for the purpose
of directly funding the costs of acquiring, remodeling, renovating, maintaining
and constructing the city library facilities, repairing and extending the water
supply and distribution system, constructing additional water storage
facilities, improving and extending the sanitary sewer system, acquiring,
remodeling, renovating, maintaining and constructing the fire department
facilities and/or equipment, resurfacing, repairing, paving and improving
limited access facilities of said city and to acquire equipment to be utilized
for any of the purposes stated above and/or to deposit such revenues in the
sinking fund of the city to be used to pay the principal and interest
requirements on the general obligation bonds and/or loans issued by said city
for any or all of the purposes above stated. After satisfaction of the above
purposes, revenues from the sales tax shall be deposited in the general fund of
the city of Perkins to be used for capital improvements. (Ord. 413, 1-14-2014)
2-13A-8: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of three percent (3%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax
law of Oklahoma, as specified in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1354. (2010 Code
§ 6-24; amd. 2012 Code)
2-13A-8-1:   ADDITIONAL EXCISE TAX (SALES TAX) FOR PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENTS:
There is hereby imposed an excise tax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in
addition to any and all other excise tax which is now in force to be levied
upon the gross proceeds or receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma sales tax code. The purpose of this tax is to provide revenues for the
purpose of constructing, improving, repairing, and/or operating and maintaining
existing, as well as new fire, police and emergency management facilities and
equipment in the city, and/or for the payment of debt service in connection
with obligations issued to finance said facilities and equipment. One-eighth of
one percent (1/8%) of the excise tax provided for hereby shall terminate on
June 30, 2020. (Ord. 402, 6-11-2013)
2-13A-8-2: SALES TAX CODE:
Additional One Quarter of One Percent (1/4%) Excise Tax (Sales Tax) for capital
improvements and operations expenses for Perkins Parks and Recreational
facilities.
A.   A limited-term excise tax (sales tax) in the amount of one quarter of one
percent (1/4%) is hereby levied upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts
derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax laws of the state of
Oklahoma.
B.   The limited-term excise tax levied pursuant to Section
2-13A-8-2  above may be expended only for the limited purpose of providing
revenues for the general operations, programming, and Capital Improvements to
Perkins Parks and Recreational facilities.
c.   For purposes of this Section, "Capital Improvements" shall mean without
limitation any one or more of the following:
   1.   The acquisition of real or personal properties or any interests therein
or appurtenances thereto; and/or
   2.   The construction, reconstruction, demolition, installation, assembly,
renovation, repairing, remodeling, restoring, furbishing, refurbishing,
furnishing, refurnishing, equipping, reequipping, or maintenance of the Perkins
Parks and Recreational building(s), structures, fixtures, or personal
properties or on any park or recreational real properties or interests therein
or appurtenances thereto; and/or
   3.   Any other type of beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement, or amelioration of or upon any real property, or any
interest therein or appurtenances thereto, belonging to the City of Perkins,
intended to enhance its value, beauty, or utility or to adapt it to new or
further purposes.
D.   Expenditures to provide capital improvements under this section may
include expenditures for any or all items, articles, costs, or expenses related
in any way to provide parks and recreational facilities capital improvement,
including without limitation the following:
   1.   Payments of the costs of acquiring real or personal properties or
interests therein and appurtenances thereto;
   2.   Payments of the costs of construction, reconstruction, demolition,
installation, assembly, renovation, repairing, remodeling, restoring,
furbishing, refurbishing, furnishing, refurnishing, equipping, reequipping, and
maintenance;
   3.   Payment of architectural costs, engineering costs, or consulting costs;
   4.   Payments of project management costs, administrative costs, and legal
costs;
   5.   Payment of any other items, articles, costs or expenses related,
incidental, or ancillary in any way to providing parks and recreational
facilities capital improvements;
   6.   Reimbursements or paybacks for expenditure made by a public trust with
the City as its beneficiary for the purpose of providing parks and recreational
facilities capital improvement, and/or
   7.   If deemed necessary or appropriate by the City Council for cash-flow
purposes, for the payment of principal and interest on and the costs of
issuance of bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness issued by a public
trust with the City as its beneficiary for the purpose of providing a parks and
recreational facilities capital improvements.
E.   For purposes of this Section, "General Operations" shall mean without
limitation any of the general operations, programming, or other expenses or
costs of the Perkins Parks and Recreational Facilities, specifically including
but not limited to salaries, maintenance of facilities and real property, costs
of programs, and other expenditures related to the ordinary operations of the
city's parks and recreation department.
F.   Pursuant to the authority of 68 O.S. § 2701(B) there is hereby created a
limited-purpose fund to be known as the "Perkins Parks and Recreational
Facilities Capital Improvements Sales Tax Fund" (hereinafter, the "Fund") into
which all revenues collected pursuant to this Section shall be accumulated from
year-to-year. The Fund shall be placed in an insured interest-bearing account
and the interest that accumulates on the Fund shall be retained in the Fund.
The Fund shall be non-fiscal and shall not be considered in any computations of
the City for needed appropriations. Monies in the Fund shall be expended only
as accumulated and only for the limited purpose specified above.
G.   The excise tax (sales tax) levied pursuant to Section
2-13A-8-2  above shall be for a limited term of ten (10) years, beginning at
twelve o’clock (12:00) a.m. on July 1, 2024 and terminating at twelve o’clock
(12:00) a.m on June 30, 2034.
H.   As used in this Section, the word "City" shall mean the City of Perkins,
Payne County, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation, and/or any public trust with
the City as its beneficiary.
I.   The limited-term excise tax (sales tax) levied pursuant to this Section
2-13A-8-2  shall be cumulative to all other excise taxes (sales taxes)
currently levied by the City on gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from
all sales taxable under the sales tax laws of the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 496,
11-14-2023)
2-13A-8-3: ADDITIONAL EXCISE TAX (SALES TAX) FOR THE PERKINS PUBLIC LIBRARY:
Section 2-13A-8-3: Additional Excise Tax (Sales Tax) For the Perkins Public
Library:
There is hereby imposed an additional one quarter of one percent (1/4%) Excise
Tax (Sales Tax) for capital improvements and operations expenses for the
Perkins Public Library.
A.   A limited-term excise tax (sales tax) in the amount of one quarter of one
percent (1/4%) is hereby levied upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts
derived from all sales taxable under the sales tax laws of the State of
Oklahoma.
B.   The limited-term excise tax levied pursuant to Section
2-13A-8-3  above may be expended only for the limited purpose of providing
revenues for the General Operations of and Capital Improvements to the Perkins
Public Library.
C.   For purposes of this Section, "Capital Improvements" shall mean without
limitation any one (1) or more of the following:
   1.   The acquisition of real or personal properties or any interests therein
or appurtenances thereto; and/ or
   2.   The construction, reconstruction, demolition, installation, assembly,
renovation, repairing, remodeling, restoring, furbishing, refurbishing,
furnishing, refurnishing, equipping, reequipping, or maintenance of the Perkins
Public Library building(s), structures, fixtures, or personal properties or on
any Library real properties or interests therein or appurtenances thereto; and/
or
   3.   Any other type of beneficial or valuable change or addition,
betterment, enhancement, or amelioration of or upon any real property, or any
interest therein or appurtenances thereto, belonging to the Library, intended
to enhance its value, beauty, or utility or to adapt it to new or further
purposes.
D.   Expenditures to provide Library capital improvements under this Section
may include expenditures for any or all items, articles, costs, or expenses
related in any way to provide Library capital improvements, including without
limitation the following:
   1.   Payments of the costs of acquiring real or personal properties or
interests therein and appurtenances thereto;
   2.   Payments of the costs of construction, reconstruction, demolition,
installation, assembly, renovation, repairing, remodeling, restoring,
furbishing, refurbishing, furnishing, refurnishing, equipping, reequipping, and
maintenance;
   3.   Payment of architectural costs, engineering costs, or consulting costs;
   4.   Payments of project management costs, administrative costs, and legal
costs;
   5.   Payment of any other items, articles, costs or expenses related,
incidental, or ancillary in any way to providing library capital improvements;
   6.   Reimbursements or paybacks for expenditure made by a public trust with
the city as its beneficiary for the purpose of providing a library capital
improvement; and/ or
   7.   If deemed necessary or appropriate by the City Commission for cash-flow
purposes, for the payment of principal and interest on and the costs of
issuance of bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness issued by a public
trust with the City as its beneficiary for the purpose of providing a Library
capital improvement.
E.   For purposes of this Section, "General Operations" shall mean without
limitation any of the general operations, programming, or other expenses or
costs of the Perkins Public Library, specifically including but not limited to
salaries, maintenance of facilities and real property, costs of programs, and
other expenditures related to the ordinary operations of the Perkins Public
Library.
F.   Pursuant to the authority of 68 O.S. § 2701(B) there is hereby created a
limited-purpose fund to be known as the "Perkins Public Library Capital
Improvements Sales Tax Fund" (hereinafter, the "Fund") into which all revenues
collected pursuant to this Section shall be accumulated from year-to-year. The
Fund shall be placed in an insured interest-bearing account and the interest
that accumulates on the Fund shall be retained in the Fund. The Fund shall be
non-fiscal and shall not be considered in any computations of the City for
needed appropriations. Monies in the Fund shall be expended only as accumulated
and only for the limited purpose specified above.
G.   The excise tax (sales tax) levied pursuant to Section 2-13A-8-3 above
shall be for a limited term of ten (10) years, beginning at twelve o’clock (12:
00) a.m. on July 1, 2024 and terminating at twelve o’clock (12:00) a.m on June
30, 2034.
H.   As used in this section, the word "City" shall mean the City of Perkins,
Payne County, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation, and/ or any public trust with
the City as its beneficiary.
I.   The limited-term excise tax (sales tax) levied pursuant to this Section
shall be cumulative to all other excise taxes (sales taxes) currently levied by
the City on gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable
under the sales tax laws of the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 495, 11-14-2023)
2-13A-9:EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from the sales tax levied herein shall be allowed pursuant to
Oklahoma Statutes. (2010 Code § 6-25; amd. 2012 Code)
2-13A-10:TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the sales tax law
of the state. (2010 Code § 6-27)
2-13A-11:PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and
in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the sales
tax law of Oklahoma.
B.   The bracket system for the collection of the three percent (3%) city sales
tax by the tax collector shall be as the same is hereinafter adopted by the
agreement of the city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the
three percent (3%) city sales tax and the three and one-fourth percent (31/4%)
state sales tax. (2010 Code § 6-28)
2-13A-12:TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2010 Code § 6-29)
2-13A-13:VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to
collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied under this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts. (2010 Code § 6-30)
   C.   A vendor, as defined herein, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied under this
article, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (2010 Code § 6-30; amd. 2012 Code)
2-13A-14:RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the state sales tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales taxes. (2010 Code §
6-31)
2-13A-15:INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this article; provided, that the failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this
article. (2010 Code § 6-32)
2-13A-16:WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions
of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article. (2010 Code § 6-33)
2-13A-17:ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund or erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitation of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(2010 Code § 6-34)
2-13A-18:FRAUDULENT RETURNS; PENALTY:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 6-35; amd. 2012 Code)
2-13A-19:RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2010 Code § 6-36)
2-13A-20:AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of this tax at the election, herein
authorize the board of commissioners by ordinance duly enacted to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this tax as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as
provided by law. (2010 Code § 6-37)
2-13A-21:PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (2010 Code § 6-38)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
2-13B-1: Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Tangible Personal
Property Levied
2-13B-2: Purposes Of Revenues
2-13B-3: Exemptions
2-13B-4: Time When Due; Returns; Payment
2-13B-5: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-13B-6: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
2-13B-7: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State; Permits
2-13B-8: Revoking Permits
2-13B-9: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
2-13B-10: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
2-13B-11: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
2-13B-12: Erroneous Payment; Claim For Refund
2-13B-13: Fraudulent Returns
2-13B-14: Records Confidential
2-13B-15: Provisions Cumulative
2-13B-16: Provisions Severable
2-13B-17: Definitions
2-13B-1: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consuming within the municipality of such property at the municipal
sales tax rate existing and as may be hereafter amended, on the purchase price
of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using, or
otherwise consuming within the municipality, tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into the municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder
shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property within the
municipality and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside Oklahoma;
provided, that tax levied herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal
property intended solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored
in the municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is
temporarily retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication,
repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable
for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or
municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that
the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the
taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-2: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the municipality,
and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing
body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully
expended as authorized. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-3: EXEMPTIONS:
There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this article the
gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the use tax law of Oklahoma 1 .
(Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS 1980 § 1404.
2-13B-4: TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-5: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 399, 4-16-
2013)
2-13B-6: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
the state of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in this municipality shall at the
time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this article from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax
commission the name and address of all his/her agents operating in this
municipality and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or
offices or other places of business in this city. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-7: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS:
The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who make sales of tangible personal
property for use in this municipality and by the out of state place of business
of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at such out of
state place of business for use in this municipality. Such retailer or vendor
may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the tax
commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements, as it
shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or
vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his/her
knowledge for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit may be
canceled when at any time the tax commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality. Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the point of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number
accordingly. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-8: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes 1991, section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if
any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state, may after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in
this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has
complied with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or
any order, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-9: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes. (Ord. 399,
4-16-2013)
2-13B-10: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes 1991, section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of
this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this article, provided,
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit
his/her claim to any discount allowed under this article. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-11: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes 1991, section 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-12: ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes 1981,
section 227, and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable
provisions of said section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this article. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-13: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof the
offending taxpayer shall be fined an amount not to exceed the maximum fine
allowed by law for nonjury trials plus court costs and/or imprisonment not to
exceed thirty (30) days. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-14: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes 1991,
section 205, of the uniform tax procedure, and each subsection thereof, is
hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the municipality use tax as if it is herein set forth in
full. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-15: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
2-13B-16: PROVISIONS SEVERABLE:
The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any section,
paragraph, sentence or clause of this article is for any reason held invalid or
inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof. (Ord. 399, 4-
16-2013)
2-13B-17: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes 1991, section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this article. In addition thereto, the following words and
terms shall be defined as follows:
   CITY/TOWN: The city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS: For the purpose of this article, the
classification of taxpayers hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for
purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
   SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS: All valid and subsisting permits to do business
issued by the tax commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are for the
purpose of this article hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
   TAX COLLECTOR: As used herein means the department of the municipality
government or the official agency of the state, duly designated according to
law or contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of the tax
herein levied.
   TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 399, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 14
IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION
SECTION:
2-14-1: Scope And Authority
2-14-2: Administrative Rules Adopted By Reference
2-14-1: SCOPE AND AUTHORITY:
A.   Pursuant to federal law, the federal trade commission adopted identity
theft rules requiring the creation of certain policies relating to the use of
consumer reports, address discrepancy and the detection, prevention and
mitigation of identity theft.
B.   The federal trade commission regulations adopted as 16 CFR section 681.2,
require creditors, as defined by 15 USC section 1681a(r)(5), to adopt red flag
policies to prevent and mitigate identity theft with respect to covered
accounts.
C.   15 USC section 1681a(r)(5) cites 15 USC section 1691a, which defines a
creditor as a person that extends, renews or continues credit, and defines
"credit", in part, as the right to purchase property or services and defer
payment therefor.
D.   The federal trade commission regulations include utility companies in the
definition of creditor.
E.   The city is a creditor with respect to 16 CFR section 681.2 by virtue of
providing utility services, or by otherwise accepting payment for municipal
services in arrears.
F.   The federal trade commission regulations define "covered account", in
part, as an account that a creditor provides for personal, family or household
purposes that is designed to allow multiple payments or transactions and
specifies that a utility account is a covered account.
G.   The federal trade commission regulations require each creditor to adopt an
identity theft prevention program which will use red flags to detect, prevent
and mitigate identity theft related to information used in covered accounts.
H.   The city provides water, sewer and refuse collection services for which
payment is made after the product is consumed or the service has otherwise been
provided which, by virtue of being utility accounts, are covered accounts.
I.   Customer accounts for municipal court fines for which payment is made
after the fine is imposed are covered accounts by virtue of allowing for
multiple payments or transactions.
J.   The federal trade commission regulations, adopted as 16 CFR section 681.1,
require users of consumer credit reports to develop policies and procedures
relating to address discrepancies between information provided by a consumer
and information provided by a consumer credit company. (Ord. 387, 5-10-2011)
2-14-2: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The city commission adopts and approves the administrative rules, entitled
"Identity Theft Prevention Program", attached to the ordinance codified herein
and on file in the city office. (Ord. 387, 5-10-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Application For Certificate; Investigation
3-1-3: Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
3-1-4: Occupation Tax
3-1-5: Payment Required; Penalty
3-1-6: Annual Report
3-1-7: Location Of Package Stores, Wholesalers, And Mixed Beverage
Establishments
3-1-8: Sale Or Delivery Of Alcoholic Beverages To Minors Or Intoxicated Persons
Prohibited
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
All of the terms and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the same use
and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Act, Oklahoma
Statutes or regulations promulgated by the ABLE Commission with the same force
and effect as if set forth in full herein and such definitions are hereby made
a part hereof by reference.
   ABLE COMMISSION: Means the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission.
   ALCOHOL: Means and includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It
does not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced
as denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Means alcohol, spirits, beer, and wine as those terms
are defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
   BEER: Means any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley or other grain, malt or
similar products. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.
The term "beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter, and other malt or other brewed liquors, but does not include sake,
known as Japanese rice wine.
   BEER KEG: Means any manufacturer-sealed, single container that contains not
less than four (4) gallons of beer.
   BREWER: Includes any person who manufactures for human consumption by the
use of raw materials or other ingredients any beer upon which a license fee and
a tax are imposed by any law of this State.
   BREWPUB: Means a licensed establishment operated on the premises of, or on
premises located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
   CATERER: Means any person authorized to sell mixed beverages for on-premises
consumption incidental to the sale or distribution of food and who is required
to have a caterer's license from the State Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission.
   CIDER: Means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation
of fruit juice, including but not limited to flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider. For the purposes of the distribution of this product, cider may be
distributed by either wine and spirits wholesalers or beer distributors.
   CONVENIENCE STORE: Means any person primarily engaged in retailing a limited
range of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of
operation, whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in
combination with such sales.
   CONVICTED AND CONVICTION: Mean and include a finding of guilt resulting from
a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the decision of a court or Magistrate or
the verdict of a jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of judgment or the
suspension thereof.
   DISTILLER: Means any person who produces spirits from any source or
substance, or any person who brews or makes mash, wort, or wash, fit for
distillation or for the production of spirits (except a person making or using
such material in the authorized production of wine or beer, or the production
of vinegar by fermentation), or any person who by any process separates
alcoholic spirits from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or
keeping mash, wort, or wash, has also in his possession or use a still.
   GROCERY STORE: Means a person primarily engaged in retailing a general line
of food, such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh
and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL: Means an establishment which is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink and which contains guestroom accommodations
with respect to which the predominant relationship existing between the
occupants thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is that of
innkeeper and guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of other legal
relationships as between some occupants and the owner or operator thereof shall
be immaterial.
   MANUFACTURER: Means brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier, or bottler of
any alcoholic beverage and includes its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent
companies.
   MEALS: Means foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least part of
which is cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining
implements for consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as
appetizers, sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered "meals".
   MINI-BAR: Means a closed container, either refrigerated in whole or in part,
or nonrefrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
   A.   Restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device, or
   B.   Controlled at all times by the licensee.
   MIXED BEVERAGE COOLER: Means any beverage, by whatever name designated,
consisting of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice, fruit or
vegetable flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing more than
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of alcohol measured by volume but not more
than seven percent (7%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F)
and which is packaged in a container not larger than three hundred seventy five
milliliters (375 mL). Such term shall include, but not be limited to, the
beverage popularly known as a "wine cooler".
   MIXED BEVERAGES: Means one or more servings of a beverage composed in whole
or part of an intoxicating alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container
of any legal size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the
holder of a mixed beverage, caterer, beer and wine, public event, charitable
event or special event license.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Means a place where motion pictures are exhibited
and to which the general public is admitted, but does not include a place where
meals, as defined by this section, are served, if only persons over twenty one
(21) years of age are admitted.
   OCCUPATION (As Used In Connection With Occupation Tax): Means the sites
occupied as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers, beer
distributors, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, on-premises beer and wine
licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event licensees.
   OFFICER: Means any officer, director, stockholder, owner, manager, or any
person who has a financial interest in a State licensee or who directs any
policy of a State licensee.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Means any container of alcoholic beverage filled and
stamped or sealed by the manufacturer.
   OWNER: Means any officer, owner, manager or other person who shall receive
any percentage of profits directly from the operation of a tavern or directs
any policy of a tavern.
   PACKAGE STORE: Means any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to
sell wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
   PATRON: Means any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by a
licensee or who is not a licensee.
   PERSON: Means an individual, any type of partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal
structure of any such business entity.
   PREMISES: Means the grounds and all buildings and appurtenances pertaining
to the grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct or indirect
control of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the control of the
licensee and used in connection with or in furtherance of the business covered
by a license. Provided that the ABLE Commission shall have the authority to
designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely for the
purpose of:
   A.   Allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by private
parties which are closed to the general public, or
   B.   Allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages provided
by a private party.
This exception shall in no way limit the licensee's concurrent responsibility
for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or this title
occurring on the licensed premises.
   PRIVATE EVENT: Means a social gathering or event attended by invited guests
who share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior
established relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for
general public attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not
constitute a private event.
   PUBLIC EVENT: Means any event that can be attended by the general public.
   RECTIFIER: Means any person who rectifies, purifies, or refines spirits or
wines by any process (other than by original and continuous distillation, or
original and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash, or other substance,
through continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the production thereof is
complete), and any person who, without rectifying, purifying, or refining
spirits, shall by mixing (except for immediate consumption on the premises
where mixed) such spirits, wine, or other liquor with any material, manufacture
any spurious, imitation, or compound liquors for sale, under the name of
whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, wine, spirits, cordials, or any other name.
   REGULATION OR RULE: Means a formal rule of general application promulgated
by the ABLE Commission as herein required.
   RESTAURANT: Means an establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the individual drink for on-premises consumption and where food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
   RETAIL CONTAINER FOR SPIRITS AND WINES: Means the original package for
spirits and wines of any capacity approved by the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
   RETAILER: Means a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug
store licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption
pursuant to a retail spirits license, retail wine license or retail beer
license.
   SALE: Means any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, and includes all sales made by any person, whether as principal,
proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SHORT ORDER FOOD: Means food other than full meals including but not limited
to sandwiches, soups and salads. Provided that popcorn, chips and other similar
snack food shall not be considered "short order food".
   SMALL BREWER: Means a brewer who manufactures less than twenty five thousand
(25,000) barrels of beer annually pursuant to a validly issued small brewer
license hereunder.
   SMALL FARM WINE: Means a wine that is produced by a small farm winery with
seventy five percent (75%) or more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries, other
fruits, honey or vegetables.
   SMALL FARM WINERY: Means a wine-making establishment that does not annually
produce for sale more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of wine as
reported on the United States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco
Tax and Trade Bureau, Report of Wine Premises Operations (TTB Form 5120.17).
   SPARKLING WINE: Means champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
   SPECIAL EVENT: Means an entertainment, recreation or marketing event that
occurs at a single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic
beverages are sold.
   SPIRITS: Means any beverage other than wine, beer or light beer, which
contains more than one-half of one percent alcohol measured by volume and
obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in
solution, and includes those products known as whiskey, brandy, rum, gin,
vodka, liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds; but shall
not include any alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts
of Congress and regulations pursuant thereto.
   STATE LICENSEE: Means any person holding a license under the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant, or employee of such
licensee while in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the
licensed business or on the licensed premises.
   WINE: Means and includes any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty four percent
(24%) alcohol by volume at sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) obtained by the
fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
   WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALER OR WINE AND SPIRITS DISTRIBUTOR: Means and
includes any sole proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine and
spirits in the State. The term "wholesaler", as used in this Act, shall be
construed to refer to a wine and spirits wholesaler.
   WINEMAKER: Means any person who produces wine. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; INVESTIGATION:
A.   Application: Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with Zoning,
Fire, Health and Safety Codes of the City required by 37 Oklahoma Statutes
shall apply at the Office of the City Manager by:
   1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
(2010 Code § 2-4)
   2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as
established by resolution of the City Commission at the time of filing. (2010
Code § 2-4; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the City Manager shall cause an investigation to be made to
determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply with
provisions of the zoning ordinances and any Health, Fire, Building and other
Safety Codes applicable to it.
C.   Time Limit For Action By City: The City shall act on all such applications
within twenty (20) days of receipt thereof. (2010 Code § 2-4)
3-1-3: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
A.   Issuance: Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate
is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE Commission of the State.
B.   Signature Required: The above certificates of compliance shall be signed
by the Mayor or the City Manager. (2010 Code § 2-5)
3-1-4: OCCUPATION TAX:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual Occupation Tax on every business
or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as established by resolution of
the City Commission. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-1-5: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
A.   Payment Required; When Due: Any State licensee originally entering upon
any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of the
City Clerk on or before the date upon which such licensee enters upon such
occupation. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax annually on or before
April 1. All Occupational Taxes levied under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire on March 31 of each year.
B.   Prorated For Beginning Operations: The Occupation Tax subject to this
chapter shall be prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an
occupation begins operations.
C.   Receipt; Display: Upon payment of the said Occupation Tax, the City Clerk
shall issue a receipt and a certificate to said State licensee, at least one of
which said licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein
he carries on his occupation.
D.   Limitations: The Occupation Taxes levied by this chapter shall cover only
the person paying the tax and no other successor thereof and shall not be
refundable nor transferable under any circumstances.
E.   Penalty: Any person who engaged in any of the occupations taxed by this
chapter without paying said Occupation Tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation, is guilty of an offense against the City and, upon a conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-1-6: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Director of Finance shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission,
covering the fiscal year, showing the number and class of licenses subject to
the Occupation Tax and the amount of money collected from said tax. (2010 Code
§ 2-3)
3-1-7: LOCATION OF PACKAGE STORES, WHOLESALERS, AND MIXED BEVERAGE
ESTABLISHMENTS:
A.   No package store, beer, wine or mixed beverage establishment, wholesale
alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, or brewery, distillery, winery, brewpub,
or any other place however described, used or maintained for the manufacture,
production, bottling or sale of alcoholic beverages of any kind shall be
located, maintained or operated by any person at any place within the City
except at a location at which such an establishment is permitted by the Land
Development Code of this City.
B.   No person shall own, operate, maintain or be interested in any retail
package store or beer and wine or mixed beverage establishment which is located
at a place within the City, which is forbidden as a location for such store by
State law and such stores or establishments are specifically prohibited within
three hundred feet (300') from any church property, primarily and regularly
used for worship services and religious activities, or a public school;
provided, that if any such church or school shall be established within three
hundred feet (300') of any premises after such premises has been licensed, this
shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in
continuous force and effect. The distance indicated in this subsection shall be
measured from the nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest
public entrance door of the premises of such package store along the street
right-of-way providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians
between such points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property
situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be
considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with such
church and school. Provided, that a license shall not be issued for a location
on any block where a school or church is located. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-1-8: SALE OR DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS OR INTOXICATED PERSONS
PROHIBITED:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, dispense or deliver any
alcoholic beverage to any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, manager or operator of a place
where alcoholic beverages are sold to sell or otherwise furnish such beverage
to any intoxicated person.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any person under twenty one
(21) years of age to drink any alcoholic beverage. It shall be unlawful for a
person under twenty one (21) years of age to resort to or loiter in such a
place, to buy or otherwise secure such beverage therein, or to drink such
beverage therein.
D.   No person shall lend or give his or her operator's or chauffeur's license
or identification to any person or persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years, or knowingly permit the use thereof by any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years, when said operator's or chauffeur's license or
identification is used for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic beverages. (2010
Code § 2-8)
CHAPTER 2
RESTRICTIONS ON THE POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF ALCOHOL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-2: State License Required (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-3: City License Required (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-4: Separate Licenses Required For Each Establishment (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-
11-2018)
3-2-5: Qualification Of Applicant And Licensee (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-6: Application For License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-7: Fee For License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-8: Rebates (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-9: Expiration Of License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-10: Renewal Of License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-11: Display Of License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-12: Premises Location Restrictions (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-13: Hours During Which Sale Prohibited
3-2-14: Employment Of Persons Under Twenty One
3-2-15: Intoxicated Persons; Gambling; Disorderly Conduct
3-2-16: Underage Persons Not Permitted In Package Stores Or Licensed Premises
3-2-17: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-2-18: Drinking In Public
3-2-19: Sale Or Delivery To Minors Or Intoxicated Persons (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-
11-2018)
3-2-20: Right Of Entry And Inspection
3-2-21: Rental Based On Percentage Of Profit Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-
11-2018)
3-2-22: Conduct In Premises; Signage Required (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-23: Revocation Of License (Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-24: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-2: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-3: CITY LICENSE REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-4: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED FOR EACH ESTABLISHMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-5: QUALIFICATION OF APPLICANT AND LICENSEE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-7: FEE FOR LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-8: REBATES:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-11: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-12: PREMISES LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-13: HOURS DURING WHICH SALE PROHIBITED:
A.   No package store, or the premises upon which it is located, shall be open
for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any hour other than
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight Monday through Saturday. No sales shall be made nor shall package
store premises remain open for the purpose of making sales or receiving
deliveries of alcoholic beverages on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
B.   No holder of a retail wine license or a retail beer license shall sell any
beer or wine at any hour other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day, Monday through Sunday.
C.   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed on the
premises of a mixed beverage, caterer, public event, charitable event, special
event, on-premises beer and wine, small brewer or brewpub licensee between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 469, 9-11-
2018)
3-2-14: EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
No State licensee shall employ any person under twenty one (21) years of age in
the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages except as authorized by title 37
or 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-15: INTOXICATED PERSONS; GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a place where alcoholic
beverages are sold for consumption on the premises to sell or otherwise furnish
such beverage to an intoxicated person or to permit an intoxicated person to
remain or loiter therein. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-16: UNDERAGE PERSONS NOT PERMITTED IN PACKAGE STORES OR LICENSED PREMISES:
A.   Prohibited By Licensee: No licensee, operator or employee shall permit any
person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter into, remain within or
loiter upon or about the premises of any package store or place where alcoholic
beverages may be sold, dispensed, or served for consumption on the premises,
except as authorized by State law.
B.   Prohibited From Entering: No person under twenty one (21) years of age
shall enter, remain within or loiter upon or about the premises of any package
store or place where alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, or served for
consumption on the premises, except as authorized by State law.
C.   Sale And Purchase Of Alcoholic Beverages: It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or
otherwise dispense to, any minor any alcoholic beverage; or for any minor to
purchase, receive or procure any alcoholic beverage.
D.   Possession Of Alcoholic Beverage Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to be in possession of any alcoholic
beverage within the City. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-17: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall misrepresent his age in
writing, orally, or by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him alcoholic beverages or to enter or attempt to
enter a package store or a separate or enclosed bar area as designated by the
ABLE Commission. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-18: DRINKING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to drink any low
point beverage while such person is upon any public street, alley or other
public highway, or in any public building or other public place, within the
City; provided, this shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking
such beverage in a place licensed to sell it for consumption on the premises.
(2010 Code § 2-17)
3-2-19: SALE OR DELIVERY TO MINORS OR INTOXICATED PERSONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-20: RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION:
The right of entry and inspection of any premises, books and records subject to
the control of any person, association or corporation, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, by any officer or agent of any department charged
with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter by the City, shall be a
condition on which every license shall be issued, and the application for and
the acceptance of any license hereunder shall conclusively be deemed consent of
the applicant and licensee to such entry and inspection. (2010 Code § 2-20)
3-2-21: RENTAL BASED ON PERCENTAGE OF PROFIT PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-22: CONDUCT IN PREMISES; SIGNAGE REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-23: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
3-2-24: PENALTY:
Any person, individual, partnership, corporation or association, or officer,
director, stockholder, owner, manager or persons having supervisory control
over the premises of any public place that violates any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day upon which such violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Registration And Information Required
3-3-4: Application For License
3-3-5: License Fee
3-3-6: Term Of License
3-3-7: License To Be Carried On Person
3-3-8: Exhibition Of License Upon Request
3-3-9: Licenses Nontransferable
3-3-10: Hours Of Operation
3-3-11: Orders To Be Taken In Writing
3-3-12: Exemptions To Provisions
3-3-13: Revocation Of License
3-3-14: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   CANVASSER: One who in a given area goes from house to house in an effort to
take orders for goods or services.
   INTERSTATE COMMERCE: Soliciting, selling or taking orders for any goods,
services, wares, merchandise, photographs, newspapers or magazines, or
subscriptions to newspapers or magazines which, at the time the order is taken,
are in another state or will be produced in another state and shipped or
introduced into this City in the fulfillment of such order.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT: Those persons who, for a short period of time, locate in
a city and make sales, rentals, or deliveries of their goods or services as
established merchants do.
   PERISHABLE COMMODITY: A relative term used ordinarily by courts to describe
a product like fruit, fresh vegetables or meat that quickly deteriorates in
quality and value.
   SOLICITOR: Any person who goes from house to house, or place to place, in
the City, filling or taking orders for, or offering to sell, rent or take
orders for, goods, services, wares, merchandise or any article for present or
future delivery. (Ord. 471, 10-9-2018)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a solicitor within the meaning
and application of this chapter without first securing a license from the City
Clerk. (2010 Code § 5-5; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3-3: REGISTRATION AND INFORMATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to go from house to house, or place to
place, in the City soliciting, selling or taking orders for, or offering to
sell or take orders for, any goods, wares, merchandise, services, photographs,
newspapers or magazines, or subscriptions to newspapers or magazines, without
having first registered with the City Clerk and giving the following
information:
A.   The name, home address and local address, if any, of the registrant;
B.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation, if any, that he
represents or for whom or through who orders are to be solicited or cleared;
C.   The nature of the articles or things which are to be sold, or for which
orders are to be solicited;
D.   Whether the registrant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, receive or
accept payment of any deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
E.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
F.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders taken
for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
G.   A copy of the applicant's Oklahoma sales tax permit, including the sales
tax permit number, or if the application is a charitable organization, a copy
of the applicant's Oklahoma sales tax exemption; (2010 Code § 5-1)
H.   The applicant shall further provide a copy of any permit or license held
by applicant for the sale of perishable commodities. The Payne County health
department or such other governmental licensing department or agency as may be
appropriate shall have issued such license or permit. Failure to hold and
possess such license shall disqualify the applicant from receiving a city
license. (2010 Code § 5-1; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to engage in any activity mentioned in this chapter shall
make written application to the city clerk for a license to do so, which
application shall show proof of identity, the name and address of the person
the applicant represents, the kind of goods offered for sale and whether the
applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand or accept a payment or deposit
of money in advance of the final delivery, and the length of time for which the
right to do business is desired. This application shall also contain any other
requirements of information previously specified in other sections of this
chapter. (2010 Code § 5-5)
3-3-5: LICENSE FEE:
A.   The annual fee for an itinerant merchant, solicitor or canvasser license
shall be in such amount as established by the city commission. In case the
applicant is engaging in any activity mentioned in sections of this chapter
through one or more agents or employees, in that case each agent designated
shall carry upon his person an individual license that shall have been issued
through the city clerk. Fees provided for herein shall be deposited to the
general fund of the city. (2010 Code § 5-6; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   None of the license fees provided for by this chapter shall be so applied
as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case where a
license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place an
undue burden upon interstate commerce, he may apply to the city commission for
an adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable
or unfair as to such commerce. Such application may be made before, at or
within three (3) months after payment of the prescribed license fee. The
applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting testimony, show his method of
business and the gross volume, or estimated gross value, of business and such
other information as the city commission may deem necessary in order to
determine the extent, if any, of such undue burden on such interstate commerce.
The city commission shall then conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's
business with other businesses of like nature and shall make findings of fact
from which they shall determine whether the fee fixed by this chapter is
unreasonable, unfair or discriminatory as to applicant's business, and shall
fix as the license fee for the applicant an amount that is fair, reasonable and
nondiscriminatory, or if the fee has already been paid, shall order a refund of
the amount over and above the fee so fixed. (2010 Code § 5-6)
3-3-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance. (2010 Code § 5-6)
3-3-7: LICENSE TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity described in this
chapter unless he is carrying on his person, while so engaged, a valid license
issued under this chapter. (2010 Code § 5-7)
3-3-8: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE UPON REQUEST:
Any person soliciting or canvassing within the city shall exhibit his license
upon demand of any police officer, constable, citizen or householder of the
city. (2010 Code § 5-5)
3-3-9: LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE:
Assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted. (2010 Code § 5-10)
3-3-10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No solicitor or canvasser shall operate in any residential section in the city
except between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and dusk. The provisions
of this chapter shall not prevent the delivery of goods to a regular customer
under any general or customary arrangement as might be made with a regular
clientele; nor shall its provisions apply to the sale of insurance policies by
insurance companies and its salespersons licensed under the state insurance
code, or to the gratuitous dissemination of any materials with respect to
noncommercial matter. (2010 Code § 5-4)
3-3-11: ORDERS TO BE TAKEN IN WRITING:
Orders taken by solicitors or canvassers shall be in writing, in duplicate,
stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance. One copy shall be
given to the purchaser. (2010 Code § 5-3)
3-3-12: EXEMPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
A.   Sales of goods, wares or merchandise made to dealers or retailers by any
commercial travelers or sales agents in the usual course of business;
B.   Delivery of goods, wares or merchandise to a regular customer under any
general or customary arrangement as might be made with a regular clientele;
C.   Sales of farm or dairy products produced or grown by the person selling or
offering them for sale;
D.   Gratuitous dissemination of any materials with respect to noncommercial
matter;
E.   Sales of goods, wares and merchandise by any individual who shall be
determined to be acting on behalf of a registered nonprofit organization;
F.   Sales of goods, wares and merchandise made as a part of any residential
garage or yard sale;
G.   Sales of goods, wares and merchandise made as a part of any arts and
crafts festival, show, bazaar, bake sale, or similar event lasting not longer
than three (3) days;
H.   Sales of goods, wares and merchandise by any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years who engages in business as an itinerant merchant or
peddler. (2010 Code § 5-9)
3-3-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A.   Conditions: Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked by the city commission after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
   1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as a solicitor or canvasser;
   3.   Any violation of this chapter;
   4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
   5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing in an unlawful
manner, or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the hearing of revocation of a license shall
be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and
the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to
the licensee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date
set for hearing. (2010 Code § 5-8)
3-3-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 5-25; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Compliance With Regulations Required
3-4-2: Regulations Specified
3-4-3: Penalty
3-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
operate, to conduct or maintain any pool or billiard hall, domino or card
parlor, room or place within the city, except as provided in this chapter;
provided, that this chapter shall not in any way prohibit the maintenance or
operation of pool, billiard, domino or card tables in any private home or club
where no fee or charge is paid for persons playing said games. (2010 Code § 5-
11)
3-4-2: REGULATIONS SPECIFIED:
All pool or billiard halls, domino or card parlors located in the city shall be
subject to the following, among other regulations herein contained:
A.   No slot machine, game of chance or betting shall be permitted in, operated
or carried on in such hall, room or place.
B.   No prizefight, boxing contest or wrestling match shall be permitted
therein. (2010 Code § 5-12)
C.   Nonintoxicating liquors in such a place is prohibited and no loud,
boisterous noises nor profane or vulgar language shall be permitted therein.
(2010 Code § 5-12; amd. 2012 Code)
D.   The drinking of intoxicating liquors in such a place is prohibited and no
loud, boisterous noises nor profane or vulgar language shall be permitted
therein.
E.   No disorderly conduct or disorderly assembly shall be permitted therein.
F.   Suitable and sanitary restrooms shall be provided for the patrons.
G.   No such hall, room or place shall be permitted to be open for the playing
of pool, billiards, cards or dominoes on Sunday, and no such room, hall or
place shall be permitted to remain open later than twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight, nor shall any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years be permitted
to be or remain in or about or upon the premises or to play pool, billiards,
cards or dominoes therein without the written consent of his parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by his parent or guardian. (2010 Code § 5-12)
3-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 5-25; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required; Fee
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Conditions Of License
3-5-5: Register Maintained
3-5-6: Hours Of Operation
3-5-7: Receiving Goods From Certain Persons Prohibited
3-5-8: Unlawful To Receive Certain Goods
3-5-9: Restriction As To Age Of Persons Selling To Pawnbrokers
3-5-10: Concealing Certain Property Prohibited
3-5-11: Examination, Investigation And Access To Records
3-5-12: Revocation, Surrender Of License
3-5-13: Compliance Required; Applicability Of State Law
3-5-14: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk for the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, or his
authorized representative.
   PAWN TRANSACTION: The act of lending money on the security of pledged goods,
or the act of purchasing tangible personal property on condition that it may be
redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period
of time.
   PAWNBROKER: A person engaged in the business of making pawn transactions.
   PAWNSHOP: The location at which or premises in which a pawnbroker regularly
transacts business.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trust,
association or any other legal entity however organized.
   PLEDGED GOODS: Tangible personal property other than chooses in action,
securities or printed evidences of indebtedness, which properties deposited
with or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in the
course of his business in connection with the pawn transaction. (2010 Code § 5-
13)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall engage in pawnshop business without first obtaining a license
from the city clerk, which shall specifically authorize engaging in said
business. Any person making application for a pawnbroker's license shall pay an
annual regulatory fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
commission. No license to engage in business as a pawnbroker shall be granted
to any person who has been convicted or has entered a plea of guilty in any
court for knowingly receiving, accepting, handling, selling or otherwise
disposing of any property which has been stolen. (2010 Code § 5-14; amd. 2012
Code)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a pawnshop license shall be made under oath and shall
state the full name and residence of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the full name and place of residence of each member thereof shall
be stated. If the applicant is a corporation, the full name and place of
residence of each officer or major stockholder thereof shall be stated. The
application shall give the approximate location from which the business is to
be conducted and shall contain such relevant information as the city clerk may
require. (2010 Code § 5-14)
3-5-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
A.   Content; Display Required; Nontransferable: Each license shall state the
name of the licensee and the address at which the business is to be conducted.
The license shall be displayed at the place of business named in the license
and shall not be transferable nor assignable, except upon securing written
approval of the city clerk.
B.   Separate License Required: A separate license shall be required for each
pawnshop operated under this section. The city clerk may, however, issue more
than one license to any one person upon compliance with provisions of this
chapter as to each license.
C.   New Location; Notice Required: When a licensee wishes to move his pawnshop
to another location, he shall give thirty (30) days' written notice to the city
clerk, who shall amend the license accordingly.
D.   Force And Effect: Each license shall remain in full force and effect until
relinquished, suspended, revoked or expired. (2010 Code § 5-15)
E.   Regulatory Fee Due; Delinquency: Every licensee, on or before each July 1,
shall pay the city clerk a regulatory fee in such amount as established by
resolution of the city commission for each license held by him as the annual
fee for the succeeding calendar year. If the annual fee remains unpaid fifteen
(15) days after written notice of delinquency has been given to the licensee by
the city clerk, the license shall thereupon expire. (2010 Code § 5-15; amd.
2012 Code)
3-5-5: REGISTER MAINTAINED:
Every pawnbroker shall keep at his place of business a register in which he
shall enter in writing a description of all property taken, purchased or
received by him, together with the date and time of the transaction and the
name and place of residence of the person leaving the property. Every entry
shall be made in ink and shall not be obliterated or erased and shall be made
within one hour after receipt or purchase of such property. To the person
negotiating or leaving such property, he shall give a plainly written or
printed ticket, having upon it a full and perfect copy of all entries required
by this chapter to be kept in such registry for which copy no charge shall be
made. A pawnbroker shall not be required to furnish such description of any
property purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers or of any goods
purchased at open sale or from any bankrupt stock or from any other person
having an established place of business; provided, that such goods shall be
accompanied by a bill of sale. The register above mentioned shall be open at
all times to inspection by the chief of police, any officer of the police
force, the city attorney and the district attorney for Payne County. Every
pawnbroker shall make out and deliver to the police chief each week, before one
o'clock (1:00) P.M. on Monday, a legible and correct copy from the register of
all personal property or other valuable thing received, deposited or purchased,
and a description of the person or persons by whom left in pledge or from whom
purchased. The pawnbroker shall, upon request, show and exhibit to such person
or official for inspection any article taken or received or purchased by him.
(2010 Code § 5-16)
3-5-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No pawnbroker shall purchase, take or receive on deposit, nor in any manner
procure from any person, any property between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M.; and all pawnbrokers shall remain
closed all day on Sunday and other mandatory legal holidays. (2010 Code § 5-17)
3-5-7: RECEIVING GOODS FROM CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to purchase, take or
receive in pledge or on deposit, or to accept possession of, any article of
property from any person under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs,
or from any person who has previously been convicted of larceny. (2010 Code §
5-18)
3-5-8: UNLAWFUL TO RECEIVE CERTAIN GOODS:
It is unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to purchase, take,
receive or keep possession or dispose of any stolen property, or to conceal
such property, or to fail to inform some proper official of the possession
thereof promptly, upon circumstances reasonably calculated to indicate that
such property has been stolen or possession thereof unlawfully obtained. (2010
Code § 5-19)
3-5-9: RESTRICTION AS TO AGE OF PERSONS SELLING TO PAWNBROKERS:
It is unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to purchase from, or
advance money to, any person under the age of twenty one (21) years upon any
pistol or revolver or to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years upon
any article whatever without the written consent of the parent or guardian of
such person, with a copy of the written consent to be furnished to the chief of
police. (2010 Code § 5-20)
3-5-10: CONCEALING CERTAIN PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
Any person who attempts to conceal any abandoned, stray or lost goods found or
taken up by him, or removes or attempts to remove numbers or brands thereon, or
carries the same beyond the city limits, or knowingly permits the same to be
done, or wilfully fails to cause the same to be advertised, sold or otherwise
dealt with as provided by applicable ordinances of the city is guilty of an
offense. (2010 Code § 5-21)
3-5-11: EXAMINATION, INVESTIGATION AND ACCESS TO RECORDS:
Such times as the chief of police may deem necessary, the chief of police or
his authorized representative may make an examination of the place of business
of such licensee and may inquire into and examine the transactions, books,
accounts, papers, correspondence and records of such licensee insofar as they
pertain to the business regulated by this chapter. Such books, accounts,
papers, correspondence and records shall also be open for inspection at any
reasonable time by any peace officer without any need of judicial writ or other
process. In the course of an examination, said peace officer shall have free
access to the office, place of business, files, safes and vaults of such
licensee, and shall have the right to make copies of any books, accounts,
papers, correspondence and records. Any licensee who fails or refuses to permit
the chief of police or his duly authorized representative, or any other peace
officer, to examine or make copies of such books or other relevant documents
shall thereby be deemed in violation of this chapter, and such failure or
refusal shall constitute grounds for the suspension or revocation of the
pawnbroker's license; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be
construed nor interpreted to be in conflict with the provisions of 59 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1508. (2010 Code § 5-22)
3-5-12: REVOCATION, SURRENDER OF LICENSE:
Any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer who is guilty of the violation of this or
any other ordinance of the city relating to such business, or permits any
employee to violate this or any other city ordinance, in addition to the fine
otherwise provided as a penalty, shall be, upon conviction thereof, deprived of
his pawnbroker or secondhand dealer license, and upon such conviction, the
municipal judge shall order such license to be revoked and surrendered. (2010
Code § 5-23)
3-5-13: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW:
All licensees within the city shall be required to conduct all pawnshop
operations in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any
other applicable provisions of this code. It is further provided that all
licensees are hereby required to conduct operations in compliance with the
provisions of the Oklahoma pawnshop act, said act to encompass the provisions
of 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1501 through 1515. All questions of law,
questions of fact or questions of procedure which may present themselves and
which are not covered by the provisions of any portion of this chapter shall
hereby be governed by the above referenced portions of the Oklahoma pawnshop
act. (2010 Code § 5-24)
3-5-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 5-25; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 6
SMALL BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Small Business Permit
3-6-3: Application For Permit
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   SMALL BUSINESS: Businesses operating from a trailer or portable structure
that will remain in place for an undetermined period of time. (Ord. 401, 5-14-
2013)
3-6-2: SMALL BUSINESS PERMIT:
Small business shall be considered the use of an existing developed site for
the purpose of conducting a minimal to no impact on a business site. A small
business may be permitted, provided that the business is a use by right in the
zoning classification in which the business will be located. The city manager
or his authorized representative shall determine if the addition of the small
business to the developed site will have little or no adverse impact on the
site and the area surrounding the site. Before approval of a small business
permit, a permit application shall be submitted to the city of Perkins. (Ord.
401, 5-14-2013)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application shall contain the following information:
A.   Small business owner name, contact information, and name of business;
B.   Property owner name and contact information;
C.   Written description of the proposed business;
D.   A drawing to scale of the property. The drawing should include primary
business location, parking and access, and the location of the proposed small
business on the site;
E.   Signatures of the property owner(s) and small business owner(s). (Ord.
401, 5-14-2013)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Miscellaneous Provisions
4-1-2: Penalty
4-1-1: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
A.   Obnoxious Weeds Prohibited; Public Nuisances: It is unlawful for the
owner, tenants or person in charge of a lot, tract or parcel of land, whether
vacant or not, to permit an obnoxious growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation thereon. (2010 Code § 11-11)
B.   Abandoned Iceboxes, Refrigerators: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to leave in a place accessible to children any abandoned or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door
with a lock or other fastening device which cannot be easily released for
opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator or container, without first
removing the door, lock or fastener. (2010 Code § 11-12)
C.   Potable Water: All premises intended for human habitation or occupancy
shall be provided with potable water. (2010 Code § 11-14)
D.   Nonpotable Water: Nonpotable water may be used for flushing water closets
and urinals and other purposes not requiring potable water; provided, that such
water shall not be accessible for drinking or culinary purposes. (2010 Code §
11-15)
E.   Surface Drainage: No opening shall be provided in any waste pipe in any
building, or upon any premises, for the purpose of receiving the surface
drainage. (2010 Code § 11-17)
4-1-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code or standard adopted by reference by this chapter, or maintains or permits
to continue any "public nuisance", as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (2010 Code § 11-18; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Open Burning Permitted
4-2-3: Conditions And Requirements For Open Burning Of Yard Brush
4-2-4: Burn Permits
4-2-5: Notification Of Open Burn
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Any substance which will readily burn.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE: Any refuse produced during normal daily household
operations.
   LAND MANAGEMENT: Activities that improve the condition of a land area or
reduces the threat of uncontrolled wildfires.
   OPEN BURNING: The burning of any materials wherein products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
county treasurer.
   REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, domestic refuse and all other wastes generated by
a trade, business, industry, building operation or household.
   YARD BRUSH: Cut or broken branches, leaves, limbs, shrubbery or tree
trimmings. It does not include refuse, grass clippings, inground tree stumps or
any nonvegetative material. (2010 Code § 1-50.1)
4-2-2: OPEN BURNING PERMITTED:
A.   No person shall cause or permit an open burning in any public or private
place outside any building, except for the following reasons and/or purposes:
   1.   Land management fires set by an approved state or local agency
specifically for management of forests or rangelands.
   2.   Prevention or control of disease or pests as approved by the state or
local health department.
   3.   Fire for the purpose of training public and industrial fire department
personnel.
   4.   Elimination of fire hazards that cannot be abated by any other means.
   5.   Recreational and ceremonial fires, i.e., campfires and other fires used
solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial occasions or noncommercial
preparation of food.
   6.   Yard brush may be burned on the property.
B.   Burning of domestic refuse, debris, tires, construction or demolition
material, or materials other than wood and vegetation, is expressly prohibited.
(2010 Code § 1-50.2)
4-2-3: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR OPEN BURNING OF YARD BRUSH:
Open burning under subsection
4-2-2A6 of this chapter may be conducted with the following provisions:
A.   No public nuisance is or will be created.
B.   The burning is conducted so that ambient air quality of the general area,
as well as the surrounding city, is not adversely affected.
C.   The burning is controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created as a
result of the air contaminants being emitted. The minimum distance for open
burning from any public roadway must be at least fifty feet (50').
D.   All burning will be conducted not less than one hundred feet (100') upwind
of any occupied structures. If open burning is proposed less than one hundred
feet (100') of any occupied structure, all adjoining occupied property owners
must consent in writing and submit such written consent to city hall.
E.   The minimum distance for open burning from oil and gas wells will be five
hundred feet (500'), unless otherwise approved by the city commission.
F.   The minimum distance for open burning from any electric and overhead
utilities shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50').
G.   All burning shall occur only between three (3) hours after sunrise and
three (3) hours before sunset, and additional fuel shall not be intentionally
added to the fire at times outside these limits. At sunset, the fires must be
extinguished or covered to eliminate any residual smoke.
H.   Wind speed must be less than ten (10) miles per hour.
I.   A burn permit must be obtained as set forth in section
4-2-4 of this chapter. Any open burning shall be constantly attended by at
least one adult until the fire is extinguished. Such adult must be named on the
applicable burn permit for that open burn and must be capable of producing such
permit upon demand. At least one working garden hose or equivalent source of
water shall be available for immediate utilization at all times.
J.   The fire department shall order the extinguishment of any open burning
that creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation. Owners or their
agents are required to extinguish the fire upon the order of the fire
department. Failure of such person to extinguish a fire will result in the fire
department extinguishing the fire.
K.   The burn site and the materials to be burned are subject to inspection at
any time during the burn period by the fire department, and the fire department
shall retain the authority to prohibit any burn at any time due to weather
conditions, excessive and justifiable complaints, noncompliance with this
chapter, and any time it is deemed in the best interest of the city. (2010 Code
§ 1-50.3)
4-2-4: BURN PERMITS:
A.   A burn permit shall be obtained from the fire chief or his designee prior
to burning. Such permits shall only be issued between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.
B.   A burn permit shall be valid for no more than one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of issuance.
C.   A burn permit shall not be issued during a burn ban or a red flag fire
alert and such permit shall become void in the event that a burn ban or a red
flag fire alert is ordered after such permit is issued. (2010 Code § 1-50.4;
amd. Ord. 480, 9-12-2019)
4-2-5: NOTIFICATION OF OPEN BURN:
The owner, or the agent of the owner, of the land upon which any open burning
is to take place must give oral notification to the city dispatch on the day of
the burning. In addition, it is recommended that owners notify all neighbors in
advance of the burning. (2010 Code § 1-50.5)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of an offense
against the city and, upon a conviction thereof, may be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (2010 Code § 1-50.6; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Enforcement Authority
4-3-3: Collection Of Garbage And Refuse
4-3-4: Service Charges
4-3-5: Container Requirements
4-3-6: Unlawful Use Of Containers
4-3-7: Commercially Manufactured Garbage Sacks
4-3-8: Yard Trash
4-3-9: Collection, Removal And Disposition
4-3-10: Accumulation Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
4-3-11: Dead Animals, Manure And Similar Refuse
4-3-12: Contagious Disease Refuse
4-3-13: Ownership Of Garbage And Yard Trash
4-3-14: Commercial Tree Trimmers; Construction Debris
4-3-15: Unauthorized Persons Transporting
4-3-16: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both, that is
the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, houses, dwelling houses, tenement
houses, market houses, public institutions, private hospitals, slaughterhouses,
butcher shops, poultry or fish stores, and all other places in the city.
   PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles or watercraft, or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Ashes, cinders, papers, broken ware, discarded shoes and clothing,
tin cans, lawn cuttings and weeds from yards, and such other refuse as may be
termed the natural accumulation of residences or business houses and not
falling within the meaning of the word "garbage", as defined in this section;
provided, that "garbage" and "rubbish" do not include animal manure nor their
carcasses. (2010 Code § 9-1)
4-3-2: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The city manager, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of
the city, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, to control the storage, collection and disposal of refuse within the
city, and to provide a public collection so that the type and usual quantity of
refuse can be safely and expeditiously handled by such public refuse collection
and disposal service. (2010 Code § 9-2)
4-3-3: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
The city shall have the exclusive right to collect, remove and dispose of
garbage and rubbish, or either of them, in the city, or may, through its duly
elected, qualified and acting officers, enter into a contract with some
suitable person, firm or corporation, granting the exclusive right to collect,
remove and dispose of garbage and rubbish, or either of them, in the city, such
contract to provide that such person, firm or corporation granted such
exclusive right by contract shall furnish to the city a good and sufficient
bond in an amount to be determined by the city, said bond to be conditioned
upon the faithful performance of duties under said contract, and said contract
shall contain such other and further provisions as may be deemed necessary and
proper by the city through its duly elected, qualified and acting officers.
(2010 Code § 9-17)
4-3-4: SERVICE CHARGES:
For the purposes of defraying the expense of collection, removal and disposal
of "garbage" and yard trash, as defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, the City Commission is authorized and directed to charge
fees for trash service to the owner or occupant of any premises within the
City. Such fees shall be collected by the City Clerk or appointed
representatives. Such fees shall be due on the twelfth day after the billing
date of the utility bill for services rendered during the preceding month
billing period, and such fees shall be charged, assessed and collected in such
amounts as set by the City Commission by motion or resolution. (2010 Code § 9-
19)
4-3-5: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Containers: The City may, at its discretion, furnish garbage containers
which will dump automatically, for use on certain premises throughout the City.
Such determination shall be made by the City Commission after inspection of the
premises to be served, and shall be based upon the amount of garbage produced
or accumulated on the premises, the convenience of the occupants of the
premises, and convenience of collection of garbage from the premises by the
City.
B.   Placement of Garbage and Rubbish in Container: Garbage and rubbish shall
be securely bagged prior to being placed in the container. No loose trash shall
be placed in the container.
C.   Location Of Container; Anchoring: In all areas of the City where there are
open, unobstructed, all-weather alleys wide enough for garbage collection
vehicles to travel with ease, such garbage containers shall, at all times, be
kept and maintained at the alley lot line on the premises served so as to be
immediately accessible to the collection vehicles. In all other areas of the
City, such garbage containers shall, at all times, be kept and maintained
within five feet (5') of the side or rear of the main structure or dwelling on
the premises, or in an accessible location convenient to the garbage collector,
to be determined by the City Commission.
D.   Lids Or Covers Of Garbage Containers: The lids or covers of all garbage
containers, whether provided by the occupant or owner of the premises, or
furnished and owned by the City as provided in subsection A of this section,
shall at all times be kept fastened so that flies and other insects may not
have access to the garbage contained therein, and such lids or covers shall be
removed only while depositing garbage into the garbage container, or while
emptying garbage therefrom.
E.   Duty To Maintain In Sanitary Condition: Garbage containers shall, at all
times, be maintained in good condition. Any container that does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter or that may have ragged or sharp edges, or any
other defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents
thereof, shall be promptly replaced upon five (5) days' written notice given by
the City Commission to the person whose responsibility it is to provide such
container. The City Commission shall have the authority to deny refuse
collection services for failure to comply herewith.
F.   Container Placement and Removal: All garbage containers placed at curbside
for collection shall be placed within five feet (5') from the back of curb or
edge of paved or graveled surface not more than twelve (12) hours prior to the
day of collection and shall be moved off of the right-of-way before the end of
the day of collection. (Ord. 463, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 505, 9-10-2024)
4-3-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTAINERS:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage or
otherwise interfere with the use of any trash or garbage container, or metal
refuse container, publicly or privately owned, within the corporate limits of
the City. No containers may be removed or relocated without the permission of
the City Commission.
B.   It shall be unlawful to deposit, place or throw trash or garbage in any
container, metal refuse container or dumpster that is not the container or
dumpster belonging to and being paid for by the person placing or depositing
said trash or garbage. (2010 Code § 9-16)
4-3-7: COMMERCIALLY MANUFACTURED GARBAGE SACKS:
Any occupant of premises may use a commercially manufactured disposable sack
inside the garbage containers, such sack to be provided at the sole expense of
such occupant. (2010 Code § 9-6)
4-3-8: YARD TRASH:
A.   Yard trash shall not be deposited in said garbage containers. In all areas
of the City where there are open, unobstructed alleys wide enough for
collection vehicles to travel with ease, said yard trash shall be placed at the
alley lot line on the premises served so as to be immediately accessible to the
collection vehicles. In all other areas of the City, said yard trash shall be
placed at the front curb.
B.   Said yard trash, except tree limbs, shall be placed in a sturdy container
not to exceed thirty five (35) gallons in volume or seventy five (75) pounds in
weight. All tree limbs shall be cut in lengths not to exceed four feet (4'),
and shall be placed in containers or separate piles at the front curb as
provided in subsection A of this section. (2010 Code § 9-8)
4-3-9: COLLECTION, REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION:
All garbage produced or accumulated within the corporate limits of the City,
and all yard trash, with such exceptions as to excessive amounts, shall be
collected, removed and disposed of by the City or its contract hauler. The City
Commission shall prescribe such rules and regulations as it may deem proper to
govern the manner and time for the collection, removal and disposition of
garbage or yard trash. (2010 Code § 9-9)
4-3-10: ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be unlawful for the owners or occupants of any premises in the City to
allow garbage or rubbish matter or putrid substances, whether animal or
vegetable, to accumulate thereon so as to cause an offensive odor to be emitted
therefrom, or to become in a condition injurious or dangerous to the health of
the neighborhood or any inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such. (2010 Code § 9-11; amd.
2012 Code)
4-3-11: DEAD ANIMALS, MANURE AND SIMILAR REFUSE:
Dead animals, manure, night soil and similar matter shall not be allowed to
accumulate or remain on any premises within the corporate limits of the City,
and shall be removed from the premises promptly by the occupant thereof. (2010
Code § 9-12)
4-3-12: CONTAGIOUS DISEASE REFUSE:
The removal of clothing and bedding from homes or other places where highly
infectious or contagious diseases have appeared shall be performed under
supervision and direction of the County Health Department. Such clothing and
bedding shall not be placed in garbage containers for collection. (2010 Code §
9-13; amd. 2012 Code)
4-3-13: OWNERSHIP OF GARBAGE AND YARD TRASH:
Ownership of garbage and yard trash set out for collection or deposited on the
City landfill shall be vested in the City, or its contract hauler if there be
one. (2010 Code § 9-14)
4-3-14: COMMERCIAL TREE TRIMMERS; CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS:
Commercial tree trimmers, and those persons who trim trees and brush for hire,
shall remove the same without cost to the City. All debris accumulated during
the construction or remodeling of buildings shall be removed by the builder or
person doing the remodeling, as the case may be, without cost to the City;
provided, however, the City may dispose of such debris for an extra fee as
determined by the City Commission. (2010 Code § 9-15)
4-3-15: UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS TRANSPORTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, unless authorized to
do so by the City, to remove from any premises or to transport through the
streets, alleys or public places of the City, any garbage or rubbish for
remuneration. Provided it shall be the duty and obligation of any such person,
firm or corporation to remove animal manure and the carcasses of their animals,
and dispose of the same in accordance with the ordinances of the City, the laws
of the State and the rules and regulations of appropriate departments and
agencies thereof. (2010 Code § 9-18)
4-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person, persons, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who fails to provide the necessary cans and receptacles herein
required, or allows the premises occupied by them to become unsanitary, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for each continuing offense, and each day of continuance or
a failure to comply herewith shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
for each of said days. (2010 Code § 9-21; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER AND HANDBILL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Litter
4-4-3: Handbills
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance used or designated for navigation or for flight in
the air. The word includes helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and
balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile, or commercial
establishment or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. The terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up
for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the same is held
or given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information.
Nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding,
giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or
event of any kind without a license where such license is or may be required by
laws of this state or under any ordinance of this city; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER: Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United
States, in accordance with statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and in addition
thereto, means any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not
less than four (4) issues per year and sold to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample, device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or other reproduced original or copies of any matter or
literature not included in the definition of a commercial handbill or
newspaper.
   PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited, or temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such
dwelling house, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleaning, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (2010 Code § 12-1)
4-4-2: LITTER:
A.   Litter In Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in
public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in
authorized city landfills. (2010 Code § 12-2)
B.   Placement Of Litter In Receptacles So As To Prevent Scattering: Persons
placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall
do so in such manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or upon private
property. (2010 Code § 12-3)
C.   Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (2010 Code § 12-4)
D.   Merchants Duty To Keep Sidewalks Free Of Litter: No person owning or
occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street
or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying places of business within the city shall keep the sidewalk
in front of their business premises free of litter. (2010 Code § 12-5)
E.   Litter Thrown By Persons In Vehicles:
   1.   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon
private property.
   2.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the littering from a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was the one from which litter was thrown or
deposited, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at
the time of such littering the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the person who caused
such littering from such vehicle at the point where such violation occurred.
(2010 Code § 12-6)
F.   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place. No person shall drive or move any vehicle
or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in
any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter
or foreign matter of any kind. (2010 Code § 12-7)
G.   Dropping Litter From Aircraft: No person in an aircraft shall throw out,
drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object. (2010
Code § 12-13)
H.   Litter On Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any occupied private property within the city, whether owned by such
person or not, except the owner or person in control of private property may
maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place, or upon private property. (2010
Code § 12-15)
I.   Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter: The owner or person in control
of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free of
litter; provided, however, that this subsection shall not prohibit the storage
of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection. (2010 Code § 12-16)
J.   Litter On Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open
or vacant private property within the city, whether owned by such person or
not. (2010 Code § 12-17)
4-4-3: HANDBILLS:
A.   Throwing Or Distributing Handbills In Public Places: No person shall throw
or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk,
street or other public place within the city. Nor shall any person hand out or
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place. It shall be
unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city for any
person to hand out or distribute any noncommercial handbill to any person not
willing to accept it. (2010 Code § 12-8)
B.   Placing Handbills On Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle. It is unlawful in
any public place for a person to hand out or distribute a noncommercial
handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is not willing to accept it. (2010
Code § 12-9)
C.   Depositing Handbills On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
private premises which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(2010 Code § 12-10)
D.   Posted Premises: No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any
commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by
anyone therein not to do so, or if there is placed on the premises in a
conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words "no
trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisement" or any similar
notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises do not
desire to be molested or have their rights of privacy disturbed, or to have any
such handbills left upon such premises. (2010 Code § 12-11)
E.   Distributing Handbills At Inhabited Private Premises:
   1.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which is inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting the handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however,
that in case of inhabited private premises which is not posted, as provided in
this section, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to
do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent
such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used
when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the distribution
of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall
be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place, or upon private property. (2010 Code § 12-12)
F.   Posting Notices Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (2010
Code § 12-14)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 12-18; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION AND PENALTY
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Procedures Cumulative
4-5A-2: Penalty
4-5A-1: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provision of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other; and
the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating
any particular nuisance. (2010 Code § 15-16)
4-5A-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an
offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act required by any such
provision, or who fails to do any act when such provision declares such failure
to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, or who violates any legal
order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, is guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. (2010 Code § 15-17; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. NUISANCES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
4-5B-1: Nuisance Defined; Public Nuisances; Private Nuisances
4-5B-2: Additional Public Nuisances Defined
4-5B-3: City Power To Define And Abate Nuisance
4-5B-4: Nuisance Unlawful
4-5B-5: Person Responsible
4-5B-6: Public Nuisance Remedies
4-5B-7: Private Nuisance Remedies
4-5B-8: Time Does Not Legalize
4-5B-9: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
4-5B-10: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-5B-1: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES:
A.   A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or
is any thing or condition, which either:
   1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   2.   Offends decency;
   3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage, any lake, navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
B.   A public nuisance is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance of damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
C.   Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this section is a private
nuisance.
Provided, that the above definitions shall be the same as those found at 50
Oklahoma Statutes sections 1 through 4. (2010 Code § 15-1)
4-5B-2: ADDITIONAL PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this
code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   1.   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
   2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the city;
   3.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
   4.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual intercourse
or other immoral acts are practiced;
   5.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinances are practiced or carried on;
   6.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
   7.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises, specifically including
playing radios, boom boxes, record players, cassette players, compact disk
players or any other audio device, which annoy persons of ordinary
sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
   8.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
   9.   Any use of a street or sidewalk, or a place adjacent thereto, which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinances;
   10.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
   11.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed, or which are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated
as to endanger the public safety;
   12.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things, which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist;
   13.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health or
safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
   14.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
   15.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
   16.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace, health,
morals, safety or welfare.
B.   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and
not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisance, either in more general or more specific terms. (2010 Code § 15-7)
4-5B-3: CITY POWER TO DEFINE AND ABATE NUISANCE:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
city has power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner
and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (2010 Code § 15-6)
4-5B-4: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or maintain a
nuisance within the city, or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under
his control within the city. (2010 Code § 15-10)
4-5B-5: PERSON RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (2010 Code § 15-2)
4-5B-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE REMEDIES:
The remedies against a public nuisance are:
A.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
B.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate court;
C.   Civil action;
D.   Abatement as follows:
   1.   By a person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12;
   2.   By the city in accordance with the law or ordinance. (2010 Code § 15-4)
4-5B-7: PRIVATE NUISANCE REMEDIES:
The remedies against a private nuisance are:
A.   Civil action;
B.   Abatement:
   1.   By the person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15;
   2.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (2010 Code § 15-5)
4-5B-8: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (2010 Code § 15-3)
4-5B-9: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
A.   Scope: Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the appropriate officer or agency of
the city government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement.
B.   Statement Of Nuisance: The chief of the fire department, the chief of
police, the city attorney, the building inspector, the electrical inspector,
the plumbing inspector, or any other officer of the city, may submit to the
city commission a statement as to the existence of a "nuisance", as defined by
the ordinances of the city or law, and a request or recommendation that it be
abated. The health officer, any trustee, or any resident or residents of the
city may submit such a statement and request or recommendation to the city
commission.
C.   Determination Of Nuisance; Notice; Hearing: The city commission shall
determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the
purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the commission shall have power
to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before
proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, the city commission
shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any
property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed responsible for or
to be causing the nuisance, and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if such
notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and
other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a
police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the names or
addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published
in a paper of general circulation within the city.
D.   Abatement; Statement Of Costs: If the city commission finds that a
nuisance does in fact exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if
the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If
such peace, health, safety, morals or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by
the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified time, the city
commission shall direct the appropriate city officer to abate the nuisance or
to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50
Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost
of such summary abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names
and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the
city, collectible as other debts may be collected. (2010 Code § 15-8)
4-5B-10: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (2010 Code § 15-9)
ARTICLE C. PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-5C-1: City Health Officer Defined
4-5C-2: Authority To Abate
4-5C-3: Nature And Service Of Order
4-5C-4: Abatement If Order Not Complied With; Collection Of Costs
4-5C-1: CITY HEALTH OFFICER DEFINED:
The term "city health officer", as used in this article, includes the director
and sanitarians of the city-county health unit. (2010 Code § 15-14)
4-5C-2: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011, the city
health officer or his designee shall have the authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises within the corporate limits of the city to
remove from such premises, at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of
sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might
contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely
affecting the public health, within twenty four (24) hours, or within such
other time as may be reasonable; all such conditions being hereby declared to
constitute public health nuisances. (2010 Code § 15-11; amd. 2012 Code)
4-5C-3: NATURE AND SERVICE OF ORDER:
Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the owner or
occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the city health
officer or by a police officer, or a copy may be left at or sent by certified
mail with return receipt requested to the last usual place of abode of such
owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises is
unoccupied and the residence of such owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is
without the state, such order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the
premises, or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a
general circulation within the city. (2010 Code § 15-12)
4-5C-4: ABATEMENT IF ORDER NOT COMPLIED WITH; COLLECTION OF COSTS:
If the order is not complied with, the city health officer or his designee may
cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the cost of removing and
abating the nuisance shall be certified to the city clerk and added to the city
utility bill of such owner or occupant, if he is a user of city utility
services. The cost shall be treated as a part of the utility bill to which it
is added and, if not paid, shall be treated the same as a delinquency in
payment, on the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of
any city utility services, the cost, after certification to the city clerk, may
be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the city may be
collected. (2010 Code § 15-13)
ARTICLE D. WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
4-5D-1: Legislative Intent
4-5D-2: Definitions
4-5D-3: Notice To Abate
4-5D-4: Notice Procedure
4-5D-5: Hearing By City Commission
4-5D-6: Work To Be Done And Performed
4-5D-7: Cost To Be Determined; Failure To Pay Costs
4-5D-8: Summary Abatement
4-5D-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
It is hereby declared the legislative intent of the city commission to conform
hereby to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111. (2010 Code §
15-18)
4-5D-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   OWNER: The owner or owners of record as shown by the most current tax rolls
of the county treasurer.
   TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form, which is
uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS: Include, but are not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac, and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
   A.   Exceed twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden, unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community, or a hazard to
traffic, or create a fire hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the
property or otherwise interfere with the mowing of said weeds;
   B.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
   C.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
   D.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odor;
   E.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
   F.   Is dead or diseased. (2010 Code § 15-19)
4-5D-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
The city may cause property within the municipal limits to be cleaned of trash,
and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following
procedure:
A.   Notice Requirements: At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the
owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year tax
rolls in the Payne County treasurer's office before the city holds a hearing or
takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property
of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate,
and the notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within
ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the city and
a notice of lien shall be filed with the Payne County clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the municipality. At the time of mailing
of notice to the property owner, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be
located within ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the city, notice may
be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as
defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-102, one time, not less than ten (10)
days prior to any hearing or action by the city. If the city anticipates
summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of section
4-5D-8 of this article, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication,
shall state that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and after the date
of this notice may be summarily abated by the city; and that the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed
on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the
property owner.
B.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property
zoned and used for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the
jurisdiction of the Oklahoma corporation commission. However, the city may
cause the removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for
agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of this section, but only if
such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in or within ten
(10) yards of the public right of way at intersections. (2010 Code § 15-20)
4-5D-4: NOTICE PROCEDURE:
A.   Requirements: The notice provided for in section
4-5D-3 of this article shall state that within ten (10) days, the owner shall
clean the property of trash, or cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property,
as appropriate, and shall further state that the owner of such property shall
have the right within such ten (10) day period to request in writing a hearing
before the city under the provisions of section
4-5D-5 of this article. The notice shall further state that should the owner
not request a hearing or not perform the cleaning and mowing within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the city and a notice
of lien filed with the county clerk for the costs due and owing the city. The
owner may give written consent authorizing the city to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his right to a hearing
B.   Enforcement; Appeal: The city shall designate the city manager and/or the
chief of police to carry out the duties of the city commission under sections
4-5D-3 through
4-5D-8 of this article. Any property owner shall have the right of appeal to
the city commission from any order of the city manager or the chief of police.
Any such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the city
clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered. (2010
Code § 15-21)
4-5D-5: HEARING BY CITY COMMISSION:
Unless written consent to abatement has been received from the property owner,
or the owner has caused said weeds to be abated, the city commission shall meet
on the day and time specified for hearing in the notice, which shall be at
least ten (10) calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice. The owner
shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and
other evidence and to cross examine witnesses. The city commission shall make
its determination at the conclusion of the hearing. If the city commission
determines that the accumulation of trash or weeds has caused the owner's
property to become detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the public,
or a traffic hazard or fire hazard, it shall order that the trash or weeds be
abated. (2010 Code § 15-22)
4-5D-6: WORK TO BE DONE AND PERFORMED:
Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or
hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of such
conditions or upon consent of the owner, the city may enter property for the
removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, in performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the city. The abatement may be done by the
city directly or may be let by contract to the lowest and best bidder for a
period not to exceed one year. Immediately following the cleaning and mowing of
the property, the city clerk shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk,
describing the property, the work performed and stating that the city claims a
lien on said property. (2010 Code § 15-23)
4-5D-7: COST TO BE DETERMINED; FAILURE TO PAY COSTS:
A.   The city shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and mowing, and
such other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including the
cost of notice of mailing, and the city clerk shall forward by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office, a statement of such actual cost and demanding
payment; providing, that if the cleaning and mowing is done on a private
contract basis it shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder. If cleaning
and mowing is done by the city, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed
the actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required for said
cleaning and mowing.
B.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the Payne County treasurer and the same shall be
levied on the property and collected by the county treasurer as other taxes
authorized by law. Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost
is certified to the county treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall continue until the
cost shall be fully paid. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of Payne County. At any
time prior to the collection as provided in this subsection, the city may
pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon, including an action in personam against the property owner, and an
action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest,
if severed from the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall
not be subject to any tax judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon
receiving payment, if any, the city clerk shall forward to the Payne County
treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien. (2010
Code § 15-24)
4-5D-8: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If a notice is given by the city to a property owner ordering the property
within the municipal limits of the city to be cleaned of trash, and weeds or
grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided for in
section
4-5D-3 of this article, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed
or grass growth on the property occurring within a six (6) month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the
city shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten
(10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be
as provided for in section
4-5D-4 of this article. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided for in section
4-5D-7 of this article. This section shall not apply if the records of the
Payne County clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was
given pursuant to section
4-5D-4 of this article. (2010 Code § 15-25)
ARTICLE E. JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-5E-1: Definitions
4-5E-2: Storing, Parking Or Leaving Dismantled Or Other Such Vehicles
Prohibited
4-5E-3: Notice To Remove
4-5E-4: Notice Procedure
4-5E-5: Content Of Notice
4-5E-6: Responsibility For Removal
4-5E-7: Request For Hearing
4-5E-8: Procedure For Hearing
4-5E-9: Removal Of Motor Vehicle From Property
4-5E-10: Disposition Of Vehicle
4-5E-11: Contents Of Public Sale Notice
4-5E-12: Public Sale
4-5E-13: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
4-5E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any licensed motor vehicle which is fifteen (15)
years of age or older; provided, however, that the owner of said vehicle must
have plans to restore the vehicle to its original condition and must have made
reasonable progress within the preceding twelve (12) months toward completion
of such restoration.
   CITY: Refers to the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, or his
authorized representative.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle, the condition of which is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, carts, campers and
trailers.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLICE CHIEF: The police chief of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, or his
authorized representative.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property located within the city of Perkins which
is privately owned and which is not included within the definition of public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or
facility. (2010 Code § 15-39)
4-5E-2: STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH VEHICLES
PROHIBITED:
A.   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, junked or partially dismantled condition, whether
attended or not, upon any private property within the city for a period in
excess of ten (10) days; provided, however, that the provisions of this article
shall not apply to antique motor vehicles.
B.   This section shall not apply to any vehicle in an enclosed building, or
when any such vehicle has been placed in an appropriate storage place,
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner, or is located in an area
that is properly fenced, screened, or is such that it is out of public view and
such vehicle cannot be viewed or seen from any public street or public
property.
C.   This section shall not apply to those vehicles where reasonable and actual
progress is being made toward restoration or repair of such motor vehicle.
D.   The first day of the ten (10) day period referred to in subsection A of
this section shall be recorded by an officer or employee of the city in a log
or permanent record to be maintained by the police department. Such log or
record book shall be maintained at the police department and shall be
considered to be an open record pursuant to the statutes of the state. (2010
Code § 15-40)
4-5E-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
When it comes to the attention of the police chief that any "motor vehicle", as
defined by this article, is in violation of any of the provisions of this
article, then a notice in writing shall be served on the occupant of the land
where the vehicle exists, or in case there is no such occupant, then upon the
owner of the property or his agent, notifying them of the violation of this
article and requesting the removal of the vehicle in the time specified in this
article. (2010 Code § 15-41)
4-5E-4: NOTICE PROCEDURE:
The police chief shall give notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the
private property where the vehicle is located at least ten (10) days before the
time for compliance. It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of the
same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private property on which the
vehicle is located and duplicate copies are sent by registered mail to the
owner or occupant of the private property at his last known address. (2010 Code
§ 15-43; amd. 2012 Code)
4-5E-5: CONTENT OF NOTICE:
The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time specified in
this article and the notice shall advise that, upon failure to comply with the
notice to remove, the city, or its designee, shall undertake such removal with
the cost of removal to be levied against the owner or occupant of the property.
(2010 Code § 15-44)
4-5E-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
The owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either
or all of them, shall be responsible for the vehicle's removal. In the event of
removal and disposition by the city, the owner of the private property where
the same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred; provided,
however, that should the occupant of the property be the owner of said vehicle,
then the occupant shall be liable for any expenses incurred. (2010 Code § 15-
42)
4-5E-7: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
The person or persons to whom notice is directed, or their duly authorized
agents, may file a written request for hearing before the city commission, or
its designee, within the ten (10) day period of compliance prescribed in this
article for the purpose of presenting evidence that such vehicle is not a "junk
motor vehicle" pursuant to the definition and provisions of this article. (2010
Code § 15-45)
4-5E-8: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING:
The hearing shall be held as soon as is practical and possible after the filing
of the request and the persons to whom the notices are directed shall be
advised of the time and place of said hearing at least five (5) days in advance
thereof. At any such hearing, the city and the persons to whom the notices have
been directed may introduce such witnesses and evidence as either party deems
necessary. (2010 Code § 15-46)
4-5E-9: REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY:
If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within the ten
(10) day period of compliance, or in the event that a notice requesting a
hearing is timely filed, and a hearing is had, and the existence of the
violation is affirmed by the city commission, or its designee, the owner of
such vehicle shall have ten (10) days from the date of such hearing to cause
the removal of such vehicle and, in the event the vehicle is not removed within
such time periods, then and in that event the chief of police, or his designee,
shall have the right to take possession of the vehicle and remove it from the
premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this article. (2010 Code
§ 15-47)
4-5E-10: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE:
A.   Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this article, the city
shall, after ten (10) days, cause it to be appraised. If the vehicle is
appraised at one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less, the chief of police shall
execute an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including the
license plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the
vehicle. The chief of police, after complying with the above, may summarily
dispose of the vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is
appraised at over one hundred dollars ($100.00), the chief of police shall give
notice of public sale not less than ten (10) days before the date of proposed
sale.
B.   For purposes of the appraisal herein, it shall be sufficient that the
chief of police, or his designee, shall obtain one written appraisal from a
person, firm or other entity properly licensed to sell used motor vehicles in
the state. (2010 Code § 15-48)
4-5E-11: CONTENTS OF PUBLIC SALE NOTICE:
The notice of sale shall state:
A.   The sale is of abandoned property in the possession of the city;
B.   A description of the vehicle, including make, model, license number, and
any other information which will accurately identify the vehicle;
C.   The terms of the sale: and
D.   The date, time and place of the sale. (2010 Code § 15-49)
4-5E-12: PUBLIC SALE:
The vehicle shall be sold to the highest and best bidder. At the time of
payment of the purchase price, the chief of police shall execute a certificate
of sale in duplicate, the original of which is to be given to the purchaser and
the copy thereof to be filed with the city clerk. Should the sale for any
reason be invalid, the city liability shall be limited to the return of the
purchase price. The revenues derived from any sale provided for herein shall be
deposited to the general fund. (2010 Code § 15-50)
4-5E-13: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this article may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the city clerk of
such sum as he may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable expense of
removal and any preliminary sale advertising expenses, not to exceed twenty
dollars ($20.00), plus two dollars ($2.00) per day for storage for each vehicle
redeemed. (2010 Code § 15-51)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Created; Chief Of Police
5-1-2: General Duties
5-1-3: Educational Requirements
5-1-4: Police Reserve
5-1-5: Appointment Of Reserve Officers
5-1-6: Status Of Police Reserve Member
5-1-7: Compensation; Uniforms
5-1-1: CREATED; CHIEF OF POLICE:
A.   There shall be a police department, the head of which shall be the chief
of police, or police chief, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
term, and removable by the city manager. The chief of police is an officer of
the city, and has supervision and control of the police department. All police
officers are officers of the city. The department shall be responsible for all
criminal and traffic investigations, criminal and traffic law enforcement,
handling routine complaints, general patrol, traffic direction and parking
control, receiving, processing and maintaining all criminal and traffic records
and personnel records, analyzing criminal and traffic records; police training;
budget; correspondence; vehicle and building maintenance; operating chemical
testing equipment; and providing other services essential to efficient
operations.
B.   In accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-111, the police chief
shall have authority to appoint one or more police officers, subject to
confirmation by the city manager. Police officers may be removed either by the
police chief or by the city manager.
C.   When used in this code or in other ordinances of the city, the words
"police chief" or "chief of police" shall mean the city marshal and the word
"police officer" shall mean city marshal or deputy marshal.
D.   The police chief shall have supervision and control of the police
department, subject to the supervision and control of the city manager. (2010
Code § 1-29)
5-1-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
A.   The police chief is a police officer and shall have the powers and
liabilities of sheriffs in executing orders of the city commission and
enforcing the ordinances of the city, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 34-102. (2010 Code § 1-30; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   It shall be the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on
view or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the
city; to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to
their knowledge and generally to keep the peace, to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. (2010 Code § 1-30)
5-1-3: EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
A.   No person shall receive a permanent appointment as a police officer in the
city until:
   1.   He has undergone evaluation similar to the Minnesota multi-phasic
personality inventory or its equivalent (as determined by the council on law
enforcement education and training); and
   2.   He has been awarded a certificate, attesting to his satisfactory
completion of a basic police course of accredited instruction from the council
on law enforcement education and training as required by 70 Oklahoma Statutes
section 3311 or a curriculum or course of study approved by the council on law
enforcement education and training.
B.   Every person who is not the holder of such certificate, and is duly
appointed as a police officer, shall be appointed to such position on a
temporary basis only and shall, within one year from the date of appointment,
qualify as required in subsection A of this section, or forfeit such position.
Appointed chiefs of police shall meet the requirements of subsection A of this
section within the first twelve (12) months after assuming the duties of the
office to which they are appointed.
C.   Every person who is employed as a permanent police officer prior to July
1, 1968, or is retired under 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 50-114, shall enjoy
privilege of certification as afforded by this section. (2010 Code § 1-31)
5-1-4: POLICE RESERVE:
A.   Established: A police reserve is hereby established to augment the regular
police department in the event of an emergency or disaster, or at other times
as deemed necessary or directed by the chief of police.
B.   Policies, Rules And Regulations: All members of the police reserve will be
subject to the policies, rules and regulations established for the police
reserve by the city commission.
C.   Additional Rules And Regulations: The city commission may make and publish
such additional rules and regulations consistent with this chapter and as may
be necessary for its implementation. (2010 Code § 1-32)
5-1-5: APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE OFFICERS:
A.   Appointment; Background Inquiry: Police reserve officers shall be
appointed by the city manager and shall, prior to the appointment to the police
reserve, have a complete background inquiry of the applicant conducted by the
police department. The applicant shall be personally interviewed by the city
manager or his representative, and the applicant's photograph and fingerprints
shall be obtained.
B.   Interview; Physical Examination: Each applicant shall be interviewed as to
his ability to safely handle firearms and shall submit to a physical
examination at the applicant's expense to determine fitness to perform assigned
duties.
C.   Other Membership Prohibited; Exception: No person shall be eligible for
appointment to the police reserve organization who shall be a member of any
other law enforcement reserve force, except that any officer may hold a cross
deputization commission with the Payne County sheriff's office, whether it be
municipal, state or other reserve force, or who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of the state, or of any other state, or of the United States, or
an offense involving moral turpitude, nor shall any such person be eligible to
continue to serve as a member of the police reserve who has been convicted of a
felony under the laws of the state, or of any other state, or of the United
States, or any offense involving moral turpitude. It shall be the duty of the
chief of police to refuse such appointment to all persons under the age of
twenty one (21) and such other persons as he has reasonable cause to believe
are not qualified. (2010 Code § 1-33)
5-1-6: STATUS OF POLICE RESERVE MEMBER:
A.   Probation; Rights; Benefits: The duly appointed members of the police
reserve organization shall be on a probationary status for a minimum period of
one year from the date of their appointment, after which time the chief of
police may commission them as permanent reserve police officers. Members of the
police reserve shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager and upon
termination, for any reason, shall have no appeal rights and no access to the
review revisions of the personnel policy for the city, nor shall any police
reserve member be given any of the benefits or rights of the city personnel
policy.
B.   Compliance With Regulations: Police reserve members shall be required to
comply with all rules and regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma council on
law enforcement education and training, as provided for in 70 Oklahoma Statutes
section 3311, as amended. (2010 Code § 1-34)
5-1-7: COMPENSATION; UNIFORMS:
A.   Compensation: Police reserve members shall be compensated pursuant to
policies, rules and regulations established for the police reserve by the
police chief and city manager, and approved by the city commission.
B.   Uniforms; Weapons: Police reserve members will be furnished uniforms as
prescribed by the chief of police and shall wear uniforms and shall carry
weapons only when on duty assignments as designated by the chief of police.
(2010 Code § 1-35)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Created; Chief And Personnel; Appointment And Removal
5-2-2: Assistant Chief
5-2-3: Designated As Volunteer Department; Number Of Firefighters
5-2-4: Volunteer Firefighter Defined
5-2-5: Company Officers
5-2-6: Secretary-Treasurer
5-2-7: New Members
5-2-8: Bylaws
5-2-9: Chief To Supervise And Control
5-2-10: Duties Of Department
5-2-11: Regulations May Be Adopted
5-2-12: Investigation Of Arson; Entry Of Buildings
5-2-13: Rural Fire Prevention Program
5-2-14: False Alarm Fees
5-2-15: Records And Reports
5-2-16: Compensation
5-2-17: Chief To Have Charge At Fires
5-2-18: Right Of Way
5-2-1: CREATED; CHIEF AND PERSONNEL; APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
A.   Chief Appointment: The chief shall be appointed and removed by the city
manager. Appointment shall be from a nomination by the majority of fire
department members.
B.   Chief Head Of Department: The chief shall be at the head of the
department; subject to the laws of the state, ordinances of this city and the
rules and regulations herein adopted.
C.   Chief Responsible For Department: The chief shall be held responsible for
the general condition and efficient operation of the department, the training
of members, and the performance of all other duties imposed upon him.
D.   Inspection Of Water Sources: The chief may inspect or cause to be
inspected by members of the department, the fire hydrants and other sources of
water supply at least twice each year.
E.   Library Of Publications: The chief shall maintain a library or file of
publications on fire prevention and fire protection, and shall make use of it
to the best advantage of all members.
F.   Attendance At Fires: The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires
and direct the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
G.   Information To Public: The chief shall see that all citizens are kept
informed on fire hazards in the community and on the activities of the
department.
H.   Fire Investigation: The chief shall see that each fire is carefully
investigated to determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of
incendiarism, shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all
possible evidence for future use in the case. (2010 Code § 1-36)
5-2-2: ASSISTANT CHIEF:
A.   Appointment: The assistant chief shall be appointed by the chief and
confirmed by the city commission.
B.   Command Of Department: In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on
duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all
respect with the full power and responsibilities of the chief. (2010 Code § 1-
37)
5-2-3: DESIGNATED AS VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; NUMBER OF FIREFIGHTERS:
The fire department of the city is a volunteer fire department, which has in
its employ no more than three (3) full time salaried firefighters, and it shall
be compromised of not less than twelve (12) and no more than twenty (20)
volunteer firefighters. (2010 Code § 1-38)
5-2-4: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "volunteer firefighter" is one who is
enrolled as a member of the fire department and he serves in such capacity
without receiving a regular salary from the city. (2010 Code § 1-39)
5-2-5: COMPANY OFFICERS:
The company officers shall be selected upon their ability to meet the following
requirements:
A.   Their knowledge of firefighting;
B.   Their ability to lead members;
C.   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2010 Code § 1-40)
5-2-6: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
One member elected by the fire department may be secretary- treasurer. His/her
duties shall consist of the following:
A.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
B.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting;
C.   Collecting any money due to the department by the members. (2010 Code § 1-
41)
5-2-7: NEW MEMBERS:
A.   Appointment; Probation: All members of the volunteer fire department shall
be appointed by the city manager, who shall make said appointment only upon
receiving a recommendation of a majority of the members of the fire department.
All new members of the volunteer fire department shall be on probation for one
year from the date of their appointment.
B.   Departmental Approval Required: New volunteer members, upon completion of
their probation period, must be approved by the majority of the fire
department.
C.   Number Conform To State Law: The number of volunteer firefighters shall
conform to state law. (2010 Code § 1-42)
5-2-8: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include:
A.   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies. (2010 Code § 1-43)
B.   Volunteer firefighters are required to be present at all regular meetings,
call meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters. (2010
Code § 1-43; amd. 2012 Code)
C.   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two (2) unexcused absences in succession
or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months may be dropped
from the fire department rolls.
E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the city for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the chief.
F.   Any volunteer firefighter not attending training classes provided for him
may be dropped.
G.   Any volunteer member of the fire department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
   1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
   2.   Any act of insubordination;
   3.   Neglect of duty;
   4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire department;
   5.   Conviction of a felony. (2010 Code § 1-43)
5-2-9: CHIEF TO SUPERVISE AND CONTROL:
The chief of the fire department shall have supervision and control of the fire
department, subject to the supervision and control of the city manager. The
chief may assign duties to other members of the department. (2010 Code § 1-44)
5-2-10: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
A.   Generally: It shall be the duty of the fire department, among others, to
extinguish fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and to
administer first aid to persons injured in or about burning structures, or
elsewhere in case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless
otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire
prevention and safety of persons from fire in theaters, stores and other public
buildings.
B.   Reports To City Manager: The chief shall keep the city manager informed
regarding the fire department and its needs, and shall make such report as the
city manager shall require. (2010 Code § 1-45)
5-2-11: REGULATIONS MAY BE ADOPTED:
The city commission, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department, its organization and operation. The chief may
recommend such regulations and changes therein to the commission at any time.
(2010 Code § 1-46)
5-2-12: INVESTIGATION OF ARSON; ENTRY OF BUILDINGS:
A.   The chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
B.   The chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises
at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time,
any and all fire hazards that may be found. Any person so served with a notice
to abate fire hazard or hazards shall comply therewith and promptly notify the
chief. (2010 Code § 1-47)
5-2-13: RURAL FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM:
A.   Authority To Contract; Definitions:
   1.   The city is hereby authorized and empowered, through the Perkins
volunteer fire department, to enter into a contract with the owner or occupant
of any property outside the corporate limits of the city for purposes of
providing fire prevention and fire eradication services.
   2.   For the purposes of this section:
   FIRE RUN: A response to a fire by the Perkins fire department requiring the
use of the department's resources.
   PARTICIPANT: A party contracting with the city for fire prevention and fire
eradication services outside the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 391, 3-13-
2012)
B.   Answering Outside Calls; Exception: When there is imminent peril and
danger to life and/or property, the fire department may answer all outside fire
calls where there is in effect a current fire contract as provided for in
subsection A of this section, or within the department's rural fire district.
Otherwise, there exists no duty to answer such calls unless specifically
requested by the property owner and unless, in the opinion of the fire chief,
it is not inexpedient to do so on account of another fire in the city, broken
apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other physical condition. (2010
Code § 1-48.1)
C.   Enrollment Fee; Contract Charges:
   1.   The annual contract rate for residential and agricultural customers
shall be as set by resolution of the city commission for each nonattached
property. For each fire run, the city shall charge the participant the fees set
forth in the fire department fee schedule for apparatus and personnel, the cost
of materials used, the cost of any damages incurred, and any other fees as
might be assessed pursuant to the participant's contract. The participant shall
be subject to a minimum charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and a maximum
charge of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per fire run, to be
paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the fire run. (Ord. 391, 3-13-2012;
amd. 2012 Code)
   2.   All commercial properties, including, but not limited to, oil
production, manufacturing and schools are eligible to contract under the rural
fire protection program. The annual contract rate for commercial customers
shall be as set by resolution of the city commission for each property. (Ord.
405, 7-9-2013)
D.   Contract Exclusions:
   1.   Fire runs for controlled burn on properties of origin during red flag
alerts and county or state instituted burn bans;
   2.   Fire runs to properties of origin for prescribed burns by third party
entities. (Ord. 391, 3-13-2012)
E.   Term Of Contract: The terms of any contract entered into as a result of
this section shall be for one year, commencing on July 1 and expiring on June
30 of each year; provided, that any new contracts entered into after April 1 of
a given year shall be extended until June 30 of the following year. If payment
of the fee as set forth in subsection C of this section is not paid by July 15
of each year, then the contract shall be null and void. (2010 Code § 1-48.4)
F.   Fees Without Contract And Payment:
   1.   Except as otherwise provided by subsection C of this section, the city
shall charge a property owner, for each fire run, the fees set forth in the
fire department fee schedule for apparatus and personnel, the cost of materials
used and the cost of any damages incurred. There shall be a minimum charge of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per fire run with no set maximum. Such charges
shall not apply to a walk through or inspection where there is no performance
of duty.
   2.   All charges provided for in this section shall be paid within thirty
(30) days of the date of the fire run. (Ord. 391, 3-13-2012)
G.   Auto Fires And Extrication Fees: No minimum fee shall apply to auto fires.
Auto extrication fees shall be charged, assessed and collected in such amounts
as set by the city commission by motion or resolution. "Auto extrication" is
defined as those incidents where specialized tools are used to remove a trapped
person from a motor vehicle accident. (Ord. 392, 4-10-2012)
H.   Additional Charges: Additional fees will apply for any additional
equipment or materials needed for vehicle fires or extrication; such as, a
second truck needed for transporting and use of additional personnel, material
or other resources, excluding a command unit. The fees for additional trucks
shall be charged at a rate established by resolution of the city commission.
Consumable items such as foam and absorbent materials shall be charged at a
rate established by resolution of the city commission of the cost of the
material. If fire extinguishers are used, there will be a flat rate established
by resolution of the city commission. (Ord. 364, 2-9-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
5-2-14: FALSE ALARM FEES:
A fee shall be charged for repetitious false alarm calls due to faulty smoke/
fire detection systems, or repeated calls for service. These fees shall apply
within a twelve (12) month period, beginning with the date of the first false
alarm when no apparent fire, smoke or other reason for the response is evident.
The following schedule will apply to false alarm calls within the city limits
or for rural fire subscribers located within the rural fire district. A fee
will not be assessed for the first two (2) false alarms. A fee as established
by resolution of the city commission shall be assessed for each third and
fourth false alarm, and all subsequent false alarm calls will be charged a fee
as established by resolution of the city commission for each call. The fee for
false alarm calls for nonsubscription properties in the rural fire district
shall be set by resolution of the city commission for the second and all
subsequent false alarms. (Ord. 364, 2-9-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
5-2-15: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
equipment, personnel and other information about the work of the department,
and shall make such reports as the city commission may require. (2010 Code § 1-
49)
5-2-16: COMPENSATION:
A.   Members of the volunteer fire department shall be compensated as follows:
 
Captain               $24.00
Volunteer Firefighter $20.00
 
B.   As reimbursement for expenses incurred for each fire and rescue run, they
actually attend. All medical runs will be reimbursed at $8.00 for up to the
first three members that arrive.
C.   Further the following incentives shall be established, and shall be paid
on the first payroll in December each year:
 
$100 for each volunteer member who attends 10% of the calls and 25% of the
trainings each year.
$250 for the most calls made by a volunteer member
$250 for highest attendance to training days, workdays, and meetings, combined,
by a volunteer member
$100 for each officer that designs and leads a volunteer training
$200 most in-house hours spent
 
D.   In the event of a tie in any of the above-named incentives, the incentive
shall be split between the highest ranked volunteer firefighters.
E.   The chief shall be responsible for reporting to the city clerk, at least
quarterly, the number of volunteer fire runs made that quarter and the names of
the volunteer firefighters who were present and attended each such fire run.
F.   The chief shall also be responsible for reporting to the city clerk, by
November 15 of each year, the results of the years' incentives, including the
data used to name the volunteer firefighters who are being awarded incentives.
G.   The City Clerk shall prepare statements and make payment based upon the
report of fire runs and incentive list made by the chief. The city clerk shall
be responsible for completion of any state and/or federal tax that may be
necessary. (2010 Code § 1-49; amd. Ord. 486, 7-13-2021)
5-2-17: CHIEF TO HAVE CHARGE AT FIRES:
The chief of the fire department, or the person acting in his absence, shall
have full power, control and command over all persons whomsoever present at
fires; and he shall direct the use of all fire apparatus and equipment; and
command all firefighters in the discharge of their duties. He shall take such
measures as may be necessary in the prevention and protection of property and
the extinguishing of fires. (2010 Code § 1-50)
5-2-18: RIGHT OF WAY:
All motor equipment and all personal cars of department members shall have
right of way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. (2010 Code §
1-51)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose; Duty
5-3-2: Emergency Management Department Established
5-3-3: Director Powers And Duties
5-3-4: Duties Of Director During Emergencies
5-3-5: Enforcement Of Laws And Ordinances
5-3-6: Compensation
5-3-1: PURPOSE; DUTY:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management organization
for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of the
emergency management organization shall be the protection of the lives and
health of the citizens of the city and of property and property rights, both
private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident
thereto. (2010 Code § 1-52; amd. 2012 Code)
5-3-2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city a department of emergency management, which shall consist of a director of
emergency management, who shall be appointed by the city manager, and shall be
confirmed by the city commission, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
city manager. (2010 Code § 1-53; amd. 2012 Code)
5-3-3: DIRECTOR POWERS AND DUTIES:
The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of the
department of emergency management, and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management program of the city. It is the duty of the director of
emergency management, as soon as practicable after his appointment, to perfect
an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter, and he
shall have all the necessary power and authority to form committees or other
bodies and to appoint and designate the chairperson and chief officer of such
bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall have such
further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all emergency management
agencies of governmental units, including the state and the federal government.
(Ord. 429, 2-10-2015)
5-3-4: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR DURING EMERGENCIES:
In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from natural
causes, the director of emergency management shall have the power and authority
to enforce all rules and regulations relating to emergency management and, if
necessary, take control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel,
food, clothing, medicine and public utilities, for the purpose of protecting
the civilian population. He shall cooperate in every way with the activities of
other governmental agencies or emergency management organizations; and if
required by the mayor, shall have control over any and all funds allocated from
any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city.
(2010 Code § 1-55; amd. 2012 Code)
5-3-5: ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The director of emergency management and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of
emergency, and shall, at such time, have the further power to make arrests for
violation of such laws or ordinances. (2010 Code § 1-56; amd. 2012 Code)
5-3-6: COMPENSATION:
All volunteers of the emergency management organization created hereunder shall
serve without compensation. (Ord. 429, 2-10-2015)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Defined
5-4-2: Limitation Of Purchase, Possession Or Use Of Fireworks
5-4-3: Public Displays; Applicability; Permit
5-4-4: Dates Sale And Purchase Permitted
5-4-5: Qualifications Of Applicant And Licensee
5-4-6: Application For Sales License
5-4-7: Fee For License; Separate License Required
5-4-8: Display Of License
5-4-9: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINED:
The term "fireworks" means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, roman candles, dago bombs, sparklers or other fireworks or like
construction, and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound,
or any tablets or other devices containing any explosive substance, except that
the term "fireworks" shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or
other devices in which paper caps manufactured in accordance with the United
States Interstate Commerce Commission regulations for packing and shipping of
toy paper caps are used and toy pistol caps manufactured as provided therein,
the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as applying to the manufacture, storage, sale or use
of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other classes of
public or private transportation, or apply to the military or naval forces of
the United States or of this State, or to peace officers, or to prohibiting the
sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic events.
(2010 Code § 7-11)
5-4-2: LIMITATION OF PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR USE OF FIREWORKS:
A.   Hours Permitted: The use or discharge of fireworks within the corporate
limits of the City is hereby prohibited, except between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 4 of each year,
except as further provided in section
5-4-4 of this chapter.
B.   Distance To Specific Facilities; State Imposed Burn Ban: The use of
fireworks within the corporate limits of the City is hereby prohibited within
three hundred feet (300') of any school, church, public building, nursing home,
medical facility, service station, convenience store or any facility selling
and dispensing petroleum products, and from within three hundred feet (300') of
any commercial business and at any location within the corporate limits of the
City during a State imposed burn ban.
C.   Bottle Rockets Prohibited: The use of pop bottle rockets within the
corporate limits of the City is expressly prohibited at all times. (Ord. 478,
6-11-2019)
5-4-3: PUBLIC DISPLAYS; APPLICABILITY; PERMIT:
A.   Applicability: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to
the purchase, sale, possession or use of fireworks for public display by
holders of a permit for the public display, to be conducted in accordance with
the rules and regulations herein specified.
B.   Permit Required: Public displays may be performed only under competent
supervision and after the persons or organizations making such displays shall
first apply for and receive a written permit from the City Commission.
C.   Application For Permit: Such application shall be made at least ten (10)
days in advance of the proposed display, and shall show the location, who is to
shoot the show and the name of the display distributor who is to furnish the
merchandise, and shall bear the signed approval of the Chief of Police and the
Fire Chief. (2010 Code § 7-13)
5-4-4: DATES SALE AND PURCHASE PERMITTED:
The sale and purchase of fireworks is permitted within the city from June 15
through July 6. (2010 Code § 7-14)
5-4-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT AND LICENSEE:
No licensee, applicant or owner shall have been convicted of a felony or of
violating any of the firearm laws of the United States or the state, or any
other state, within two (2) years immediately preceding the date of
application. (2010 Code § 7-15)
5-4-6: APPLICATION FOR SALES LICENSE:
A.   Requirements: An applicant for a fireworks sales license shall deposit the
required fee with the city clerk and submit an application on the form
provided, containing the following information:
   1.   The names of all persons interested in the business, together with
their addresses and, if a corporation, the name of the managing officer.
   2.   The location of the proposed business.
   3.   The date and number of the permits from the Oklahoma tax commission if
required by law.
   4.   Any and all other information as may be requested by the city clerk.
B.   False Information Grounds For Denial: Any person submitting false
information in the application for a license shall be guilty of an offense and
such an act shall be grounds for denial of the application. (2010 Code § 7-16)
5-4-7: FEE FOR LICENSE; SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
A.   Annual Fee: The annual license fee for a fireworks sales license under
this chapter shall be as established by resolution of the city commission, said
sum having been determined by the city commission to be consistent with the
expense of the inspecting and policing establishments which sell fireworks.
(2010 Code § 7-17; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Separate License: Separate licenses must be obtained for each branch or
separate establishment operated and selling fireworks, and each license shall
authorize the operation of an establishment for the sale of fireworks only at
the location described in the license. (2010 Code § 7-17)
5-4-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every and all establishments engaged in the sale of fireworks shall place and
exhibit their license at all times in a conspicuous place on the premises.
(2010 Code § 7-18)
5-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 7-19; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL OFFENSES AND PENALTY
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Attempted Offense
5-5A-2: Aiding In An Offense
5-5A-3: Perjury Prohibited
5-5A-4: Deceiving Witnesses Prohibited
5-5A-5: Penalty
5-5A-1: ATTEMPTED OFFENSE:
A person is guilty of an attempt to commit an offense against the ordinances of
the city if acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, he shall purposely engage in conduct which would
constitute the crime if the intended circumstances were as he believes them to
be; or, when causing a particular result in an element of the crime, he does
anything with the purpose of causing, or with the belief that will cause such
result without further conduct on his part. (2010 Code § 16-2)
5-5A-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling, aiding or abetting in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels, aids or abets another in the commission of such is guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2010 Code
§ 16-3)
5-5A-3: PERJURY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful within the city for any person, who after having taken an
oath that he will testify, declare, depose or certify truly before any
competent tribunal, officer or person, in any of the cases in which an oath may
by law be administered, wilfully or contrary to such oath, to state any
material matter which he knows to be false. (2010 Code § 16-46)
5-5A-4: DECEIVING WITNESSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful within the city for any person to practice any fraud or
deceit, or knowingly to make or exhibit any false statement, representation or
token of writing to any witness or person about to be called as a witness, upon
any trial, proceeding, inquiry or investigation whatsoever, proceeding by
authority by law, when such practice shall be with the intent to affect the
testimony of such witness. (2010 Code § 16-47)
5-5A-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be
deemed a separate offense. (2010 Code § 16-48; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST DECENCY, MORALITY AND PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Betting, Playing Prohibited Game
5-5B-2: Slot Machines Prohibited
5-5B-3: Obtaining Property By Trick Or Deception
5-5B-4: False Or Bogus Checks
5-5B-5: Peeping Tom
5-5B-6: Loitering And Sleeping On Streets, Public Buildings
5-5B-7: Obscenity
5-5B-8: Outraging Public Decency
5-5B-9: Drug Paraphernalia; Possession Of Controlled Dangerous Substance
5-5B-10: Transportation Of Alcoholic Beverages
5-5B-11: Loitering Where Intoxicating Liquor Is Sold Contrary To Law
5-5B-12: Children Loitering In Or Near Place Where Alcoholic Beverages Are Sold
5-5B-13: Maintaining Place Where Intoxicating Liquor Is Sold Contrary To Law
5-5B-14: Drunkenness And Drinking In Public Place
5-5B-15: Smelling, Inhaling Of Glue Or Other Substances
5-5B-1: BETTING, PLAYING PROHIBITED GAME:
A.   Any person who bets or plays at any games prohibited by 21 Oklahoma
Statutes section 941, or who shall bet or play at any games whatsoever for
money, property, checks, credits or other representatives of value with cards,
dice or any other device which may be adopted to or used in playing any game of
chance, or in which chance is a material element, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. It is further provided that nothing contained herein shall be
interpreted nor enforced in conflict with the provision of 21 Oklahoma Statutes
section 942.
B.   It is unlawful for any person to loiter about in the immediate vicinity
where a person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a
slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (2010 Code § 16-4)
5-5B-2: SLOT MACHINES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association of individuals
to set up, operate, conduct or to permit to be set up, operated or conducted in
or about his or their places of business, whether as owner, employee or agent,
any slot machine for the purpose of having or allowing the same to be placed by
others for money, property, checks, credits or other representative of value,
within the limits of the City. For purposes of this article, the definition of
"slot machine" shall be defined in accordance with the definition of slot
machine found in 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 944. (2010 Code § 16-5)
5-5B-3: OBTAINING PROPERTY BY TRICK OR DECEPTION:
It shall be unlawful within the City limits for any person, firm, corporation
or association, with intent to cheat or defraud, to obtain or attempt to obtain
from any person, firm, corporation or association, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
trick or deception or false or fraudulent representation of statement or
pretense, or by any other means or instruments or device commonly called the
"confidence game", or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin; provided, that nothing contained herein shall be interpreted in
conflict with 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1541.1. (2010 Code § 16-6)
5-5B-4: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person with intent to cheat and defraud to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person any money, property or valuable thing of the
value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any false or bogus check,
or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The
term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or orders given for money or
property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to
pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. (2010 Code § 16-7)
5-5B-5: PEEPING TOM:
It is unlawful for any person to hide, wait or otherwise loiter in the vicinity
of any private dwelling house, apartment building or any other place of
residence, with the unlawful and wilful intent to watch, gaze or look at the
occupants there in a clandestine manner within the limits of the City. (2010
Code § 16-8)
5-5B-6: LOITERING AND SLEEPING ON STREETS, PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
A.   It is unlawful for any person without lawful reason, between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and sunrise, to loiter or wander aimlessly within the
City on the streets, in other public places, or on property of another; or
during such time to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any
property of another without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place.
B.   It is unlawful for a person to loiter in or about any public building or
in or about a depot of a public carrier. (2010 Code § 16-9)
5-5B-7: OBSCENITY:
It shall be unlawful within the City limits for any person to knowingly buy,
sell, barter, traffic in or cause to be delivered or transported within the
City any picture, moving picture, series of pictures, drawing, diagram or
photograph of any person or animal, or character thereof, in an act or acts of
sexual intercourse or unnatural copulation; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall be intended to prohibit the use of any of the above
mentioned items pursuant to medical prescription by duly authorized physicians
in the State or in recognized schools of medicine or veterinary science for
educational purposes, nor shall this section be enforced in conflict with the
provisions of 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1040.8. (2010 Code § 16-10; amd.
2012 Code)
5-5B-8: OUTRAGING PUBLIC DECENCY:
Every person who wilfully and wrongfully commits any act which grossly injures
the person or property of another, or which grossly disturbs the public peace
or health, or which openly outrages public decency, including, but not limited
to, urination in a public place, and is injurious to public morals, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2010 Code § 16-11; amd. 2012 Code)
5-5B-9: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA; POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE:
A.   No person shall use or possess drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled dangerous
substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act of
Oklahoma Statutes, except those persons holding an unrevoked license in the
professions of podiatry, dentistry, medicine, nursing, optometry, osteopathy,
veterinary medicine or pharmacy.
B.   No person shall deliver, possess or manufacture drug paraphernalia knowing
it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled dangerous substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Dangerous Substances Act of Oklahoma Statutes.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess
a controlled dangerous substance, as defined by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-
101, unless such substance was obtained directly, or pursuant to a valid
prescription or order from a medical practitioner, while acting in the course
of his or her professional practice.
D.   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a crime punishable by a
fine not exceeding four hundred dollars ($400.00), with no possibility of
incarceration. (Ord. 472, 12-11-2018)
5-5B-10: TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport or for any passenger
to possess in any vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any alcoholic
beverage, except in the original container which shall not have been opened and
the seal upon which shall not have been broken and from which the original cap
or cork shall not have been removed, unless the open container be in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
vehicle commonly known as an SUV or station wagon and panel truck, or any
outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person
in said vehicle while it is in motion. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
5-5B-11: LOITERING WHERE INTOXICATING LIQUOR IS SOLD CONTRARY TO LAW:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where intoxicating liquor
or beverage of any kind is bartered, sold, given away, or otherwise furnished
contrary to law. (2010 Code § 16-14)
5-5B-12: CHILDREN LOITERING IN OR NEAR PLACE WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE
SOLD:
A.   It is unlawful for any proprietor or operator of a place where alcoholic
beverages are used for consumption on the premises or any employee or agent of
such proprietor or operator to permit a person under twenty one (21) years of
age to loiter in or about such a place of business.
B.   If the premises of a holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages
contains a separate or enclosed bar area which has as its main purpose the sale
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, no person
under twenty one (21) years of age shall enter, attempt to enter, or remain in
said area. The provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit persons under
twenty one (21) years of age from entering or remaining in an area which has as
its main purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages, in which sales or serving of said beverages are incidental to the
main purpose, if the persons under twenty one (21) years of age are not sold or
served or do not consume alcoholic beverages anywhere on the premises; however,
the incidental service of food in the bar area shall not exempt persons under
twenty one (21) years of age from the provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 469,
9-11-2018)
5-5B-13: MAINTAINING PLACE WHERE INTOXICATING LIQUOR IS SOLD CONTRARY TO LAW:
It is unlawful for any person or any agent or employee thereof, to keep,
maintain, or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining, a place where intoxicating
liquor is sold, bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished in violation of
law or the ordinances of the City. (2010 Code § 16-16)
5-5B-14: DRUNKENNESS AND DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACE:
A.   It is unlawful for any person drunk, or in a state of intoxication, to
appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or other public
place; or for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in
any street, alley or other public place within the City.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or have in his control an
open container of alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public
street, highway, alley, thoroughfare, right-of-way, sidewalk, or upon, about or
within any public place or building within the City.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to have in his possession or control any alcoholic beverage or any intoxicating
alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
5-5B-15: SMELLING, INHALING OF GLUE OR OTHER SUBSTANCES:
A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person deliberately to smell,
inhale, breathe, drink or otherwise consume any compound, liquid, chemical,
narcotic, drug or any other substance containing any ketones, aldehydes,
organic acetones, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as gasoline, glue,
fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope or any other substance or
combination.
B.   Exemptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
pertain to:
   1.   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise consumes such
material or substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any licensed
doctor, physician, surgeon, dentist or podiatrist; or
   2.   The consumption of intoxicating liquor thereof containing solvents
releasing toxic vapors with the intent to cause conditions of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality,
dulling of the brain or nervous system, or any other changing, distorting or
disturbing of the eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance or coordination
of such person. (2010 Code § 16-62)
C.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2010 Code § 16-62; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
SECTION:
5-5C-1: Carrying Certain Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-2: Discharging Firearms, Air Rifles And Guns
5-5C-3: Transporting Loaded Firearm (Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-4: Improper Transportation Of Firearm; Fine And Court Costs
5-5C-5: Misdemeanor Pointing A Firearm (Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-6: Unlawful Assembly
5-5C-7: Disturbance By Loud Or Unusual Noise
5-5C-8: Disturbing Religious Worship
5-5C-9: Literature Or Language Ridiculing Deity
5-5C-10: Smoking In Certain Public Areas
5-5C-10.1: Tobacco And Vapor Use On City Owned And Controlled Property
5-5C-11: Obscene, Threatening, Harassing Telephone Calls
5-5C-12: Disturbing Public Assembly
5-5C-13: Display Of Insulting Signs
5-5C-14: Employer Inquiries Regarding Ownership Or Possession Of Firearm
5-5C-15: Use Of A Computer To Threaten Or Harass Another Person
5-5C-1: CARRYING CERTAIN WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-2: DISCHARGING FIREARMS, AIR RIFLES AND GUNS:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the city except when
doing so in line of official duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person or of property, when doing so in a properly
supervised rifle range or shooting match, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(2010 Code § 16-19)
5-5C-3: TRANSPORTING LOADED FIREARM:
(Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-4: IMPROPER TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARM; FINE AND COURT COSTS:
A.   Improper Transportation Of Firearm: Any person stopped pursuant to a
moving traffic violation who is transporting a loaded pistol in the motor
vehicle without a valid concealed handgun permit authorized by the Oklahoma
self-defense act or valid license from another state, whether the loaded
firearm is concealed or open in the vehicle, shall be issued a traffic citation
in the amount of seventy dollars ($70.00), plus court costs for transporting a
firearm improperly. In addition to the traffic citation provided in this
section, the person may also be arrested for any other violation of law. (Ord.
418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-5: MISDEMEANOR POINTING A FIREARM:
(Rep. by Ord. 418, 6-10-2014)
5-5C-6: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
It shall be unlawful and shall constitute an unlawful assembly within the city
for a person to assemble or act in concert with two (2) or more persons for the
purpose of engaging in conduct which would constitute the crime of riot, or to
remain at the scene of a riot after being instructed to disperse by law
enforcement authorities. For the purposes of this section, "riot" means that
crime defined under 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1311. (2010 Code § 16-20)
5-5C-7: DISTURBANCE BY LOUD OR UNUSUAL NOISE:
It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any person to
wilfully or maliciously disturb, either by night or day, the peace and quiet of
the city, or any neighborhood, family or person by loud or unusual noise or
music, or by abusive, violent, obscene or profane language, whether addressed
to the party so disturbed or some other person, or by threatening to kill, do
bodily harm or injury, destroy property, fight, or by quarreling or challenging
to fight, fighting or shooting off firearms, or brandishing firearms. (2010
Code § 16-21)
5-5C-8: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb any congregation or assembly of
persons meeting for religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or
improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any other
manner, either within the place of worship or within hearing distance thereof.
(2010 Code § 16-22)
5-5C-9: LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING DEITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to circulate any literature or use any
language within the corporate limits of the city that casts profane ridicule on
any deity or religion, said ridicule, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (2010 Code § 16-23)
5-5C-10: SMOKING IN CERTAIN PUBLIC AREAS:
A.   Prohibited In Public Place; Indoor Workplace Defined:
   1.   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and
dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is in
any indoor place used by or open to the public, public transportation, or any
indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by law.
   2.   As used in this section, "indoor workplace" means any indoor place of
employment or employment type service for or at the request of another
individual or individuals, or any public or private entity, whether part time
or full time, and whether for compensation or not. Such services shall include,
without limitation, any service performed by an owner, employee, independent
contractor, agent, partner, proprietor, manager, officer, director, apprentice,
trainee, associate, servant or volunteer. An "indoor workplace" includes work
areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees, and all
space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by
walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows,
stairways, or the like. The provisions of this section shall apply to such
indoor workplace at any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
B.   Municipal Property: As provided in Section
5-5C-10.1, no person is allowed to Smoke or use Tobacco Products and/or Vapor
Products on any Municipal Property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and
recreational areas.
C.   Entrances, exits: No smoking shall be allowed within twenty-five feet
(25') of the entrance or exit of any building specified in subsection B of this
section.
D.   Exceptions:
   1.   The restrictions provided in this section shall not apply to the
following:
      a.   Stand-alone bars or stand-alone taverns and cigar bars as defined by
the provisions of Title 63, Section 1-1522 of the Oklahoma Statues.
      b.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      c.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the guestrooms at a hotel or
other lodging establishment;
      d.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      e.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access. "Incidental public access"
means that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an
employee, present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. It
does not include businesses that depend on walk in customers for any part of
their business;
      f.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      g.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      h.   Workplaces within private residences, except that smoking shall not
be allowed inside any private residence that is used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation;
      i.   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to the
research or treatment;
      j.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to sections 501(c)(8), 501(e)(10) or 501(e)(19) of the internal
revenue code, 26 USC sections 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501 (c)(19), when such
facility is utilized exclusively by its members and their families and for the
conduct of post or organization nonprofit operations, except during an event or
activity which is open to the public; and
      k.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall
not be allowed within fifteen feet (15') of any exterior public doorway or any
air intake of a restaurant.
E.   Employee Smoking Rooms:
   1.   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so may elect to provide
smoking rooms where no work is performed, except for cleaning and maintenance
during the time the room is not in use for smoking, provided each smoking room
is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the outside in such a manner that
no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area. No exhaust from a
smoking room shall be located within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit
or air intake.
   2.   If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted in this section or
in a smoking room pursuant to this section, such smoking space must either
occupy the entire enclosed indoor space or, if it shares the enclosed space
with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking space shall be fully enclosed, exhausted
directly to the outside with no air from the smoking space circulated to any
nonsmoking area, and under negative air pressure so that no smoke can drift or
circulate into a nonsmoking area when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is
opened. Air from a smoking room shall not be exhausted within fifteen feet
(15') of any entrance, exit or air intake. Any employer may choose a more
restrictive smoking policy, including being totally smoke free.
F.   Signage Required:
   1.   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco use or
vapor use is prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign, at
least four inches by two inches (4" x 2") in size, at each entrance to the
building indicating that the place is smoke free and tobacco free.
   2.   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      a.   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      b.   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      c.   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of the
facility shall be responsible.
      d.   In municipally owned property, local government is responsible for
posting weather resistant signage of at least 15" by 15" in size with at least
1" lettering at the entrance to outdoor areas owned or operated by the local
government that clearly states that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or
that a tobacco-free environment is provided.
G.   Penalty: Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(2010 Code § 16-23; amd. Ord. 487, 3-8-2022)
5-5C-10.1: TOBACCO AND VAPOR USE ON CITY OWNED AND CONTROLLED PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions:
 
                    Any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
INDOOR AREA:        public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being
                    performed.
                    All buildings, indoor areas and outdoor areas, including
                    but not limited to recreational areas, and other property,
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: or portions thereof, owned or operated by the City of
                    Perkins, including but not limited to vehicles and
                    equipment owned by the City of Perkins.
OUTDOOR AREA:       Any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
                    recreational areas.
SMOKING:            The carrying by a person of a lighted cigarette, cigar,
                    pipe or other lighted smoking device.
                    Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
TOBACCO PRODUCT:    consumption. Tobacco produce does not include any product
                    approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
                    for use as a tobacco cessation product.
                    Any noncombustible product that may or may not contain
                    nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element,
                    battery, electronic circuit, or other mechanism, regardless
                    of shape or size, that can be sued to produce a vapor in a
                    solution or other form. Vapor Product shall include any
                    vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine
VAPOR PRODUCT:      or other form that is intended to be used with an
                    electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
                    cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or devise
                    and any vapor cartridge or other container of a solution
                    that may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to
                    be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic
                    cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device.
 
B.   No person is allowed to Smoke Tobacco Products in any places in which
Smoking Tobacco Products is prohibited by Oklahoma state law. (63 Okl.St.Ann. §
1-1523 (2019))
C.   No person is allowed to Smoke or use Tobacco Products and/or Vapor
Products on any Municipal Property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and
recreational areas.
D.   The use of tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited at all times
on all municipal property, indoor and outdoor, to include parks and
recreational areas and applies to every person while on municipal property.
E.   The use of tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited at all times
in any vehicle owned or leased by the City of Perkins.
F.   Smoking to include the use of vapor products is prohibited within twenty-
five (25) feet of the entrance or exit of any building owned, leased or
operated by the City of Perkins.
G.   The City Manager, or designee, shall be responsible for the posting on all
municipal property, indoor or outdoor, of signs that provide notice of the
prohibition of the use of tobacco products or vapor products, which signs shall
comply with the requirements of Section
5-5C-10 of the Perkins City Code.
H.   Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) to be enforced by
the City of Perkins Police Department. (Ord. 487, 3-8-2022)
5-5C-11: OBSCENE, THREATENING, HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS:
A.   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any
person, by means of a telephone, to wilfully commit any of the following acts:
   1.   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent;
   2.   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his identity and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any
person at the number called;
   3.   Knowingly permit any telephone under his control to be used for any
purpose prohibited by this section;
   4.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes repeated
calls or simultaneous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
To further provide that the use of a telephone facility under and by virtue of
the terms of this section shall include all use made of such facility between
the points of origin and reception.
B.   Any offense under this section shall be deemed a continuing offense and
shall further be deemed to have been committed at either place or origin or the
place of reception. (2010 Code § 16-24)
5-5C-12: DISTURBING PUBLIC ASSEMBLY:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful public gathering or
assembly by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane,
improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the place of
assembly or within hearing distance thereof. (2010 Code § 16-25)
5-5C-13: DISPLAY OF INSULTING SIGNS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to display
any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device that in its common acceptance is
insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the city, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (2010 Code § 16-25)
5-5C-14: EMPLOYER INQUIRIES REGARDING OWNERSHIP OR POSSESSION OF FIREARM:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any private employer doing business in the state
to ask any applicant for employment information about whether the applicant
owns or possesses a firearm.
B.   "Private employer" means any individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or nonprofit organization that employs or offers to employ one or
more persons in this state. (2010 Code § 16-25.1)
C.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 16-25.1; amd. 2012 Code)
5-5C-15: USE OF A COMPUTER TO THREATEN OR HARASS ANOTHER PERSON:
A.   Definitions:
   ACCESS: To approach, gain entry to, instruct, communicate with, store data
in, retrieve data from or otherwise use the logical, arithmetical, memory or
other resources of a computer, computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER: An electronic device which performs work using programmed
instruction having one or more of the capabilities of storage, logic,
arithmetic or communication. The term includes input, output, processing,
storage, software and communication facilities which are connected or related
to a device in a system or network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK: The interconnection of terminals by communication modes
with a computer, or a complex consisting of two (2) or more interconnected
computers.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM: A set or series of instructions or statements and related
data which when executed in actual or modified form directs or is intended to
direct the functioning of a computer system in a manner designed to perform
certain operations.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE: One or more computer programs, procedures and associated
documentation used in the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM: A set of related, connected or unconnected computer
equipment, devices including support devices, one or more of which contain
computer programs, electronic instructions, input data, and output data, that
performs functions including, but not limited to, logic, arithmetic, data
storage and retrieval, communication, and control and software. "Computer
system" does not include calculators which are not programmable and are not
capable of being connected to or used to access other computers, computer
networks, computer systems or support devices.
   DATA: A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, computer
software, computer programs or instructions. Data may be in any form, in
storage media, or as stored in the memory of the computer or in transit or
presented on a display device.
   PROPERTY: Any tangible or intangible item of value and includes, but is not
limited to, financial instruments, geophysical data or the interpretation of
that data, information, computer software, computer programs, electronically
produced data and computer produced or stored data, supporting documentation,
computer software in either machine or human readable form, electronic
impulses, confidential, copyrighted or proprietary information, private
identification codes or numbers which permit access to a computer by authorized
computer users or generate billings to consumers for purchase of goods and
services, including, but not limited to, credit card transactions and
telecommunications services or permit electronic fund transfers and any other
tangible or intangible item of value.
   SERVICES: Includes, but is not limited to, computer time, data processing
and storage functions and other uses of a computer, computer system or computer
network to perform useful work.
   SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION: Includes, but is not limited to, all documentation
in any form used in the construction, design, classification, implementation,
use or modification of computer software, computer programs or data.
   TELECOMMUNICATION AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION: Any type of telephonic,
electronic or radio communications, or transmission of signs, signals, data,
writings, images and sounds or intelligence of any nature by telephone,
including cellular telephones, wire, cable, radio, electromagnetic,
photoelectronic or photo-optical system or the creation, display, management,
storage, processing, transmission or distribution of images, text, voice, video
or data by wire, cable or wireless means, including the internet. The term
includes a communication initiated by electronic mail, instant message, network
call, or facsimile machine.
B.   Access Without Authorization: It shall be unlawful for any person in the
city limits to wilfully and without authorization, gain or attempt to gain
access to, use, or cause to be used a computer, computer system, computer
network or any other property.
C.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful for a person who, by means of
a computer, computer system, computer network, telecommunication or other
electronic communication device, wilfully either:
   1.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
   2.   Makes a computer, telecommunication or other electronic communication
with intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
   3.   Makes a computer, telecommunication or other electronic communication,
whether or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the
person making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse,
threaten, or harass any person at the called number;
   4.   Knowingly permits any computer, telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this section.
D.   Place Where Offense Committed: Any offense under this section shall be
deemed to have been committed at either place of origin or the place of
reception.
E.   Monitoring Use Of Child: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the monitoring of computer usage of, or the denial of computer or
internet access to, a child by a parent, legal guardian, legal custodian, or
foster parent. As used in this subsection, "child" shall mean any person less
than eighteen (18) years of age.
F.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be assessed a fine
as set by resolution. (Ord. 427, 12-9-2014)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
5-5D-1: Assault And Battery; Student Or School Employee
5-5D-2: Domestic Abuse
5-5D-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY; STUDENT OR SCHOOL EMPLOYEE:
A.   Assault Defined: An assault is any willful and unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
B.   Battery Defined: A battery is any willful and unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another.
C.   Assault And Battery Unlawful: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an
assault and battery within the City, and any person committing an assault or an
assault and battery within the City, shall be guilty of an offense.
D.   School Employees And Students: Any person who, without justifiable or
excusable cause, commits any assault, battery, or assault and battery upon the
person of a school employee while such employee is in the performance of any
duties as a school employee or upon any student while such student is
participating in any school activity or attending classes on school property
during school hours shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. School
employee means a teacher, principal, or any duly appointed person employed by a
school system or employees of a firm contracting with a school system for any
purpose, including any personnel not directly related to the teaching process
and school board members during school board meetings. (Ord. 476, 4-9-2019)
5-5D-2: DOMESTIC ABUSE:
A.   Prohibited; Penalty: Any person who commits any assault and battery
against a current or former spouse, a present spouse of a former spouse,
parents, a foster parent, a child, a person otherwise related by blood or
marriage, a person with whom the defendant is in a dating relationship, as
defined by 22 Oklahoma Statutes section 60.1, an individual with whom the
defendant has had a child, a person who formerly lived in the same household as
the defendant, or a person living in the same household as the defendant, shall
be guilty of domestic abuse. Upon conviction, the defendant shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2010 Code § 16-26; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Counseling, Treatment: For every conviction of domestic abuse, the court
shall:
   1.   Specifically order as a condition of a suspended sentence or probation
that a defendant participate in counseling or undergo treatment to bring about
the cessation of domestic abuse as specified in this section;
   2.   a. The court shall require the defendant to participate in counseling
or undergo treatment for domestic abuse by an individual licensed practitioner
or a domestic abuse counseling program approved by the court, or a domestic
abuse treatment program certified by the Attorney General. If the defendant is
ordered to participate in a domestic abuse counseling or treatment program, the
order shall require the defendant to attend the program for a minimum of fifty
two (52) weeks, complete the program, and be evaluated before and after
attendance of the program by a program counselor or a private counselor.
      b.   A program for anger management, couples counseling or family and
marital counseling shall not solely qualify for the counseling or treatment
requirement for domestic abuse pursuant to this section. The counseling may be
ordered in addition to counseling specifically for the treatment of domestic
abuse or per evaluation as set forth below. If, after sufficient evaluation and
attendance at required counseling sessions, the domestic violence treatment
program or licensed professional determines that the defendant does not
evaluate as a perpetrator of domestic violence or does evaluate as a
perpetrator of domestic violence and should complete other programs of
treatment simultaneously or prior to domestic violence treatment, including,
but not limited to, programs related to the mental health, apparent substance
or alcohol abuse or inability or refusal to manage anger, the defendant shall
be ordered to complete the counseling as per the recommendations of the
domestic violence treatment program or licensed professional.
C.   Review Hearings:
   1.   The court shall set a review hearing no more than one hundred twenty
(120) days after the defendant is ordered to participate in a domestic abuse
counseling program or undergo treatment for domestic abuse to assure the
attendance and compliance of the defendant with the provisions of this section
and the domestic abuse counseling or treatment requirements.
   2.   The court shall set a second review hearing after the completion of the
counseling or treatment to assure the attendance and compliance of the
defendant with the provisions of this section and the domestic abuse counseling
or treatment requirements. The court shall retain continuing jurisdiction over
the defendant during the course of ordered counseling through the final review
hearing.
   3.   At any review hearing, if the defendant is not satisfactorily attending
individual counseling or a domestic abuse counseling or treatment program, or
is not in compliance with any domestic abuse counseling or treatment
requirements, the court may order the defendant to further or continued
counseling, treatment or other necessary services. The court may revoke all or
any part of a suspended sentence, deferred sentence or probation pursuant to 22
Oklahoma Statutes section 991b, and subject the defendant to any or all
remaining portions of the original sentence.
   4.   At the first review hearing, the court shall require the defendant to
appear in court. Thereafter, for any subsequent review hearings, the court may
accept a report on the progress of the defendant from individual counseling,
domestic abuse counseling or the treatment program. There shall be no
requirement for the victim to attend review hearings.
D.   Payment Of Costs: The defendant may be required to pay all or part of the
cost of the counseling or treatment, in the discretion of the court.
E.   Prior Convictions: In the course of prosecuting any charge of domestic
abuse, the prosecutor shall provide the court, prior to sentencing or any plea
agreement, a local history and any other available history of past convictions
of the defendant within the last ten (10) years relating to domestic abuse,
stalking, harassment, rape, violation of a protective order, or any other
violent misdemeanor or felony convictions. (2010 Code § 16-26)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-5E-1: Petit Larceny
5-5E-2: Destruction Of Library Property
5-5E-3: Operation Of Machines By Spurious Coins
5-5E-4: Molesting Motor Vehicles
5-5E-5: Destroying, Injuring Or Molesting Buildings, Property
5-5E-6: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
5-5E-7: Throwing Or Shooting At Person Or Property
5-5E-8: Tampering With, Damaging Or Larceny Of Public Utilities
5-5E-9: Trespass Upon Land Forbidden
5-5E-1: PETIT LARCENY:
A.   Defined: "Petit larceny" is the taking of personal property of value of
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), accomplished by fraud or stealth
and with intent to deprive another thereof.
B.   Prohibited: Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit
larceny shall be guilty of an offense. (2010 Code § 16-27)
C.   Aiding Or Counseling: Any person who wilfully, by any means whatever,
either directly or indirectly, aids or counsels another person in committing
the crime of "petit larceny", as defined in subsection A of this section, shall
be guilty of the misdemeanor of aiding the crime of petit larceny. (2010 Code §
16-28)
D.   Petit Larceny From Mercantile Establishment Prohibited: Any person who
conceals unpurchased personal property of any mercantile establishment, either
on the premises or outside the premises of such establishment, shall be
presumed to have so concealed such personal property with the intention of
depriving such establishment thereof. The term "mercantile establishment", as
used in this subsection, means any place of business in, at or from which
goods, wares and merchandise are displayed, held, sold, offered for sale or
delivered from and sold at retail or wholesale. (Ord. 404, 7-9-2013)
5-5E-2: DESTRUCTION OF LIBRARY PROPERTY:
Any person having the custody of any book, map, magazine, document, record or
any paper, which item is the possession of the Perkins Public Library, and who
either steals, wilfully destroys, mutilates, defaces, alters, falsifies,
unlawfully removes or secretes such book, map, magazine, document, record or
other paper, or who permits any other person to do, is guilty of a misdemeanor
in violation of this section. (2010 Code § 16-29)
5-5E-3: OPERATION OF MACHINES BY SPURIOUS COINS:
A.   Prohibited: Whoever by means of any spurious coin or by any other means,
method, trick or device whatsoever, not lawfully authorized by the owner,
lessee or licensee of any coin operated machine operated in furtherance of or
in connection with the sale, use or enjoyment of any service, facility or
privilege, knowingly shall operate a machine, or whoever shall take, obtain,
accept or receive from or by means of any such coin operated machine, any
article of value or service for the use or enjoyment of any service, facility
or privilege by use of any spurious coin, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in
violation of this section.
B.   Spurious Coin Defined: For purposes of this section, the terms "spurious
coin" and "coin operated machine" shall be defined consistent with the
provisions of 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1848. (2010 Code § 16-30)
5-5E-4: MOLESTING MOTOR VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any person or
persons to deface or injure such automobile or motor vehicle, or to molest,
drive or attempt to drive any automobile for joyriding, or any other purpose,
or to manipulate or meddle with any machinery or appliances thereof without the
consent from the owner of such automobile or motor vehicle. (2010 Code § 16-31)
5-5E-5: DESTROYING, INJURING OR MOLESTING BUILDINGS, PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest any
structure, building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2010 Code § 16-32)
5-5E-6: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
A.   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, billboard,
or other property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in
charge thereof.
B.   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste or post any
sign, poster, advertisement, bill or placard so that said material interferes
with the line of sight of any vehicle proceeding upon any public street, alley
or thoroughfare. (2010 Code § 16-33)
5-5E-7: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSON OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or of property. (2010
Code § 16-34)
5-5E-8: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGING OR LARCENY OF PUBLIC UTILITIES:
A.   Public Utilities: It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any
kind of pipe, wire or other conductor carrying gas, water or electricity and
belonging to a public utility (whether public or privately owned) in such a
manner as to enable him to consume or use the gas, water or electricity without
its passing through the meter, or in any other way so as to evade payment
therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with or
destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other part of any public utility,
including telegraph and telephone systems.
B.   Community Antenna Television:
   1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to damage, molest,
tamper with or destroy, injure or alter any distribution structure,
transmission structure, line, equipment, facility, wire, meter, or other part
of any community antenna television system located within the corporate limits
of the city.
   2.   Any person, firm or corporation who with intent to defraud, makes or
causes to be made any instrument or contrivance and connects the same or causes
the same to be connected with any line, wire, meter, distribution structure or
transmission community antenna television system signals, so as to conduct such
community antenna television system signal to a point where the same may be
consumed in any manner so as to evade payment therefor, is guilty of the crime
of larceny of a community antenna television system signal in violation of this
section.
C.   Manholes; Sewer System: No person, except an authorized employee of the
city, shall be permitted to remove, tamper with or work on any sewer manhole
cover, nor shall any person damage, molest, tamper with or destroy, injure or
alter any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the city
sanitary sewer system. (2010 Code § 16-35)
5-5E-9: TRESPASS UPON LAND FORBIDDEN:
It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for anyone
whatsoever to wilfully or maliciously enter the property of another, after
having been expressly forbidden to do so by the owner or occupant thereof. It
is further provided that anyone who wilfully or maliciously enters said
property and therein commits or attempts to commit waste, theft, damage or any
other crime shall be deemed guilty of trespassing on property in violation of
the provisions of this section. (2010 Code § 16-36)
ARTICLE F. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-5F-1: Refusing To Aid Officer; Resisting Officer
5-5F-2: Eluding Police Officer
5-5F-3: Laser Pointers
5-5F-4: Failure Of Defendant To Appear
5-5F-5: Failure To Comply With Court Order
5-5F-6: Impersonating An Officer
5-5F-7: False Fire Alarms
5-5F-8: False Representation
5-5F-9: Helping Convicted Sex Offender Avoid Registration
5-5F-1: REFUSING TO AID OFFICER; RESISTING OFFICER:
A.   Every person who after having been lawfully commanded to aid any officer
in arresting any person or in taking any person who has escaped from legal
custody, or in executing any legal process wilfully neglects or refuses to aid
such officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
B.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to resist, oppose or
obstruct the chief of police, any other police officer, the municipal judge, or
other officer or employee of the city in the discharge of his official duties;
or, by threats or otherwise, to intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or to assault or
beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent language
toward or about, any such officer or employee while such officer or employee is
in the discharge of his official duties. (2010 Code § 16-37)
5-5F-2: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
A.   Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible
signal, e.g., a red light and a siren, from a peace officer driving a motor
vehicle showing the same to be an official police, sheriff, highway patrol or
state game ranger vehicle directing the operator to bring the vehicle to a stop
and who wilfully increases the speed or extinguishes the lights of the vehicle
in an attempt to elude such peace officer, or wilfully attempts in any other
manner to elude the peace officer, or who does elude such peace officer, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. (2010 Code § 16-37.1)
B.   The peace officer, while attempting to stop a violator of this section,
may communicate a request for the assistance of other peace officers from any
office, department or agency. Any peace officer having knowledge of such
request is authorized to render such assistance in stopping the violator and
may effect an arrest under this section upon probable cause. Violation of this
subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 16-37.1; amd. 2012 Code)
5-5F-3: LASER POINTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to focus, point or shine a laser beam
directly or indirectly on another person or animal in such a manner as to
harass or annoy said person or animal. (2010 Code § 16-38)
5-5F-4: FAILURE OF DEFENDANT TO APPEAR:
A.   It is unlawful for any person who has been charged and is the defendant in
any proceeding or matter before the municipal court to fail to appear for the
proceeding when his personal attendance is necessary. It is further provided,
that the intent of this section is to make it a separate offense for any
defendant either wilfully or otherwise to fail to appear before the municipal
court at the appointed time and place.
B.   A written promise to appear in court may be complied with by an appearance
by counsel.
C.   It shall be unlawful for the parent, legal guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor child who is charged with a violation of
a municipal ordinance who has executed a written promise to appear or has
received a notice to appear in the municipal court with said minor child to
fail to so appear. (2010 Code § 16-39)
D.   Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
 1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 16-39; amd. 2012 Code)
5-5F-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH COURT ORDER:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey or otherwise fail
to comply with any order of the municipal court. (2010 Code § 16-39.1)
B.   Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 16-39.1; amd. 2012 Code)
5-5F-6: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER:
A.   No person, other than official police officers of the city, shall wear or
carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of
office like or similar to, or a colored imitation of that adopted and worn or
carried by the official police officers of the city.
B.   No person, other than official police officers, shall wear or carry the
uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other insignia of any other
police department or any fictitious police department. (2010 Code § 16-40)
5-5F-7: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner
to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department, or any officer or
employee thereof, with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or
knowingly to cause the fire department or its officers or employees to make a
useless run. (2010 Code § 16-41)
5-5F-8: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
A.   It shall be unlawful within the city limits for any person, or any agent
or employee thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any
officer, employee or agency of the city government in any official application
to, document of, or official dealing or association with such officer or
agency.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, agent or employee thereof to make, or
file with, the police department, any false, misleading or unfounded statement
or report concerning the commission or alleged commission of any crime
occurring within the city. (2010 Code § 16-42)
5-5F-9: HELPING CONVICTED SEX OFFENDER AVOID REGISTRATION:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who has reason to believe that a sex
offender is in violation of the registration requirements of the sex offenders
registration act and who has the intent to assist the sex offender in eluding
arrest, to do any of the following:
   1.   Withhold information from, or fail to notify, a law enforcement agency
about the noncompliance of the sex offender with the registration requirements
of the sex offenders registration act, and, if known, the whereabouts of the
offender;
   2.   Harbor, attempt to harbor or assist another person in harboring or
attempting to harbor, the sex offender;
   3.   Conceal or attempt to conceal, or assist another person in concealing
or attempting to conceal, the sex offender; or
   4.   Provide information to a law enforcement agency regarding the sex
offender that the person knows to be false information. (2010 Code § 16-37.2)
B.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in section 1-4-1 of
this code. (2010 Code § 16-37.2; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE G. DEFRAUDING HOTELS AND MOTELS
SECTION:
5-5G-1: Unlawful To Defraud Hotels And Motels
5-5G-2: Proof Of Intent To Defraud
5-5G-1: UNLAWFUL TO DEFRAUD HOTELS AND MOTELS:
It is unlawful for any person to obtain food, lodging, services or other
accommodations at any hotel, motel, inn or restaurant, with intent to defraud
the owner or keeper thereof. (2010 Code § 16-44)
5-5G-2: PROOF OF INTENT TO DEFRAUD:
Proof that such lodging, food, services or other accommodations were obtained
by false pretense or by false or fictitious show, or pretense of any baggage or
other property, or that such person gave a check on which payment was refused,
or that such person left the hotel, motel, inn or restaurant without payment or
offering to pay for such food, lodging, services or other accommodations, or
that he surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his baggage, or that he
registered under a fictitious name, shall be prima facie proof of the intent to
defraud mentioned in section
5-5G-1 of this article; but this section shall not apply where there has been
an agreement in writing for delay in payment. (2010 Code § 16-45)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew For Minors
5-6-2: Tobacco To Minors
5-6-3: School Attendance Required
5-6-4: Gatherings Where Minors Consuming Alcoholic Beverages
5-6-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
   CITY: The city of Perkins, Payne County, Oklahoma.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: 1) as a natural or
adoptive parent; 2) as a legal guardian; 3) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or 4) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
the court.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted
to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
   REMAIN: To stay behind, loiter, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets.
   STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or, in the case of a
sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term street includes the legal
right of way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalk, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right of way of a street.
   TIME OF NIGHT: Referred to here is based upon the prevailing standard of
time, whether Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, generally
observed at that hour by the public.
   YEAR OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen (17) or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent
to the phrase "under eighteen (18) years of age". (2010 Code § 16-49)
B.   Curfew Hours Specified: It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain,
idle, wander, stroll or play in any public place, either on foot or to cruise
about without a set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any place in
the city between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. (Ord. 439, 11-10-2015)
C.   Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to
knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors under the age of eighteen
(18) during the hours referred to in subsection B of this section. (2010 Code §
16-51)
D.   Parent Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or
other adult person having custody or control of any minor under the age of
eighteen (18) to suffer or permit, or by inefficient control to allow, such
person to be on the streets or sidewalks or on or in any public property or
public place within the city during the hours referred to in subsection B of
this section. (2010 Code § 16-52)
E.   Exceptions: In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a city street
during the nocturnal hours for which subsection B of this section is intended
to provide the maximum limits of regulation shall not, however, be considered
in violation of this section:
   1.   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor to
take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area.
   3.   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such exercise by
possessing a written communication, signed by such minor and countersigned by a
parent of such minor, with their home address and telephone number, specifying
when and where and in what manner said minor will be on the streets at night in
the exercise of a first amendment right specified in such communication.
   4.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in said
minor's possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose, including point of origin and
destination.
   5.   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer.
   6.   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within thirty (30)
minutes of the termination of, a school activity, or an activity of a religious
or voluntary association; provided, the minor has a written communication in
the minor's possession, countersigned by the parent indicating the home address
and telephone number, the purpose for the event, when, where and in what manner
said minor will be on the streets at night.
   7.   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment
and his hours of employment, or carries a valid proof of employment which may
include the latest payroll receipt not over thirty (30) days old.
   8.   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. This clearly exempts bona fide interstate movement
through the city, particularly on normal routes. (2010 Code § 16-53)
F.   Procedures:
   1.   A police officer of the city, upon finding or having attention to any
minor on the streets in prima facie violation of this section, normally shall
take the minor to the city police station, or other place designated by the
chief of police, where a parent shall immediately be notified to come for such
minor, whereupon they shall be interrogated. This is intended to permit
ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts, and to
centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement.
   2.   In any event, such police officer shall, within twenty four (24) hours,
file a written report with the chief of police, or shall participate to the
extent of the information for which he is responsible. Said report shall be
treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes.
   3.   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent. (2010 Code § 16-54)
G.   Penalty: Any minor violating the provisions of this section shall be dealt
with in accordance with the juvenile court law and procedure. Any parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor, who
after the warning notice given pursuant to subsection F of this section, has a
second or further violation by a minor, such parent violates this section,
which violation shall be treated as an offense by the parent. The penalty shall
be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 16-55; amd. 2012 Code)
5-6-2: TOBACCO TO MINORS:
A.   Definitions:
PERSON:                  Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership,
                         corporation, trust, or association, however formed.
                         A driver's license, license for identification only or
                         other generally accepted means of identification that
PROOF OF AGE:            describes the individual as twenty-one (21) years of
                         age or older, and contains a photograph or other
                         likeness of the individual and appears on its face to
                         be valid.
                         A tobacco or vapor product distributed to members of
SAMPLE:                  the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the
                         product.
SAMPLING:                The distribution of samples to members of the public
                         in a public place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT:         Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
                         human consumption.
                         The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: transaction scan device, the validity of a driver's
                         license or other government issued photo
                         identification.
                         Any commercial device or combination of devices used
                         at a point of sale or entry that is capable of
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: deciphering in an electronically readable format the
                         information encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code
                         of a driver's license or other government issued photo
                         identification.
                         Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
                         nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element,
                         battery, electronic circuit, or other mechanism,
                         regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
                         produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor
                         products" shall include any vapor cartridge or other
                         container with or without nicotine or other form that
                         is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette,
VAPOR PRODUCT:           electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
                         pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor
                         cartridge or other container of a solution, that may
                         or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be
                         used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic
                         cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device.
                         "Vapor products" do not include any products regulated
                         by the United States Food and Drug Administration
                         under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
 
B.   Tobacco Sales To Minors:
   1.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person within the city to sell, give
or furnish in any manner any tobacco or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco or
vapor product on behalf of any such person; provided, however, that it shall
not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to handle
such products when required in the performance of the employee's duties.
   2.   Proof of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco
or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   3.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
assessed a fine of:
      a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense,
      b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
within a two-year period following the first offense,
      c.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third offense
within a two-year period following the first offense.
   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon
proof of age, shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
subsection.
   4.   Employee Violations: If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of
a store at which tobacco or vapor products are sold at retail, the employee
shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine. Each
violation by any employee of an owner of a store licensed to sell tobacco or
vapor products shall be deemed a violation against the owner for purposes of a
license suspension pursuant to subsection B5 of this section.
   5.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure to pay such fine within ninety (90)
days of assessment, the municipal court clerk shall notify the department of
public safety and the department shall suspend or not issue a driver's license
to said employee until proof of payment has been furnished to the department of
public safety. Upon failure of a store owner to pay the fine within ninety (90)
days of the assessment of the fine, the municipal court clerk shall notify the
tax commission and the tax commission shall suspend the store's license to sell
tobacco products until proof of payment has been furnished to the Oklahoma tax
commission.
C.   Minors Not To Possess Tobacco or Vapor Product:
   1.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for a person within the city who is under
twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase, receive or have in their possession a
tobacco or vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any purported
proof of age which is false or fraudulent, for the purpose of purchasing or
receiving any tobacco or vapor product; provided, however, that it shall not be
unlawful for such a person to handle such tobacco or vapor product when
required in the performance of such person's duties.
   2.   Penalty; Failure To Pay Fine: Any person, firm or corporation who
violates any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be assessed a fine
      a.   Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      b.   Not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or
subsequent offense within a one-year period following the first offense.
   Upon failure of the individual to pay such fine within ninety (90) days of
the day of such fine, the municipal court clerk shall notify the department of
public safety and the department of public safety shall suspend or not issue a
driver's license to said individual until proof of payment has been furnished
to the department of public safety.
D.   Signs In Retail Establishments:
   1.   Required: Every person who sells or displays tobacco or vapor products
at retail shall post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business
a sign stating the following:
   “IT'S THE LAW. WE DO NOT SELL TOBACCO OR VAPOR PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21
YEARS OF AGE.”
   The sign shall also provide the toll free number operated by the alcoholic
beverage laws enforcement (ABLE) commission for the purpose of reporting
violations of the prevention of youth access to tobacco act.
   2.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection D.1. of this section, the
city shall assess a fine not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). Each day a
violation is continuing shall constitute a separate offense. The notice
required by subsection D1 of this section shall be the only notice required to
be posted or maintained in any store that sells tobacco or vapor products at
retail.
E.   Notice To Retail Employees; Signed Acknowledgment:
   1.   Required: Every person engaged in the business of selling tobacco or
vapor products at retail shall notify each individual employed by that person
as a retail salesclerk that state law:
      a.   Prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco or vapor products to
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age and the purchase or receipt of
tobacco or vapor products by any person under twenty-one (21) years of age; and
      b.   Requires that proof of age be demanded from a prospective purchaser
or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance
that the prospective purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one (21) years
of age.
   2.   Signed Acknowledgment: This notice shall be provided before the
individual commences work as a retail salesclerk. The individual shall signify
that he or she has received the notice required by this subsection by signing a
form stating as follows:
   I understand that state law prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco
products or vapor products to persons under twenty-one (21) years of age and
out of package sales, and requires proof of age of purchaser or recipient if an
ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective
purchaser or recipient may be under twenty-one (21) years of age. I promise, as
a condition of my employment, to obey the law. I understand that violations by
me may be punishable by fines, suspension or nonissuance of my driver's
license. In addition, I understand that violations by me may subject the store
owner to fines or license or permit suspension.
F.   Vending Machine Sales Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell tobacco or vapor products through a vending machine, unless the vending
machine is located:
   1.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are not
open to the public; and
   2.   In places that are open to the public, but to which persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age are not admitted.
G.   Distribution Of Tobacco or Vapor products:
   1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to
distribute tobacco products, vapor products or product samples to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   2.   Distance Requirements: Notwithstanding subsection G.1. of this section,
no person shall distribute tobacco products, vapor products or product samples
in or on any public street, sidewalk or park that is within three hundred feet
(300') of any playground, school or other facility when the facility is being
used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   3.    Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions
of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be assessed of:
      a.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      b.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      c.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense.
   4.   Failure To Pay: Upon failure of the individual to pay the fine within
ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the municipal court clerk
shall notify the department of public safety and the department of public
safety shall suspend or not issue a driver's license to said individual until
proof of payment has been furnished to the department of public safety.
H.   Sale Of Cigarettes:
   1.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes,
except in the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the
manufacturer.
   2.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine:
      a.   Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      b.   Not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or
subsequent offense within a one-year period following the first offense.
   Each day of continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
I.   Display Or Sale Of Tobacco Products; Public Access:
   1.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display
or offer for sale tobacco products or vapor products in any manner that allows
public access to the tobacco product or vapor product without assistance from
the person displaying the tobacco product or vapor product or an employee or
the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.   
   2.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection I.1. of this section, the
city shall impose a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each offense.
J.   Transfer Of Any Material Or Device Used In Smoking, Chewing Or Consumption
Of Tobacco To Minors:
   1.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in
any manner to another person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age any
material or device used in the smoking, chewing or other method of consumption
of tobacco products or vapor products, including cigarette papers, pipes,
holders of smoking materials of all types, and other items designed primarily
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or vapor products.
   2.   Penalty: When a person violates subsection J.1 .of this section, the
city shall impose a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 425, 12-9-2014; amd. Ord. 485, 4-13-2021)
5-6-3: SCHOOL ATTENDANCE REQUIRED:
A.   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of a child who is over the age of five (5) years, and under the age of
eighteen (18) years, to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to
attend and comply with the rules of some public, private or other school,
unless other means of education are provided for the full term the schools of
the district are in session or the child is excused as provided in this
section. One-half (1/2) day of kindergarten shall be required of all children
five (5) years of age or older unless the child is excused from kindergarten
attendance as provided in this section. A child who is five (5) years of age
shall be excused from kindergarten attendance until the next school year after
the child is six (6) years of age if a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child notifies the superintendent of the district where the
child is a resident by certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or
at any time during the first school year that the child is required to attend
kindergarten pursuant to this section, of election to withhold the child from
kindergarten until the next school year after the child is six (6) years of
age.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of twelve (12)
years and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not finished four
(4) years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with
the rules of some public, private or other school, or receive an education by
other means for the full term the schools of the district are in session.
Provided, that this section shall not apply:
   1.   If any child is prevented from attending school by reason of mental or
physical disability, to be determined by the board of education of the district
upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician, or, if
no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing physician;
   2.   If any child is excused from attendance at school, due to an emergency,
by the principal teacher of the school in which such child is enrolled, at the
request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person having control of
such child;
   3.   If any child who has attained his or her sixteenth birthday is excused
from attending school by written, joint agreement between:
      a.   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school, and
      b.   The parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided, further,
that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint agreement
between a school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian of the
child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for the best
interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until
the child has reached the age of eighteen (18) years;
   4.   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
observing religious holy days if before the absence, the parent, guardian, or
person having custody or control of the student submits a written request for
the excused absence. The school district shall excuse a student pursuant to
this subsection for the days on which the religious holy days are observed and
for the days on which the student must travel to and from the site where the
student will observe the holy days; or
   5.   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
participating in a military funeral honors ceremony upon approval of the school
principal.
C.   It shall be the duty of the attendance officer to enforce the provisions
of this section. In the prosecution of a parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of a child for violation of any provision of this section, it
shall be an affirmative defense that the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child has made substantial and reasonable efforts to
comply with the compulsory attendance requirements of this section but is
unable to cause the child to attend school. If the court determines the
affirmative defense is valid, it shall dismiss the complaint against the
parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child and shall notify
the school attendance officer who shall refer the child to the district
attorney for the county in which the child resides for the filing of a child in
need of supervision petition against the child pursuant to the Oklahoma
juvenile code.
D.   Any parent, guardian, custodian, child or other person violating any of
the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as follows:
   1.   For the first offense, a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00);
   2.   For the second offense, a fine of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00);
and
   3.   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine of up to two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
Each day the child remains out of school after the oral and documented or
written warning has been given to the parent, guardian, custodian, child or
other person or the child has been ordered to school by the juvenile court
shall constitute a separate offense.
E.   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of this
section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in court
by any authorized employee of the school district.
F.   The court may order the parent, guardian, or other person having custody
of the child to perform community service in lieu of the fine set forth in this
section. The court may require that all or part of the community service be
performed for a public school district.
G.   The court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child any conditions as the court considers necessary to
obtain compliance with school attendance requirements. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   1.   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
   2.   Attending meetings with school officials;
   3.   Taking the child to school;
   4.   Taking the child to the bus stop;
   5.   Attending school with the child;
   6.   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
and following the recommendations of the evaluator; and
   7.   Taking the child for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse evaluation
and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused by the
court. (Ord. 409, 9-10-2013)
5-6-4: GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
A.   Definitions:
   ALCOHOL: Means and includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. It
does not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured or produced
as denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Means alcohol, spirits, beer, and wine as those terms
are defined in title 3, chapter 1 of this Code and also includes every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings.
   GATHERING: Means a party, gathering or event, where a group of three (3) or
more persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: Means: 1) a person who, by court order, is the guardian of
the person of a minor; or 2) a public or private agency with whom a minor has
been placed by the court.
   MINOR: Means any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: Means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster
parent or stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Means any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   RESPONSE COSTS: Means the costs associated with responses by law
enforcement, fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering,
including, but not limited to:
   1.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire or
other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to,
remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response;
   2.   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering;
   3.   The cost of repairing any City equipment or property damaged, and the
cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
   4.   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this section.
B.   Prohibited Consumption By Minor; Exception: Except as permitted by State
law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public any
alcoholic beverage; or
   2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
C.   Hosting, Permitting Or Allowing Event Where Minors Consuming Alcoholic
Beverages:
   1.   Prohibited:
      a.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises, to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      b.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had that person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection C1a of this
section.
   2.   Exceptions:
      a.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
      b.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      c.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any
religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
      d.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the State
to dispense alcoholic beverages.
      e.   This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by State
or Federal law.
D.   Reservation Of Legal Options: Violations of this section may be prosecuted
by the City criminally, civilly and/or administratively as provided by this
Code. The City may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with
enforcement of this section through all remedies or procedures provided by
statute, ordinance or law. This section shall not limit the authority of peace
officers or private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising
out of conduct regulated by this section, nor shall they limit the City ability
to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same
circumstances necessitating the application of this section.
E.   Penalty:
   1.   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an offense against the City and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished for violation as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, plus all court costs and statutory penalties, as set forth
in this Code.
   2.   Any juvenile who shall violate the provision of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an offense against the City and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished for violation according to the Code of the City Juvenile
Court. (Ord. 469, 9-11-2018)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
5-7A-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
ANIMAL:   Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
          rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
          Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
          control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of
AT LARGE: the owner, a member of his immediate family over twelve (12) years of
          age, or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the
          owner's premises or not.
          Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
          animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed
OWNER:    animal remains, or to which it customarily returns, for a period of
          ten (10) days or more, shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the
          animal. (2010 Code § 3-1; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
 
ARTICLE B. ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-7B-1: Animals At Large Prohibited; Exception For Cats
5-7B-2: Turning Animals At Large
5-7B-3: Pasturing In Public Areas
5-7B-4: Swine Prohibited; Exception
5-7B-5: Animals Which Disturb Prohibited
5-7B-6: Inspections; Violation And Complaint
5-7B-7: Permit Required; Exception
5-7B-8: Application For Permit; Petition, City Commission Approval Required
5-7B-9: Enclosure Requirements
5-7B-10: Revocation Of Permit
5-7B-11: Impounding; Redeeming Animals
5-7B-12: Sale Of Unredeemed Animals
5-7B-13: Tethering
5-7B-1: ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR CATS:
No owner shall permit any animals, including chickens and other fowl, owned,
harbored or kept by him/her, except cats, to be at large; and, it is unlawful
for any animal, except cats, to be at large at any time. (2010 Code § 3-2; amd.
Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-2: TURNING ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at large, or in any
manner to turn such animal at large. (2010 Code § 3-3; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7B-3: PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
or on any railroad right of way, or any property, without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property. (2010 Code § 3-4; amd. Ord. 490, 9-
13-2022)
5-7B-4: SWINE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to keep swine within the city, except in an
enclosure awaiting immediate transportation. (2010 Code § 3-5; amd. Ord. 490,
9-13-2022)
5-7B-5: ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to keep any dog or other animal which, by
barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and quiet of any person or
persons. (2010 Code § 3-6; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-6: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATION AND COMPLAINT:
The health officer or police chief, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect
any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his own
initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary to
the owner of such animals to cause such animals to be kept as provided in this
chapter, or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a
complaint before the municipal court against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or of any such reasonable order, but this shall not
abridge the right of others to make such complaint. (2010 Code § 3-7; amd. Ord.
490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-7: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firms, corporations or
associations, or individuals, to allow or permit any fowl, including, but not
limited to, chickens, pigeons and other like fowl, or any domestic animals,
including, but not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cows, sheep or goats,
within the city limits without first having obtained a permit from the city
clerk. (2010 Code § 3-8)
B.   No permit shall be required when said animal or fowl pens are located on a
tract of land containing five (5) or more acres, or where said property is
being used as a commercial hatchery. (2010 Code § 3-11; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7B-8: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PETITION, CITY COMMISSION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
The city clerk shall issue a permit, subject to the satisfaction requirements
of subsection
5-7B-7A of this article, upon receipt of an application, in writing, together
with a petition requesting permission for an animal or a fowl pen, said
petition to be signed by one hundred percent (100%) of the owners and occupants
of the property adjacent to, or within one hundred feet (100'), excluding
streets and alleys, of the outside boundary of the site of such animal or fowl
pen, but no such permit shall be issued without the prior approval of the city
commission. (2010 Code § 3-9; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-9: ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Suitable Enclosure Required: Prior to the issuance of a permit for the
keeping of animals and fowl within the city limits, the city clerk shall
ascertain that suitable enclosure space has been erected for the safekeeping of
such animals or fowl, and each such enclosure or pen shall be substantially
erected on the ground area of not less than nine hundred (900) square feet per
each fowl pen, and not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet
per animal, and not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any dwelling,
and all of such enclosures shall be situated on an alley or rear property line
on the lot. (2010 Code § 3-10)
B.   Enclosures To Be Kept Clean:
   1.   All enclosures where animals or fowl are kept shall be kept clean and
free from all filth at all times.
   2.   All manure shall be cleaned regularly and kept in a separate
receptacle, properly covered, which shall be removed at least twice a week, or
whenever directed by the health officer or other officials of the city.
   3.   Each enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual spray as often
as necessary to control flies and other insects, and the premises shall be
disinfected not less than once in a period of two (2) weeks. (2010 Code § 3-12;
amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The keeping of any animal or fowl shall be upon the condition that the city
commission may revoke the permit issued for this purpose when it is
satisfactorily proved that any of the provisions of this article have been
violated; or that the keeping of any such animal or fowl is a nuisance to any
individual, neighborhood or the public generally; or that the keeping of the
same is likely to endanger, or be prejudicial to, the public health or welfare
of any citizen or citizens of the city. (2010 Code § 3-13; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7B-11: IMPOUNDING; REDEEMING ANIMALS:
A.   Any animal or fowl found running at large upon the streets, alleys, public
places, or other private places, not under control of the owner, may be taken
up by any officer of the city. The owner of any such animal or fowl so taken
may redeem such animal or fowl by paying an impounding fee as set by resolution
of the city commission, and the cost of maintaining such animal or fowl in such
custody, not to exceed a fee per day as set by resolution of the city
commission. If any animal or fowl so taken shall not be redeemed by the owner
thereof within seventy-two (72) hours of its taking, including Sundays and
holidays, such animal or fowl may be sold at public auction to the highest
bidder after notice having first been given as provided in section
5-7B-12 of this article.
B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, any disaster animals shall
be held pursuant to the provision of the Oklahoma care and disposition of
disaster animals act. "Disaster animals" means domesticated companion animals
that have become separated from an owner as the result of a state declared
emergency for a county or portion of a county requiring companion animals'
owners to leave their residences for more than twenty-four (24) hours or a
federally declared disaster requiring companion animals' owners to leave their
residences for more than twenty-four (24) hours. Disaster animals include those
found on private property or running at large, as well as owner surrendered or
relinquished companion animals. (Ord. 440, 12-8-2015; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-12: SALE OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS:
A.   Subject to the Oklahoma care and disposition of disaster animals act, when
any animal or fowl is so impounded by the city for a period of seventy-two (72)
hours, including Sundays and holidays, or longer without redemption thereof by
the owner, the city manager may give notice by publication one time in a
newspaper of general circulation within the limits of the city, setting forth
therein the date of impoundment, the description of the animal or fowl
impounded, the fact that the same will be offered for sale at a time not less
than three (3) days from date of publication, and that upon sale thereof, the
city shall give a bill of sale to the purchasers, without warranty, and deliver
possession of the animal or fowl to the purchasers.
B.   All money received from such sales shall be deposited in the general fund
of the city. (Ord. 440, 12-8-2015; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7B-13: TETHERING:
A.    It is unlawful for an animal's owner, possessor, or keeper to keep or
maintain the animal on a tie-out consisting of a rope, chain, cable, or other
type of tether for any duration under conditions which may reasonably threaten
the health or well-being of the animal.
B.   Between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. and six o’clock (6:00)
a.m., it is unlawful for any animal's owner, possessor, or keeper to keep or
maintain an unsupervised dog on a tie-out consisting of a rope, chain, cable,
or other type of tether.
C.   A tether of any type shall properly fit the animal with a harness or
buckle-type collar to which the tether shall be attached. The tether shall be
of adequate length to allow reasonable exercise and access to water and shelter
at all times, and shall not be subject to entanglement with other objects in
any manner to cause the animal any injury or discomfort or be of a weight
disproportionate to the size of the animal so tethered as to unduly burden the
animal. Tethering animals to choke chains or prong collars is prohibited. (Ord.
497, 2-14-2024)
ARTICLE C. ANIMAL VACCINATIONS, LICENSING AND OTHER REQUIRED OR PROHIBITED ACTS
OR BEHAVIORS
SECTION:
5-7C-1: Dog License Required
5-7C-2: Application; Issuance
5-7C-3: Fee For License
5-7C-4: Vaccination Against Rabies Required
5-7C-5: Tag And Collar
5-7C-6: Register Of Licenses Maintained
5-7C-7: Confinement Of Certain Dogs
5-7C-8: Rabies Control
5-7C-9: Prohibited Acts And Activities
5-7C-10: Menacing Behavior By Animals And Dangerous Animals
5-7C-10-1: Definitions
5-7C-10-2: Menacing Or Dangerous Behavior By Animals Prohibited
5-7C-10-3: Animals Classified By Other Governmental Entities
5-7C-10-4: Exceptions To Classification
5-7C-10-5: Exception For Certain Facilities
5-7C-10-6: Confinement
5-7C-10-7: Hearing Concerning Disposition Of Animal
5-7C-10-8: Restriction Guidelines For Maintaining A Menacing Or Dangerous
Animal
5-7C-10-9: Penalty
5-7C-11: Impoundment
5-7C-12: Enforcement Authority
5-7C-1: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, association or corporation shall own, keep or harbor any dog over
six (6) months of age within the corporate limits of the city unless such dog
is licensed as herein set forth. (2010 Code § 3-16; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-2: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
A.   Application: Written application for the license shall be made to the city
clerk and shall state the name and address of the owner, and the name, breed,
color, age and sex of the dog, and whether the dog has been spayed or neutered.
The application shall be accompanied by a proper vaccination certificate as
hereinafter provided and the payment of the yearly license fee, as hereinafter
provided. (2010 Code § 3-17)
B.   Issuance: Upon receipt of a proper written application, vaccination
certificate and payment of the license fee, the city clerk shall issue to the
applicant a dog license, a numbered receipt for the amount of the fee and a
numbered metallic license tag. (2010 Code § 3-17; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 490, 9-
13-2022)
5-7C-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
A.   Established By Resolution: The yearly fee shall be set by the city
commission by motion or resolution.
B.   Term Of License: All dog licenses shall be for one year, beginning the
first day of the issue of the license tag.
C.   Lost Tag: In the event that the metallic license tag issued for a dog is
lost, the owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of the fee that
shall be set by the city commission by motion or resolution. (2010 Code § 3-18;
amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-4: VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED:
Before the license required herein may be issued, every dog shall first be
vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the
state department of health prior to the issuance of the license. Such
vaccination shall be performed by a duly licensed veterinarian. Upon payment of
the veterinarian's fees, the veterinarian shall deliver to the owner, keeper or
harborer of each dog vaccinated, a vaccination certificate in duplicate showing
the date of vaccination, the name and address of the owner, and the breed,
color, apparent age and sex of the dog. (2010 Code § 3-21; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7C-5: TAG AND COLLAR:
A.   Required: Every owner is required to see that the numbered metallic
license issued pursuant to this article is securely fastened to the dog's
collar, choke chain or harness, which must be worn by the dog at all times.
(2010 Code § 3-19)
B.   Counterfeiting, Placing On Other Dogs: No person shall counterfeit or
attempt to counterfeit any tag issued for a dog as provided in this article, or
take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, or place such tag upon a dog
for which the tag was not specifically issued. (2010 Code § 3-28; amd. Ord.
490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-6: REGISTER OF LICENSES MAINTAINED:
The City Clerk shall keep a register of all dog licenses issued in which shall
be entered the name and address of the person to whom issued, a description of
the dog licensed, the amount paid for the license, the date of its issuance and
the date of its expiration, and the number of the license and metallic license
tag issued. (2010 Code § 3-20; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-7: CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS:
A.   Menacing Or Dangerous Dogs: The owner shall confine within a building or
secure enclosure every menacing or dangerous dog, and not take such dog out of
the building or enclosure unless the dog is securely muzzled.
B.   Female Dogs: Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building
or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, in such
manner that the dog cannot come in contact with a male dog, except for breeding
purposes. In which event, such dogs shall be in some enclosure place entirely
out of public view. (2010 Code § 3-22; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-8: RABIES CONTROL:
A.   Purpose: Pursuant to the authority contained in 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-508 et seq., the purpose of this section is to protect the public
health by establishing uniform rules for the prevention and control of zoonotic
diseases in the State. (2010 Code § 3-31)
B.   Definitions: The following words and terms, when used in this section,
shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
ANIMAL:                     Any warm blooded animal.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:     The animal control officer or any police officer of
                            the City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
CAT:                        Any felis catus.
CITY:                       The City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
                            Properly immunized by a licensed veterinarian with
                            a vaccine licensed and approved by the United
                            States Department of Agriculture for use in that
CURRENTLY VACCINATED:       animal species, or meeting conditions specified in
                            Oklahoma Administrative Code 310:599-3-9. Vaccine
                            must have been given at appropriate time intervals
                            for the age of the animal and type of vaccine
                            administered.
DEPARTMENT:                 The Oklahoma State Department of Health.
                            An employee of the Oklahoma State Department of
                            Health, or a county health department, who is
DEPARTMENT DESIGNEE:        acting within their scope of rabies control
                            authority designated through the Commissioner of
                            Health.
DOG:                        Any canis familiaris, excluding hybrids.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL:            A companion animal, including dogs, cats and
                            ferrets; an equine animal; or a livestock animal.
                            The humane killing of an animal generally performed
EUTHANIZE:                  by a veterinarian, or personnel at an animal
                            control facility under the indirect supervision of
                            a veterinarian.
                            A bite or physical contact with the saliva or other
EXPOSURE TO RABIES:         potentially infectious tissues from an animal
                            confirmed or suspected of being infected with
                            rabies.
                            A situation where the owner of a biting animal is
                            directly related to the bite victim, that is
FIRST PARTY OWNERSHIP:      parent-child, sibling-sibling, grandparent-child;
                            or when the legal residence of the animal owner and
                            the bite victim are the same.
                            Confinement and observation of an animal allowed at
                            the animal owner's property for a specified time
                            period, where one (1) of the following acceptable
                            methods of confinement for a dog are used: 1)
                            complete indoor housing, 2) caging or kenneling in
                            an enclosure with a securely latched door, or 3)
                            yard confinement with perimeter fencing that the
                            dog is unable to climb over or dig under.
                            Acceptable methods of confinement for a cat or
HOME QUARANTINE:            ferret are: 1) complete indoor housing, or 2)
                            caging in an enclosure that prevents escape. The
                            animal's needs for ambient temperature control,
                            water, nutrition, elimination, and space to
                            comfortably stand up and lie down must be
                            adequately provided by the selected confinement
                            method. Should the animal exhibit neurologic signs,
                            die, or disappear during the specified period, an
                            Oklahoma licensed veterinarian and the department
                            shall be immediately notified.
HYBRID:                     An offspring of two (2) animals of different
                            species.
                            Physical confinement of an animal during a
                            specified time period when the animal is monitored
QUARANTINE:                 for the development of disease. During this time
                            period, the animal is prevented from having contact
                            with other animals, and human contact is limited to
                            as few caretakers as possible.
                            An acute viral disease of humans and warm blooded
RABIES:                     animals that affects the central nervous system and
                            is usually fatal.
RECOGNIZED ZOOLOGICAL PARK: Any member of the American Association of
                            Zoological Parks.
                            An animal considered as wildlife; any animal not
WILD ANIMAL:                normally adapted to live in intimate association
                            with humans nor raised for consumption by humans.
ZOONOTIC DISEASE:           A disease that is transmissible from animals to
                            humans under natural conditions.
 
C.   Confinement: Any person or entity owning, harboring or keeping a dog or
cat which in the preceding ten (10) days has bitten any person shall, upon
receipt of written notice by the City, place such dog or cat in confinement
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten (10) days
from the date the person was bitten. The impoundment and observation of the dog
or cat shall be conducted at the veterinarian's facility, or an animal control
facility under contract or letter of agreement which identifies the licensed
veterinarian responsible for the rabies quarantine. Unvaccinated animals shall
be vaccinated against rabies on the final day of the ten (10) day observation
period prior to discharge from the veterinarian's supervision. (2010 Code § 3-
31)
D.   Exceptions: Exceptions to this rule include the following circumstances:
   1.   Dogs or cats involved in a first party ownership may be allowed to be
placed in a home quarantine for a ten (10) day period immediately following the
bite.
   2.   Dogs or cats meeting the criteria of currently vaccinated against
rabies, and not inflicting a severe injury, shall be placed in a home
quarantine until the end of a ten (10) day period from the bite. In some
instances, a certification of animal health obtained after examination by a
licensed veterinarian on the tenth day may be required by the department or
local animal control authority.
   3.   Animals in service to the blind or hearing-impaired, and search and
rescue dogs or other animals used for police enforcement duties shall be exempt
from the quarantine when a bite exposure occurs and proper record of
immunization against rabies is presented. A certification of animal health
obtained after examination by a licensed veterinarian at the end of ten (10)
days may be required by the department.
   4.   Stray or unwanted dogs or cats that have bitten any person may either
be quarantined for ten (10) days at a veterinary facility or a recognized
animal control facility; or immediately euthanized and the brain tissue
submitted to the State Department of Health Laboratory for rabies testing. Upon
successful completion of the ten (10) day period, a stray animal may be placed
for adoption at the discretion of the animal control authority.
   5.   In rare instances, other good and valid health reasons of the owner or
animal may be considered for justification to home quarantine (e.g., a bitch
with a litter of very young puppies, an animal with a contagious disease,
etc.). Approval for home quarantine will be determined by the department or its
designee.
E.   Duties Of Veterinarian: It shall be the duty of the veterinarian in whose
supervision the dog or cat is placed to keep the dog or cat isolated and
secured in a separate cage or kennel and under observation for any symptoms of
rabies. The veterinarian shall report immediately to the animal control officer
any changes occurring in the condition of the dog or cat. In the event the dog
or cat dies, or develops rabieslike symptoms within the specified period of
confinement, the dog or cat head shall be removed immediately and packed in a
shipping container in accordance with instructions published on the rabies
laboratory form, ODH Form 460, and sent to the State Department of Health
Laboratory, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, for rabies testing.
F.   Special Circumstances Requiring Euthanasia: In special circumstances
involving a bite to any person, the animal control officer has the authority to
require the immediate euthanasia of a specified dog or cat for the performance
of rabies diagnostics. "Special circumstances" refers to multiple and severe
bite wounds, or deep punctures or lacerations to the face, head or neck. Such
requirement for euthanasia will be made following investigation of the bite
report by the animal control officer.
G.   Considerations For Disposition Of Animal:
   1.   The final decision for animal destruction, quarantine or other
disposition of any animal, other than a dog or cat that bites a person, or
otherwise potentially exposes a person to rabies, shall be determined through
the Police Department. The decision maker will consider:
      a.   The epidemiology and risk of rabies in the species of animal in
question;
      b.   Possible prior exposure to a rabies vector;
      c.   Behavior of the animal at the time of the bite;
      d.   Prior rabies vaccinations; and
      e.   Other relevant circumstances that may exist.
   2.   In some situations, the animal control officer will consider the
initiative and willingness of the individual so exposed to submit to
postexposure antirabies immunization after being adequately informed of all
potential risks.
   3.   Any biting animal determined to be at significant risk for the
transmission of rabies shall, upon order by the animal control officer, or a
specifically designated representative, be humanely killed and the brain tissue
submitted to the state department of health laboratory for rabies testing.
   4.   The city has the authority to order the quarantine of an animal,
determined to be at very low risk for the transmission of rabies, for a thirty
(30) day observation period as an alternate method to euthanasia and testing.
H.   Exposure Requires Revaccination And Isolation: Any domestic animal which
is currently vaccinated against rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall
be immediately revaccinated and isolated, by leashing or confinement under the
owner's supervision, for a period of at least forty five (45) days.
I.   Unvaccinated And Exposed To Rabies:
   1.   Any dog, cat or ferret which is not currently vaccinated against rabies
and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be:
      a.   Euthanized immediately either by a veterinarian of the owner's
choice, or the rabies control officer or his/her agent; or so
      b.   Placed in strict quarantine and observed for a period of six (6)
months under the supervision of a veterinarian, either at a veterinary facility
or an approved local animal control facility. Such dog, cat or ferret shall be
vaccinated against rabies approximately thirty (30) days prior to release from
quarantine.
   2.   Any livestock or equine animal that is not currently vaccinated and is
exposed to a rabid animal will be managed according to the most current
compendium of animal rabies control published by the National Association Of
State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc.
J.   Escape Of Biting Animal: An unvaccinated dog, cat or other domestic animal
which is exposed to a skunk, bat or other animal suspected of being rabid where
the biting animal has escaped and/or is not available for laboratory testing,
shall be considered exposed to rabies and shall be dealt with according to
Oklahoma administrative code section 310:599-3-6.
K.   Vaccination Records: If a domestic animal has been bitten or directly
exposed to a rabid animal, record of vaccination by a veterinarian must be
provided to determine that animal to be currently vaccinated. Veterinarians
shall be required to keep a record of a rabies vaccination for a minimum period
of three (3) years. This record must include: name, address and telephone
number of the owner of the animal; date of vaccination; animal identification;
brand name of vaccine used, expiration date and producer of vaccine.
L.   Administering Vaccine:
   1.   It is prohibited for anyone to administer rabies vaccine to any animal
unless said vaccine is licensed for use in the particular animal species in
question. Exceptions to this include:
      a.   The vaccination of wolf-dog hybrids with a rabies vaccine approved
for dogs; or
      b.   Use at recognized nonprofit zoological parks or research
institutions; or
      c.   Special approval by the chief of police permitting the vaccination
in a particular species where the preponderance of scientific literature
suggests vaccine efficacy, and vaccine usage is determined to protect public
health and safety.
   2.   Animals vaccinated per these exceptions will still be considered as a
wild animal species if involved in a bite to a person, and will be handled
according to Oklahoma administrative code 310:599-3-4.
   3.   Rabies vaccines presently licensed are listed in the most current
compendium of animal rabies control published annually by the National
Association Of State Public Health Veterinarians.
M.   Disposal Of Remains: When a veterinarian provides the service of head
removal and preparation of any animal specimen for rabies testing, it shall be
the responsibility of the veterinarian to properly dispose of the body remains
of the rabies suspect animal in a manner that will prevent any potential future
exposure by any person or other animal to that animal's tissues. The
veterinarian is entitled to charge and collect the usual and customary fees for
the disposal service.
N.   Payment Of Fees And Costs:
   1.   Payment of daily boarding fees, or any costs incurred to the
veterinarian and/or animal control facility to comply with Oklahoma
administrative code 310:599-3-1 and 310:599-3-6 shall be the responsibility of
the person or entity owning, keeping or harboring the dog, cat or other
domestic animal.
   2.   Payment of fees incurred in the cost of euthanasia and submission of an
animal for rabies testing, or any other fees incurred to comply with Oklahoma
administrative code 310:599-3-4 or 310:599-3-6, shall be the responsibility of
the person or entity owning, keeping or harboring the animal. If the animal is
a stray dog or cat or wild animal without a custodian, the bite victim or their
legal guardian shall be responsible for payment.
O.   Citywide Quarantine: When an examination report gives a positive diagnosis
of rabies, the animal control officer may recommend to the city manager
citywide quarantine for a period of thirty (30) days; and upon the invoking of
such quarantine by the city manager, no animal shall be taken into the streets
during such period of quarantine. In the event there are additional positive
cases of rabies occurring during the period of the quarantine, such period of
quarantine may be extended for an additional period.
P.   Destruction During Quarantine: During such period of rabies quarantine as
herein mentioned, every animal bitten by an animal which has been adjudged
rabid shall be forthwith destroyed.
Q.   Killing Or Removing From City Prohibited: No person shall kill, or cause
to be killed, any rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to
rabies, or any animal biting a human, except as herein provided; nor remove the
same from the city limits without written permission from the animal control
officer.
R.   Surrender Of Carcass: The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies
shall, upon demand, be surrendered to the animal control officer. (2010 Code §
3-31; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 462, 5-9-2017; Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to:
A.   Unlawfully remove the metallic license tag without the owner's consent;
B.   Own, possess, keep or harbor any dog which by loud and frequent howling,
yelping or other noises, causes annoyances or disturbance to any of the
citizens of the city;
C.   Allow the yard, pen or other confine where a dog is kept to become filthy
or unsanitary;
D.   Interfere with, hinder or molest the animal control officer in the
performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to release any dog or cat in the
custody of the animal control officer, except as herein provided;
E.   Use for any dog a license, receipt or license tag issued for another dog
or cat;
F.   Fail or refuse to deliver to the animal control officer, or any person
properly designated by city commission, upon demand, any unlicensed dog,
dangerous or menacing animal, a dog suspected of rabies or found off the
premises of the owner and not under leash or under the control of a competent
person; or
G.   Abandon or desert any dog or cat, or permit a cat or dog to become a
stray. (2010 Code § 3-26; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10: MENACING BEHAVIOR BY ANIMALS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
5-7C-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
ANIMAL      Any penetration of the skin by the teeth or claws of an animal, but shall
BITE:       exclude scratches by the claws of dogs.
ANIMAL      The city of Perkins police department and any division of such department
CONTROL     authorized to oversee and regulate animal control.
AUTHORITY:
            Any individual employed, contracted with, or appointed by the animal control
ANIMAL      authority for the purpose of aiding the enforcement of this section or any other
CONTROL     law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals, control of animals, or
OFFICER:    seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes any state or local law
            enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in whole or in part include
            assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal.
            The act by any animal of approaching a domestic animal or a person in such a
ATTACK:     manner that hostile contact with the other animal or the person occurs or an act
            of aggression against a person or a domestic animal that requires the person or
            the other animal to take evasive action to prevent injury.
            Any animal:
            1.   That inflicts an injury upon a human as a result of an unprovoked attack
            regardless if the dangerous animal is on or off the property on which it is
DANGEROUS   harbored; or attempts to bite or attacks a human requiring that person to take
ANIMAL:     evasive action regardless of the location; or
            2.   That, when unprovoked, either kills, bites or attacks another animal off
            the property on which the dangerous animal is harbored; or
            3.   That is owned, trained, used, or harbored, primarily or in part, for the
            purpose of animal fighting.
            As used in this section means an animal that, unprovoked, charges an individual,
            growls, snarls, takes an aggressive stance, shows teeth or destroys property
MENACING    (e.g., a fence) in an attempt to get to a human or domesticated animal. An
BEHAVIOR:   animal cannot be considered as menacing if it is on its owner's property, unless
            its attempts to escape appear to be reasonably likely to be successful. Barking
            or being at-large does not of itself constitute menacing behavior.
            Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department possessing,
            harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having control or custody of an
OWNER:      animal, or in the case of a person under eighteen (18) years of age, that
            person's parent or legal guardian. This definition shall not apply to any animal
            shelter, veterinary clinic or kennel that is boarding animals belonging to
            another.
UNPROVOKED: An act of aggression towards an animal or human that occurs without apparent
            cause, reason, prompting or motivation. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
 
5-7C-10-2: MENACING OR DANGEROUS BEHAVIOR BY ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal owned, harbored,
possessed or maintained by him within the City to exhibit menacing or dangerous
behavior. No person who has an ownership interest in real property shall permit
another person to harbor, possess, or maintain on that property and within the
City limits any animal that is dangerous or menacing as defined in this
chapter, unless the Municipal Court orders the animal returned to the person
owning, harboring, possessing or maintaining the animal under restrictions
designated by the Municipal Court.
B.   An animal that is exhibiting menacing or dangerous behavior shall be
immediately impounded.
C.   An animal determined to be menacing or dangerous but ordered released
under specific conditions pursuant to section
5-7C-8 of this chapter shall be annually registered as a menacing or dangerous
animal through a process established by the Animal Control Authority for as
long as the cited owner is in possession of the menacing or dangerous animal.
The process shall include annual verification that the Court's conditions
continue to be met. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-3: ANIMALS CLASSIFIED BY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, possess or maintain an
animal which another governmental entity has determined to be dangerous. (Ord.
490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-4: EXCEPTIONS TO CLASSIFICATION:
A.   No animal, whether or not it was confined on its owner's property, shall
be classified as a dangerous animal because of injuries or death it has
inflicted upon another domestic animal that, at the time, was attacking the
animal.
B.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under
5-7C-10-2 that the biting, attacking or death was sustained by a person who:
   1.   At the time was committing or attempting to commit a willful trespass
or other tort upon the property occupied by the owner of the animal;
   2.   Was not a person lawfully present upon the property occupied by the
owner of the animal
   3.   Was attempting to or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal
or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the animal;
   4.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
C.   An animal owned by the police department or other law enforcement agency
which approaches a person in an apparent attitude of attack or which attacks or
bites a human upon command of the person in charge of the animal at the time of
the incident shall not, by reason of such incident, be deemed to be in
violation of
5-7C-10-2. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-5: EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN FACILITIES:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any veterinary hospital or
zoo or other licensed facility where such animals are adequately cared for with
due regard for public health and safety. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-6: CONFINEMENT:
An animal that is impounded at the time of an incident that resulted in the
owner being charged with harboring or possessing a menacing or dangerous
animal, or an animal impounded by order of the Municipal Court, shall be
confined in the City Animal Shelter pending the disposition of the animal.
Unless the animal is surrendered and relinquished by the owner to the City
Animal Shelter, such confinement shall be at the owner's expense unless the
Municipal Court does not find the animal to be a menacing or dangerous animal
at a disposition hearing held pursuant to
5-7C-10-7. Provided, however, the animal may be confined in a licensed
veterinary clinic or other licensed facility at the sole discretion of the
Municipal Court Judge. All fees for such confinement shall be the
responsibility of the owner. In no event shall the City be liable for costs or
fees charged by the private facility. Further, the City may assess to the owner
the cost of transporting the animal to the privately-operated licensed
facility. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-7: HEARING CONCERNING DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL:
A.   If an animal is confined pursuant to
5-7C-10-6, the Municipal Court shall issue to the owner a notice to appear and
notice of hearing concerning disposition of the animal. Such notice shall be
served by first class mail at the last known address of the owner. A
certificate of service of the notice or order shall be filed with the Municipal
Court in any case in which charges have been filed.
B.   If, after notice as set forth in this article, the owner does not appear
at the hearing, the animal shall be deemed surrendered and relinquished and
subject to disposition under the provisions of this chapter.
C.   The Municipal Court Judge, upon the presentation of all evidence at the
hearing and upon a finding that the animal is a menacing or dangerous animal,
may order the animal euthanized, confined in the City Animal Shelter until
further order of court, or confined under restrictions designated by the
Municipal Court, which may include those set forth in
5-7C-10-8, until further order of the Court. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-8: RESTRICTION GUIDELINES FOR MAINTAINING A MENACING OR DANGEROUS
ANIMAL:
The Court may order the owner of an animal found to be menacing or dangerous to
be in compliance with any requirements imposed by the Court. The Court shall
determine the time frame within which the owner must be in compliance. The
Court may use the following guidelines, but may impose lesser or additional
restrictions as the Court deems necessary.
A.   Confinement; Enclosure: Except as provided herein, the animal shall be
confined at all times to prevent it from escaping. Confinement may be within
the owner's residence or other building and shall provide access to a secure
outside enclosure.
   1.   Any enclosure used for the animal shall be of dimensions appropriate to
the size and needs of the animal.
   2.   The Court may require the enclosure to have a secure top, secure sides,
concrete footings around the perimeter to prevent the animal from escaping
over, through, or under the structure, and be kept locked at all times to
prevent unintentional opening of the enclosure.
   3.   The outside enclosure shall include suitable shelter and protection
from the elements, be cleaned regularly to maintain sanitation, and shall
provide adequate exercise room, light, and ventilation for the animal.
   4.   The Court may order that the enclosure be approved by the Animal
Control Authority prior to usage for confinement.
B.   No Contact With Other Animals Or Humans: The Court may prohibit the
menacing or dangerous animal from having contact with animals or humans other
than those that reside on the owner's property, and may restrict the ages of
people who may have contact with the animal.
C.   Muzzle: The Court may order a menacing or dangerous animal to wear a
properly-fitted muzzle when it is outside of the enclosure, except while the
animal is receiving medical care, to prevent it from biting humans or other
animals. Such muzzle shall not interfere with the animal's breathing.
D.   Restraint: The Court may order that whenever a menacing or dangerous
animal is outside of the enclosure, it shall be restrained by an adult capable
of controlling the animal and may designate the length and type of leash to be
used. If so ordered, when being transported, such animals shall be safely,
humanely and securely restrained within a vehicle or carrier capable of
preventing the animal from escaping or making physical contact with persons
outside the vehicle.
E.   Signs: The Court may order the owner of a menacing or dangerous animal to
display clearly visible warning signs on the property on which the menacing or
dangerous animal is maintained warning that a menacing or dangerous animal is
being harbored on such property, including posing entry points, the enclosure
in which the animal is maintained, and any other locations designated by the
Court. The Court may designate that the signs inform both children and adults
of the presence of the menacing or dangerous animal and may include a graphic
of a snarling dog and wording that warns of the presence of the menacing or
dangerous animal.
F.   Notification Of Escape Or Death Of Animal:
   1.   The Court may order the owner of a menacing or dangerous animal to
notify the Animal Control Authority immediately if the animal escapes from its
enclosure or restraint and is at large, or if it bites or attacks a person or
domestic animal, or if it dies.
   2.   If so ordered by the Court, in the event of the animal's death,
satisfactory proof of such death shall be provided to the Animal Welfare
Division within forty eight (48) hours of the animal's death. Satisfactory
proof shall be either verification from an animal shelter or veterinary
hospital that the animal was euthanized, or verification from an Animal Welfare
Officer that he or she has seen the dead body of the animal.
G.   Notification Of Change Of Address Or Ownership:
   1.   The Court may order the owner of a menacing or dangerous animal who
intends to change his/her address, or intends to move the animal, or intends to
sell, give away, or trade any animal classified as dangerous, to notify the
Animal Control Authority prior to such change of address, sale, transfer, or
trade. If so ordered, the owner shall provide the Animal Control Authority with
the name, address, and phone number of the person receiving the animal, as well
as the location at which the animal shall be maintained.
   2.   Any person obtaining an animal classified as menacing or dangerous
shall comply fully with the provisions of this division pertaining to the
maintenance, control, and ownership of a dangerous animal and shall further
comply with all orders of the Court regarding the maintenance of an animal
found to be dangerous.
H.   Micro-Chip And Spay Or Neuter: The Court may order the animal to be micro-
chipped and spayed or neutered before the animal is released from impoundment.
(Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-10-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of section
5-7C-10 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in
1-4-1 of this code. An animal determined to be a menacing or dangerous animal
shall be impounded and confined and, at the discretion of the Court, may be
euthanized or conditionally released pursuant to section
5-7C-10-8. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-11: IMPOUNDMENT:
A.   Authority: Any dog or cat found running at large in the city and not
having attached to its collar, choke chain or harness the vaccination tag and
city tag required herein shall be immediately impounded.
B.   Notification To Owner: Immediately upon impounding any dog or cat, the
animal control officer shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner
of the dog or cat so impounded, and inform the owner of the dog or cat so
impounded, and inform the owner of the conditions whereby he may regain custody
of the dog or cat.
C.   Disposition After Expiration Of Detention Period: Except as set forth in
subsection H of this section, after the expiration of a seventy-two (72) hour
detention period, including Sundays and holidays, the animal control officer
may humanely destroy, or as set forth in subsection D2 of this section, may
sell and transfer title to any dog or cat impounded under this section and not
redeemed by its owner. The animal control officer may transfer title to any dog
or cat held by the city at its animal shelter to a competent person after the
legal detention period herein referred to has expired and the dog or cat has
not been claimed by its owner. In the event of such transfer of title, it is
expressly understood that the new owner shall pay for each such animal's food
until it shall be removed from the city animal shelter. Removal of any dog or
cat from the city animal shelter under the provisions hereof shall be prima
facie evidence that said dog or cat is owned by the person so removing it.
D.   Redemption; Sale:
   1.   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of an impounded dog or
cat, except as hereinafter provided in the cases of certain dogs and cats, upon
compliance with the vaccination provisions of this article and the payment of
impoundment fees as set forth in subsection E of this section; provided, that
an impounded dog or cat shall not be released until it has been vaccinated
against rabies.
   2.   Any dog or cat impounded under subsection A of this section, and not
reclaimed by its owners within the seventy-two (72) hour detention period, may
be sold by the animal control officer for the amount of the impoundment fees
against such dog or cat to any person deemed to be a responsible or suitable
owner who will agree to comply with the provisions of this article and such
other regulations as may be fixed by the city.
   3.   Any dog or cat impounded under this provision of this article that is
not redeemed within the seventy-two (72) hour detention period, or is not sold
pursuant to these provisions, may be destroyed, provided such destruction is
carried out in conformity with the provisions of section
5-7D-6 of this chapter, unless such animal shall be suspected of having
"rabies", as defined in section
5-7C-8 of this article.
E.   Fees For Impoundment:
   1.   Any dog or cat impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as herein provided,
upon payment by the owner to the animal control officer a sum as established by
resolution of the city commission for each day the dog is kept in the shelter.
Such impoundment fees, after collection, shall be delivered by the animal
control officer to the city clerk.
   2.   Furthermore, any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by
ordinance shall pay the required license tax to the city clerk, and secure a
tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in charge of the
pound before the latter releases the dog. If a dog has been licensed but is not
wearing the tag, the person in charge of the pound shall require adequate
evidence of the proper licensing of the dog before releasing it.
F.   Records: It is the duty of the animal control officer to keep, or cause to
be kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of
all dogs and cats coming into his custody.
G.   Unlawful Removal: No person shall take from or attempt to take from the
animal shelter, or from any animal shelter property, any animal located therein
without first paying the fees prescribed by this chapter, and meeting the
vaccination requirements contained herein.
H.   Disaster Animals: Notwithstanding subsections A through G of this section,
any disaster animals shall be held pursuant to the provision of the Oklahoma
care and disposition of disaster animals act. "Disaster animals" means
domesticated companion animals that have become separated from an owner as the
result of a state declared emergency for a county or portion of a county
requiring companion animals' owners to leave their residences for more than
twenty-four (24) hours or a federally declared disaster requiring companion
animals' owners to leave their residences for more than twenty-four (24) hours.
Disaster animals include those found on private property or running at large,
as well as owner surrendered or relinquished companion animals. (Ord. 440, 12-
8-2015; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7C-12: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this article and to
enforce its provisions, the animal control officer, or any police officer, with
probable cause to believe that an ordinance violation is occurring, is
empowered to enter on premises upon which a dog or cat is kept or harbored and
to demand the exhibition by the owner of the tag or receipt for such dog or
cat. It is further provided that the animal control officer may enter the
premises where any dog is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and
demand to examine such dog and take possession of such dog when, in his
opinion, the dog requires humane treatment. (2010 Code § 3-27; amd. Ord. 490,
9-13-2022)
ARTICLE D. POUND
SECTION:
5-7D-1: Established
5-7D-2: Facility Requirements And Care
5-7D-3: Animals To Be Impounded
5-7D-4: Breaking Into Pound; Interference With Officer
5-7D-5: Fees For Impounding
5-7D-6: Method Of Disposal Of Animals
5-7D-1: ESTABLISHED:
A pound is hereby authorized under the jurisdiction of the chief of police. It
shall be under the immediate control of the animal control officer or of such
other person as may be officially designated. (2010 Code § 3-34; amd. Ord. 490,
9-13-2022)
5-7D-2: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS AND CARE:
A.   The city animal pound facility shall be constructed of nontoxic materials
and in a structurally sound design. Interior floors shall be smooth, of easily
cleanable construction and impervious to water. The facility shall be kept in
good repair and kept clean and sanitary at all times, so as to protect animals
from disease and injury.
B.   Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs for periods exceeding twenty-
four (24) hours should be provided with adequate space to prevent overcrowding
and to maintain normal exercise according to species. These facilities shall be
sufficiently temperature controlled and ventilated to provide for the animals'
comfort and health; provided, that such requirement that the pound be
temperature controlled shall only apply during the winter months.
C.   Sufficient lighting shall be provided by either artificial or natural
means.
D.   Outside housing shall be sufficient to protect animals from sunlight,
rain, snow or cold weather that may be detrimental to the animals' health.
E.   Adult animals shall be segregated by sex, except where otherwise indicated
for health or welfare; and any dangerous, menacing or quarantined animals shall
be removed and caged by themselves.
F.   Except where indicated for health and welfare, animals shall be provided
with clean, fresh, sufficient and wholesome food and water. Food and water
containers shall be kept clean. (2010 Code § 3-34; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7D-3: ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED:
A.   The animal control officer, police chief, other police officers, and such
other officer or employee as the governing body may authorize, shall take into
custody and impound any animal running at large in violation of any provision
of the ordinances of the municipality, and may enter upon the premises of the
owner or other private premises to take such animal into custody. If such
person, with reasonable effort, cannot catch a dangerous, menacing, diseased or
threatening dog or cat, illegally at large, then such person may kill the dog
or cat, either on or off private premises.
B.   Any other person may take such animal into custody and present it to the
authority in charge of the pound for impounding. The governing body, by motion
or resolution, may provide for the payment of rewards to private persons who
present such animals at the pound, when an appropriation exists for that
purpose. (2010 Code § 3-35; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7D-4: BREAKING INTO POUND; INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER:
No unauthorized person shall break, or attempt to break open the pound, or take
or let out any animal therefrom, or take or attempt to take from any officer or
employee of the municipality any animal taken into custody as provided by
ordinance, or in any manner interfere with or hinder such officer or employee
in the discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided by ordinance. (2010 Code § 3-36; amd. Ord.
490, 9-13-2022)
5-7D-5: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING:
A.   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon redemption,
shall be the same as those set by subsection
5-7C-11E of this chapter, plus the cost of vaccination if necessary.
B.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the fees to the city
clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge of the pound
before the latter releases the animal. (2010 Code § 3-37; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7D-6: METHOD OF DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS:
A.   Any dog, cat or any other animal held by or in the custody of a private or
public animal shelter or agency and not reclaimed by the owner, may be disposed
of only by:
   1.   Adoption as a pet in a suitable home;
   2.   Transfer to an adoption agency;
   3.   Delivery to a licensed educational or research institution in
accordance with the provisions of 4 Oklahoma Statutes sections 391 through 402;
or
   4.   Euthanasia by only one of the following methods:
      a.   Administration of denatured sodium pentobarbital administered in
compliance with 4 Oklahoma Statutes section 502;
      b.   Any other method approved by the animal industries services division
of the state department of agriculture which shall include current acceptable
euthanasia recommendations from the American Veterinary Medical Association,
with the exception of curariform derivative drugs. The following requirements
must be met to ensure the euthanasia agent is humane:
         (1)   The method should be as painless as possible to the animal as
determined by the best available medical and scientific knowledge and
technology;
         (2)   The animal should be kept as free from anxiety and fear as
possible;
         (3)   The technique should be:
            (A)   Simple enough to be used by relatively unskilled personnel;
            (B)   Legally available to all animal shelters and humane
societies;
            (C)   As mechanically simple and maintenance free as possible
within reasonable cost; and
            (D)   Physically safe for personnel using it.
B.   Death should be confirmed by cessation of vital signs. Professional
judgment should be used in consideration of the animal species and method of
euthanasia to determine the means of confirming death.
C.   Should the animal control officer not have proper facilities and trained
personnel, then and in that event such animal control officer, or his designee,
shall transport in a humane manner any animals which are to be euthanized to
the nearest municipality which has proper facilities and trained personnel, or
contract for euthanasia of such animals by a licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 420,
7-8-2014; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
ARTICLE E. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-7E-1: Cruelty Prohibited
5-7E-2: Poisoning Animals
5-7E-3: Encouraging Animals To Fight
5-7E-4: Animal Nuisance Prohibited
5-7E-5: Acting In Self Defense
5-7E-1: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
Any person who shall willfully or maliciously overdrive, overload, torture,
destroy or kill, or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate, any animal in
subjugation or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to
himself or to another, or deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or
shelter; or who shall cause, procure or permit any such animal to be so
overdriven, overloaded, tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or
injured, maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter;
or who shall willfully set on foot, instigate, engage in, or in any way further
any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce such cruelty,
shall be guilty under this section. Any officer finding an animal so maltreated
or abused shall cause the same to be taken care of and the charges therefor
shall be a lien upon such animal, to be collected thereon as upon a pledge or a
lien. (2010 Code § 3-39; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7E-2: POISONING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other animal, except
a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to expose poison so that the
same may be taken by such an animal. (2010 Code § 3-40; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7E-3: ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT:
It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal,
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a house, pit or other
place used for fights between animals. (2010 Code § 3-41; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-
2022)
5-7E-4: ANIMAL NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
A.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, harbor, possess
or keep any number of dogs or other animals in such a manner that such number
of dogs or other animals annoys, disturbs or endangers the peace, quiet,
comfort and repose of the citizens of the city.
B.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, harbor, possess
or keep a group of dogs or other animals in such a manner that the keeping or
harboring of the group of dogs or other animals endangers, harms or threatens
the health, safety or hygiene or others within the city.
C.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, harbor, possess
or keep a group of dogs or other animals that by their keeping disturb, either
by day or night, the peace and quiet of the city or any neighborhood, family or
person.
D.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, harbor, possess
or keep any poisonous and/or dangerous animals, including, but not limited to,
snakes, bears, cougars, lions, leopards, tigers, or any large, nondomestic
cats, wolves or wolf hybrids, coyotes or coyote hybrids.
E.   Those nuisances as described in this section are those that affect at the
same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the
individuals may be unequal. (2010 Code § 3-42; amd. Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
5-7E-5: ACTING IN SELF-DEFENSE:
Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without provocation, bites him or the other person, or attacks, or
attempts to bite or attack, him or the other person in such a manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed. (Ord. 490, 9-13-2022)
ARTICLE F. PENALTY
SECTION:
5-7F-1: Penalty
5-7F-1: PENALTY:
A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate, neglect or
refuse to comply with any regulation, requirement or provision contained within
this chapter.
B.   Each act or omission in violation of any provision hereof shall be deemed
a separate violation of such provision and for each calendar day during which
any violation continues, a separate violation shall be deemed to have been
committed.
C.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or refuses to
comply with any regulations, requirements or provisions of this chapter is
hereby deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, excluding costs. (2010 Code § 3-43; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
490, 9-13-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police
vehicles and ambulances.
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than twelve inches
(12") in diameter.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for transportation of persons for compensation.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALKS:
   A.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite side of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
uses of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   HIGHWAY OR STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words "highway" and "street" are synonymous
herein.
   INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
(2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   LANE ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, barricades, signals, markings
and devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority
of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   PARKING OR PARK: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   PERSON: Every natural person, firm or partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer, including reserve officers, of the municipal
police department, or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having expressed or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE OR ISLAND: An area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so
marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a safety zone or island.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway, or portion thereof, on which vehicle traffic
is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (2010 Code § 21-1)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED
SECTION:
6-2-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-2-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-101 et
seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. (2010 Code § 21-125; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6-3-1: Police Administration
6-3-2: Driver's Files To Be Maintained
6-3-3: Duty Of Police And Fire Departments
6-3-4: Required Obedience
6-3-5: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-3-6: Persons Propelling Push Carts, Riding Animals Or Driving Animal Drawn
Vehicles To Obey Traffic Regulations
6-3-7: Coasters, Roller Skates, Skateboards And Similar Devices Prohibited
6-3-8: Public Officers And Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
6-3-9: Persons Working On Streets; Exceptions
6-3-10: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-3-11: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-3-12: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-3-13: Report Of Accident
6-3-14: Duty To Give Information And Aid
6-3-1: POLICE ADMINISTRATION:
There is hereby established an administrative department entitled the police
department. The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such
number of patrolmen as may be provided for. (2010 Code § 21-2)
6-3-2: DRIVER'S FILES TO BE MAINTAINED:
The police department shall maintain a suitable record of all traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and complaints reported for each
driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned. (2010 Code § 21-3)
6-3-3: DUTY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
A.   It shall be the duty of the police department to enforce the street
traffic regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable
to street traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon said
department by this title and any other traffic ordinances of the city.
B.   Officers of the police department, or such officers as are assigned by the
chief of police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances; provided, that in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
C.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct
or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(2010 Code § 21-4)
6-3-4: REQUIRED OBEDIENCE:
A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or to fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
B.   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (2010 Code § 21-5)
6-3-5: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the commission may give
by motion or resolution, is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to
make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this city, and to
make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulations shall remain
in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
B.   The city manager may have traffic control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic. (2010 Code § 21-6)
6-3-6: PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS, RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL DRAWN
VEHICLES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Every person propelling any push cart or riding any animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(2010 Code § 21-7)
6-3-7: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND SIMILAR DEVICES PROHIBITED:
A.   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of a coaster, toy
vehicle, go-cart, golf cart or similar device, shall go upon any roadway,
except while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such
person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street
while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance of the city.
B.   No person shall ride any skateboard or similar device and go upon any
roadway, public thoroughfare or trafficway within the city.
C.   No person riding upon any skateboard or similar vehicle shall attach the
same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
D.   No person shall ride any skateboard or similar device upon a sidewalk
within a business district within the city. (2010 Code § 21-8)
6-3-8: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city, or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles, of
this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by state statute;
provided, that this title shall not apply to the military forces of the United
States and organizations of the national guard when performing any military
duty. (2010 Code § 21-9)
6-3-9: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair of
public utilities; provided, that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen; but
the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. (2010 Code § 21-10)
6-3-10: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
A.   The city is hereby authorized to close any highway, street, avenue, public
thoroughfare, or section thereof, within its respective jurisdiction to traffic
while such highway, street, avenue or public thoroughfare is under repair,
maintenance or construction and, in exercising such authority, shall erect or
cause to be erected traffic control devices and barricades to warn and notify
the public that said highway, street, avenue or public thoroughfare has been
closed to traffic.
B.   When any highway, street, avenue or other public thoroughfare has been
closed to traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and
traffic control devices or barricades have erected, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or around such traffic
control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter any closed area, except
that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged
in the construction, maintenance and repair of said highway, street, avenue or
public thoroughfare or the persons entering therein for the protection of lives
or property; and provided, further, that persons having their places of
residence or places of business may then travel, when possible to do so,
through such area at their own risk. (2010 Code § 21-11)
6-3-11: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
A.   The driver of any authorized vehicle, when responding to an emergency call
or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
   1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
   2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation;
   3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property;
   4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
C.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle is making use of audible and
visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
D.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2010 Code § 21-12)
6-3-12: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use
of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (2010 Code § 21-13)
6-3-13: REPORT OF ACCIDENT:
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident which occurs upon public
property, and which results in injury to or death of any person or property
damage to one vehicle or other property in excess of three hundred dollars
($300.00) shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give
notice of such accident to the police department if such accident occurs within
this city, and drivers of such vehicles shall remain at the scene of the
accident until the investigation is completed by an officer or officers of the
police department, except drivers of such vehicles who are injured may be moved
immediately for medical treatment. (2010 Code § 21-14)
6-3-14: DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND AID:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person, or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by
any person, shall give his correct name, address and registration number of the
vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon request, and if available, exhibit his
operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck or the driver, or any
person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person
injured in such accident any reasonable assistance, including the carrying or
the making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if requested by the
injured person; and if the vehicle is unattended, he shall leave his correct
name, address and registration number of the vehicle he is driving on the
vehicle so struck and damaged. (2010 Code § 21-15)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY
SECTION:
6-4-1: Penalty
6-4-2: Citation Tags
6-4-3: Failure To Comply With Citation Tags
6-4-4: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
6-4-5: When Complaint To Be Entered And Warrant Issued
6-4-6: Authority To Impound Vehicles; Release
6-4-1: PENALTY:
A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any act
forbidden, or fail to perform any act required, in this title.
B.   It is unlawful for a parent of a child or the guardian of a ward to
authorize or knowingly to permit any such child or ward to violate any
provision of this title.
C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to authorize or
knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or its name to be driven or
to stand or to be parked in violation of any provision of this title. (2010
Code § 21-119)
D.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title,
that does not involve a traffic related offense relating to speeding or
parking, or performs any unlawful act that does not involve a traffic offense
relating to speeding or parking, as defined in this title, or fails to perform
any act required in this title, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
E.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this title
that involves a traffic related offense relating to speeding or parking, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in subsection
1-4-1B of this code, excluding costs. (2010 Code § 21-119; amd. 2012 Code)
F.   Any person who violates the provisions of this title by exceeding the
posted speed limit by no more than ten (10) miles per hour upon any portion of
the national system of interstate and defense highways, federal aid primary
highways, and the state highway system which are located on the outskirts of
any municipality, as determined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-117, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) and shall have court costs imposed of not
more than fifteen dollars ($15.00). (2010 Code § 21-119)
6-4-2: CITATION TAGS:
Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons violating
provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or, in cases
where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of this
title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the violation
occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall indicate briefly the
charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the
violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within five (5) days, or such other reasonable time specified thereon. Nothing
contained herein shall abridge the power to arrest any violator and to take him
into custody, or to file a complaint against him, at any time. (2010 Code § 21-
120)
6-4-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION TAGS:
If a violator of any provisions of this title who has been given a citation tag
as provided in section
 6-4-2 of this chapter fails to appear in accordance with the instructions on
such tag, the court clerk shall send to the owner of the vehicle involved a
letter, or other written notice, informing him of the violation and warning him
to appear as directed and that, in the event such letter or notice is
disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a complaint will be filed and
warrant of arrest issued; provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge
the power to file a complaint against him prior to the expiration of such time.
(2010 Code § 21-121; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-4: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
B.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure of
giving a citation tag has been followed. (2010 Code § 21-122)
6-4-5: WHEN COMPLAINT TO BE ENTERED AND WARRANT ISSUED:
In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to such
person or attached to a vehicle, the chief of police shall have a complaint
entered against such person before the municipal judge, and the municipal judge
shall issue a warrant for his arrest. (2010 Code § 21-123)
6-4-6: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES; RELEASE:
A.   The police department is hereby authorized to impound a vehicle and remove
same to a garage or other place of safety under any of the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   When a vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway,
or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic.
   2.   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury or otherwise incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   3.   When a vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard to obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   4.   When a vehicle has been parked for more than one hour in excess of the
time allowed for parking in any place.
   5.   When a vehicle which has been involved in two (2) or more violations of
this title for which citation tags have been issued and not presented as
required, is parked in violation of any provision of this title.
   6.   When pursuant to section
 6-18-2 of this title, a duly signed verified complaint has been filed alleging
a violation of 6-18-1 of this title by reason of the stopping, standing or
parking of a vehicle in the places designed in subsections
 6-18-1A3 and A4 of this title.
   7.   When any vehicle is driven or operated upon any street, alley or
thoroughfare within the city, and when said vehicle is without a vehicle
license as required by Oklahoma Statutes and section
6-10-5 of this title, or when said vehicle fails to display the vehicle license
tag as required by law.
   8.   When the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
B.   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle as authorized in this section, and
officer knows or is able to ascertain from the registration records in the
vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof, such officer shall
immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to such owner of the
fact of such removal and the reasons therefor, and of the place to which such
vehicle has been moved. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a public
garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such garage.
It is especially provided that the owner of such vehicle shall be liable for
the cost of removal and storage of said vehicle.
C.   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle under this section and does not know
and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is
not able to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the
event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three (3)
days, then and in that event the officer shall immediately send or cause to be
sent written report of such removal by mail to the state department whose duty
it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of such notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice
shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time and place
from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored.
D.   A vehicle impounded as provided herein shall be delivered back to the
owner or other person to whom it may properly be delivered only after the
posting of any bond required or the payment of any fine or fines and costs as
may have been imposed and assessed for the violation or violations for which
such vehicle was impounded, and after the payment of the cost of removal and
storage of said vehicle. (2010 Code § 21-124)
CHAPTER 5
FINE SCHEDULES AND REQUIRED COURT APPEARANCES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Fine Schedules And Required Court Appearances
6-5-1: FINE SCHEDULES AND REQUIRED COURT APPEARANCES:
The municipal judge shall designate the specified offenses under the traffic
procedures of this city and the state traffic laws in respect to which payments
of fines may be accepted by the court clerk in satisfaction thereof, and shall
specify by suitable schedules the amount of such fines for first, second and
subsequent offenses, provided such fines are within the limits declared by law
or ordinance, and shall further specify what number of such offenses shall
require appearances before the municipal judge. (2010 Code § 21-114; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED EQUIPMENT; PROHIBITED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Vehicles Injurious To Streets, Obstructive Vehicles And Riding Animals
6-6-2: Equipment Required
6-6-3: All-Terrain Vehicles, Golf Carts, Recreational Off- Highway Vehicles,
And Utility Vehicles Permitted And Regulated
6-6-4: Minibikes Restricted
6-6-5: All-Terrain And Recreational Off Highway Vehicles Prohibited; Exceptions
1  (Rep. by Ord. 475, 5-14-2019)
6-6-6: Child Passenger Restraint System Required; Exemptions
6-6-7: Muffler Required; Cutouts Prohibited
6-6-8: Width, Height, Length, Weight And Load
6-6-9: Weight Restrictions
6-6-10: Maximum Height Of Vehicles
6-6-11: Permit For Oversized Vehicles
6-6-12: Inspection Of Vehicles; License Plates Required
6-6-13: Security Verification
6-6-14: Unattended Child Or Vulnerable Adult In Motor Vehicle
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-6-3 of this chapter.
6-6-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS, OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES AND RIDING ANIMALS:
A.   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
B.   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. The riding of
animals along Main Street between Freeman and Knipe Avenue is specifically
prohibited. (2010 Code § 21-16)
6-6-2: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated upon
the streets of the City shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat
belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to 49 CFR section 571.208.
B.   For the purposes of this section, "passenger car" shall mean "vehicle" as
defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1102. "Passenger car" shall include the
passenger compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles.
"Passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational
vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. "Passenger car" shall not include
a vehicle used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant
to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
C.   This section shall not apply to any person who possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this State that the person is unable
to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons, provided the issuance of
such verification by a physician in good faith shall not give rise to, nor
shall such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or
otherwise, to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety
seat belt system.
D.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
E.   Fine and court costs for violating the provisions of this section shall
not exceed twenty dollars ($20.00). (2010 Code § 21-17)
6-6-3: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, GOLF CARTS, RECREATIONAL OFF- HIGHWAY VEHICLES,
AND UTILITY VEHICLES PERMITTED AND REGULATED:
A.   Every vehicle operated upon the City streets shall be equipped as required
by law; and it shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle upon a City
street that is not equipped as required by the Statutes of the State of
Oklahoma. It shall also be unlawful to fail to use such equipment in the manner
required by the Statutes of the State of Oklahoma, to use such equipment in a
manner prohibited by said statutes, or to operate and drive a vehicle upon the
City streets which has equipment prohibited by the Oklahoma State Statutes.
B.   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for the owner of any
vehicle to permit said vehicle to be driven or operated upon the streets of
this City when said vehicle is equipped in violation of the provisions of this
section.
C.   All-terrain vehicle is a vehicle manufactured and used exclusively for
off-highway use, traveling on four (4) or more non-highway tires, having a seat
designed to be straddled by the operator, and which is steered by the use of
handlebars.
D.   Golf cart is an electric or gasoline powered vehicle of not more than
twenty (20) horsepower, having three (3) or more wheels for operation and
seating not more than two (2) persons.
E.   Recreational off-highway vehicle is a vehicle manufactured and used
exclusively for off-highway use, traveling on four (4) or more non-highway
tires, having non-straddle seating and which is steered by a steering wheel.
F.   Utility vehicle is a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine,
manufactured and used exclusively for off- highway use, equipped with seating
for two (2) or more people and a steering wheel, traveling on four (4) or more
wheels.
G.   All-terrain vehicles, golf carts, recreational off-highway vehicles, and
utility vehicles may be operated on City streets under the following conditions
and restrictions.
   1.   Operation shall occur only during hours of daylight.
   2.   No more than the number of passengers permitted by the manufacturer's
design specifications shall be within, upon or riding in such vehicle.
   3.   Such vehicle shall be equipped with a warning flag of not less than one
square foot in size which warning flag shall extend a minimum of twelve inches
(12") above the top of such vehicle and which warning flag shall further be
visible to both on-coming and following vehicles.
   4.   Any such vehicle operated on City streets shall be operated on
residential streets only and further shall be operated on the most direct route
between the point of departure and the point of destination.
   5.   No such vehicles shall at any time be operated or driven on a State
highway in the City. Crossing of State highway in such vehicle is permitted
only at intersections.
   6.   Any such vehicle operated on City streets shall at all times be
operated by a person holding a current and valid driver's license, proof of
insurance, and a current and valid permit issued by the City. Such vehicles
must be inspected and registered annually with the Police Department. An annual
registration fee of five dollars ($5.00) will be charged to cover the costs of
implementing and maintaining the permit. Owners must complete a registration
form and the City Police Department will issue a certification sticker to be
attached to the driver's side of the vehicle.
H.   It shall be unlawful for a person less than eighteen (18) years of age to
operate or to be carried as a passenger upon an all-terrain vehicle unless the
person wears a crash helmet of a type which complies with standards established
by 49 CFR, section 571.218.
I.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any all-terrain vehicle, golf
cart, recreational off-highway vehicle, or utility vehicle to carry a passenger
unless such vehicle has been specifically designed by the manufacturer to carry
passengers in addition to the operator. (Ord. 475, 5-14-2019)
6-6-4: MINIBIKES RESTRICTED:
Self-propelled or motor-driven cycles, known and commonly referred to as
"minibikes" and other similar trade names, shall be prohibited from operating
on the streets and highways of this City, except when used in a parade. (Ord.
475, 5-14-2019)
6-6-5: ALL-TERRAIN AND RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS
1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 475, 5-14-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
   6-6-3 of this chapter.
6-6-6: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways shall provide for
the protection of said child by properly using a child passenger restraint
system as follows:
   1.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear facing until the child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child
reaches the weight or height limit of the rear facing child passenger restraint
system as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
   2.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8) years
of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height, shall be
properly secured in either a child passenger restraint system or child booster
seat.
For purposes of this section "child passenger restraint system" means an infant
or child passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by
49 CFR section 571.213.
B.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than four feet nine
inches (4'9") in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other motor
vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state or
federal laws;
   2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
   3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
   4.   The transportation of children who, for medical reasons, are unable to
be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
   5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
paragraph, back seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a
vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight
requirements of this paragraph if, at the request of any law enforcement
officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a
written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child
weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
D.   Any person convicted of violating subsection A of this section shall be
punished by a fine as set by resolution and shall pay all court costs thereof.
Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the department of public safety
restricted revolving fund and used by the Oklahoma highway safety office to
promote the use of child passenger restraint systems. This fine shall be
suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan
of a child passenger restraint system. (Ord. 437, 11-10-2015)
6-6-7: MUFFLER REQUIRED; CUTOUTS PROHIBITED:
Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and
annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout or similar devices
upon a motor vehicle operated within the city. No person shall modify the
exhaust system of a motor vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase
the noise or sound emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle. (2010 Code § 21-18)
6-6-8: WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by the state
law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the
chief of police. (2010 Code § 21-19)
6-6-9: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The city manager shall prepare and maintain a schedule of those streets, or
portions thereof, upon which weight restrictions have been designated. The
schedule shall reflect the gross weight above which vehicles are prohibited,
the type of vehicles, if any, which are subject to the restriction and any
other weight restrictions that are effective. The schedule shall be designated
as "Schedule I. Weight Restrictions". The original of schedule I shall be kept
on file in the office of the city clerk. (2010 Code § 21-19.1)
6-6-10: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided by this title, no person shall drive or move, or
cause or permit to be driven or moved, upon any street, whether paved or
otherwise, any vehicle, unladen or with load, which exceeds a height of fifteen
and one-half feet (151/2'). (2010 Code § 21-19.2)
6-6-11: PERMIT FOR OVERSIZED VEHICLES:
A.   The city manager shall have authority to issue, withhold or revoke permits
for temporary or emergency operation of vehicles or combinations of vehicles in
excess of fifteen and one-half feet (151/2') in height. Special permits shall
prescribe the hours of the day when valid, the streets to be used, the route to
be taken, and any other conditions that the city manager may consider proper
under the circumstances.
B.   Application for such permits shall be made to the city manager a
reasonable time in advance of the expected time of movement of such vehicles.
In emergencies affecting the safety of persons or property, permits may be
issued for immediate movement.
C.   The city manager shall make decisions pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection which are consistent with the public health, safety and welfare.
(2010 Code § 21-19.3)
6-6-12: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES; LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED:
A.   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
B.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on any road, street or
highway in this city any motor vehicle, including motorcycles, trailers,
semitrailers or pole trailers, which are licensed by the Oklahoma tax
commission, or any combination thereof, unless said vehicle is bearing a valid
official inspection station license by the department of public safety of the
state; provided, however, the provisions of this section shall not apply to a
house trailer which requires a permit to be moved upon the highways of this
state.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or move, or for the
owner to cause or permit to be driven, operated or moved upon the roads,
streets or highways of the city, any vehicle which does not have current and
proper license plates as issued by the state or on which all taxes due said
state have not been paid. (2010 Code § 21-20)
6-6-13: SECURITY VERIFICATION:
A.   1. An owner or operator who fails to comply with the compulsory insurance
law, or who fails to produce for inspection a valid and current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department of
public safety upon request of any police officer, representative of the
department of public safety or other authorized person, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as set by
resolution, and, in addition thereto, shall be subject to suspension of the
driving privilege of the person in accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-605; provided, that if a requesting law enforcement officer verifies valid
and current security and compliance with the compulsory insurance law through
the online verification system, there shall be no violation of the compulsory
insurance law and no citation shall be issued. Upon issuing a citation under
this paragraph, the law enforcement officer issuing the citation may:
      a.   Seize the vehicle being operated by the person and cause the vehicle
to be towed and stored as provided by 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 955, if the
officer has probable cause to believe that the vehicle is not insured as
required by the compulsory insurance law of this state, or
      b.   Seize the license plate of the vehicle and issue the citation to the
vehicle operator, provided that the vehicle is in a drivable condition at the
time of issuing the citation.
A copy of the citation retained by the owner or operator of the vehicle shall
serve as the temporary license plate of the vehicle for up to ten (10) calendar
days after the issuance of the citation. After ten (10) calendar days, the
vehicle shall not be used until the vehicle operator or owner completes the
requirements to retrieve the license plate. After the issuance of the citation,
the police department shall, within three (3) days, deposit the license plate
and deliver a copy of the citation to the Payne County sheriff's office.
If the operator of the vehicle produces what appears to be a valid security
verification form and the officer is unable to confirm compliance through the
online verification system or noncompliance by a subsequent investigation, the
officer shall be prohibited from seizing the license plate or seizing the
vehicle and causing such vehicle to be towed and stored. Further, no vehicle
shall be seized and towed under the provisions of this paragraph if the vehicle
is displaying a temporary license plate that has not expired pursuant to the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1137.1 and 1137.3.
   2.   An owner other than an owner of an antique or a classic automobile as
defined by the Oklahoma tax commission who files an affidavit that a vehicle
shall not be driven upon the public highways or public streets, pursuant to 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 7-607, who drives or permits the driving of the
vehicle upon the public highways or public streets, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine as set by
resolution, and in addition thereto, shall be subject to suspension of the
driving privilege of the person in accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-605.
B.   A sentence imposed for any violation of the compulsory insurance law may
be suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
C.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security verification
form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department of public
safety reflecting liability coverage for the person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of the charge. If proof of
security verification is presented to the court by no later than the business
day preceding the first scheduled court appearance date, the dismissal shall be
without payment of court costs. The court may access information from the
online verification system to confirm liability coverage. The court shall not
dismiss the fine unless proof that liability coverage for the person was in
force at the time of the alleged offense is presented to the court.
D.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court clerk shall forward an
abstract to the department of public safety within five (5) days reflecting the
action taken by the court.
E.   For purposes of this section, "court" means any court in this state. (Ord.
447, 12-13-2016)
6-6-14: UNATTENDED CHILD OR VULNERABLE ADULT IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
A.   Definitions:
   MOTOR VEHICLE: The same as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-134.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR A CHILD: A custodial parent or legal guardian of a
child, or a person who has been directed or authorized to supervise a child by
that child's custodial parent or legal guardian.
   UNATTENDED: Beyond a person's direct ability to care for or come to the aid
of the unaccompanied person.
B.   Prohibition: A person responsible for a child who is six (6) years of age
or younger, or a caretaker of a vulnerable adult, as defined by 43A Oklahoma
Statutes section 10-103, shall not leave that child or vulnerable adult
unattended in a motor vehicle if the conditions, including, but not limited to,
extreme weather, inadequate ventilation, or hazardous or malfunctioning
components within the vehicle present a risk to the health or safety of the
unattended child or vulnerable adult.
C.   Exception: It shall not be considered a violation of this section if the
child or vulnerable adult is accompanied in the motor vehicle by a person at
least twelve (12) years of age who is not mentally incompetent, as defined by
43A Oklahoma Statutes section 1-103.
D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by:
   1.   A fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) upon a first conviction;
   2.   A fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and ordered to
perform community service of not less than fifty (50) hours upon a second
conviction; and
   3.   A fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) upon a third or
subsequent conviction, and the full record of that person's convictions of the
violations of this section shall be submitted to the department of human
services for evaluation. (2010 Code § 21-17.5)
E.   Penalty Upon Alcohol Consumption: Any person convicted of violating the
provisions of this section who has left a child or vulnerable adult unattended
in a motor vehicle on the premises of any establishment which holds any license
for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises pursuant to
37 Oklahoma Statutes section 521, and who has consumed any alcoholic beverage
during the period of time the child or vulnerable adult has been unattended,
shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 21-17.5; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
6-7-2: Manual And Specifications For Traffic Control Devices
6-7-3: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
6-7-4: When Traffic Signs Required For Enforcement Purposes
6-7-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
6-7-6: Flashing Signals
6-7-7: Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
6-7-8: Interference With Devices, Railroad Signs Or Signals
6-7-9: City To Designate Crosswalks And Establish Safety Zones
6-7-10: Authority To Establish Play Streets
6-7-11: Play Streets Designated
6-7-12: Traffic Lanes
6-7-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The city shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs, signals and
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city to make
effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may have placed and maintained
such additional traffic control signs, signals and devices as it may deem
necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under
state law, or to guide or warn traffic. (2010 Code § 21-22)
6-7-2: MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state highway department. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be
uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this chapter shall be official traffic control devices. (2010 Code § 21-23)
6-7-3: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter or law, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (2010 Code § 21-24)
6-7-4: WHEN TRAFFIC SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (2010 Code § 21-25)
6-7-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words
"GO", "CAUTION" or "STOP", or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used, and
said terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
A.   Green alone or "GO":
   1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left, unless a sign or barricade at such place prohibits either
such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
   2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
B.   Steady yellow alone:
   1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or
"STOP" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "STOP"
signal is exhibited.
   2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
C.   Steady red alone or "STOP":
   1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until green or "GO" is
shown alone, or while the signal is still red, vehicular traffic may turn right
from the appropriate lane after coming to the required stop, unless otherwise
provided. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully using the intersection.
   2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he can
do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
D.   Steady red with green arrow:
   1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk, and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   2.   Traffic, except pedestrians, facing a green arrow, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the time, and any such movement shall
only be made from the lane that has lawfully been designated for such turning
movement and which shall be available for such turn.
   3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he can
do so safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
E.   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained
at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; but, in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. (2010 Code § 21-26)
6-7-6: FLASHING SIGNALS:
A.   Obedience Required: Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal
is used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular
traffic as follows:
   1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashing, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
B.   Exception: This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (2010
Code § 21-27)
6-7-7: DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway
an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal; provided, however, that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to highways
of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be
mistaken for official signs.
B.   Every such placed sign, signal, marking or device is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance. (2010 Code § 21-28)
6-7-8: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, RAILROADS SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, or any
railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (2010 Code § 21-29)
6-7-9: CITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES:
The city is hereby authorized to designate and maintain, by appropriate
devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections where in its opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the roadway, and at such other places as it may deem necessary for the
protection of pedestrians. (2010 Code § 21-30)
6-7-10: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS:
The city commission, by motion or resolution, shall have authority to declare
any street or part thereof a play street and to have placed appropriate signs
or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. (2010
Code § 21-31)
6-7-11: PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as
a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion
thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area; and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (2010 Code § 21-31.1)
6-7-12: TRAFFIC LANES:
A.   The city commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to have
traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment
of traffic is necessary.
B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise as authorized by
ordinance. (2010 Code § 21-32)
CHAPTER 8
DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROAD
SECTION:
6-8-1: Drive On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
6-8-2: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction
6-8-3: Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left
6-8-4: When Overtaking On The Right Is Permitted
6-8-5: Further Limitations On Driving To Left Of Center Of Roadway
6-8-6: No Passing Zones
6-8-7: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
6-8-8: Following Too Closely
6-8-1: DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except as follows:
   1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
   2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
   3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
   4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of
traffic at the time and place, and under the conditions then existing, shall be
driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (2010 Code § 21-33)
6-8-2: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right; and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (2010 Code §
21-33.1)
6-8-3: OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again
drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken
vehicle.
B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the driver
of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the overtaking
vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until
completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
C.   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, which requires moving his vehicle from one lane of traffic to
another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and shall
proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical device.
(2010 Code § 21-34)
6-8-4: WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED:
A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
   1.   When a vehicle overtaken is making or about to make left hand turn;
   2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movements in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (2010 Code § 21-35)
6-8-5: FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY:
A.   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
   1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or up on a curve in the highway
where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
   2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing;
   3.   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred feet
(100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
B.   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway. (2010
Code § 21-36)
6-8-6: NO PASSING ZONES:
A.   The Oklahoma department of highways, as regards state and federal
highways, and the city as regards all other streets, are hereby authorized to
determine those portions of a highway where overtaking and passing or driving
to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, have the beginning and end of
such zones indicated; and when such signs or markings are in place and clearly
visible to an ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey
the directions thereof.
B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as set
forth in subsection A of this section, no driver shall at any time drive to the
left side of the roadway within such no passing zone or on the left side of
pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone throughout its length.
(2010 Code § 21-37)
6-8-7: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all other consistent herewith,
shall apply:
A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes or more, it shall be
a violation for any vehicle to be driven in any center lane, or in any lane
marked and designated exclusively as a turn lane, except when in direct
preparation for a turn from the said traffic lane. (2010 Code § 21-38)
6-8-8: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon the condition of the highway. (2010 Code § 21-39)
CHAPTER 9
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Basic Rule And Maximum Limits
6-9-1: BASIC RULE AND MAXIMUM LIMITS:
A.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway, and any
other condition then existing; and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
B.   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed or
compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in this
chapter or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful
speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway, street, avenue or
public thoroughfare at a speed in excess of such maximum limits, as follows:
   1.   In those school zones in which a school zone flashing warning light may
have been installed, the speed limit may be established by the city commission
and shall be in effect only during those times that the flashing warning lights
are activated; and further provided, that the city has placed appropriate
flashing signs or signals on all such streets adjacent to such school zones.
   2.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour on other streets and on streets
adjacent to schools at other times than that specified in subsection B1 of this
section; provided, that the city may reduce or increase the speed limit, and
when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on all such streets or parts
of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (2010 Code § 21-40)
(Ord. 504, 8-13-2024)
CHAPTER 10
RECKLESS, INATTENTIVE DRIVING; DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED; DRIVER'S LICENSE
SECTION:
6-10-1: Reckless Driving
6-10-2: Inattentive Driving
6-10-3: Persons Under The Influence Of Alcohol Or Other Intoxicating Substance,
Or Combination Thereof; Penalty
6-10-4: Operation Of Motor Vehicle While Impaired; Penalties
6-10-5: Driver's License Required
6-10-6: Unlawful Use Of Cellular Telephone
6-10-7: Texting While Driving
6-10-1: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle upon highways, turnpikes and public parking
lots throughout the city in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this title. (2010 Code §
21-41)
6-10-2: INATTENTIVE DRIVING:
A.   Any person who drives any vehicle or who engages in any activity or does
any act while driving that interferes with the safe operation and control of
his vehicle, or who continues to operate his vehicle when any other person
riding therein or thereon engages in any activity or does any act which
interferes with his operation thereof, is guilty of inattentive driving.
B.   Any person who drives any vehicle in a manner without due and proper
regard for the safety of person or property of others is guilty of inattentive
driving under the provisions of this section.
C.   Any driver of a motor vehicle which collides with another vehicle or with
any person or property because of driving error or inattention is guilty of
inattentive driving in violation of this section.
D.   Any driver of a motor vehicle who attempts to elude a police officer or
any other lawful official is guilty of inattentive driving under the provisions
of this section. (2010 Code § 21-42)
6-10-3: PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR OTHER INTOXICATING SUBSTANCE,
OR COMBINATION THEREOF; PENALTY:
A.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any person
to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle within
the state, whether upon public roads, highways, streets, turnpikes, other
public places or upon any private road, street, alley or lane which provides
access to one or more single- or multi-family dwellings, who:
   1.   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 756, of eight-hundredths (0.08) or more at the time of a test
of such person's blood or breath administered within two (2) hours after the
arrest of such person;
   2.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
   3.   Is under the influence of any intoxicating substance other than alcohol
which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating a motor
vehicle; or
   4.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other intoxicating
substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating
a motor vehicle.
B.   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is or
has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous substance
or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating this section. (Ord. 324A, 2-13-2007)
C.   Any person who is convicted of violating subsection A of this section
shall be ordered to participate in, prior to sentencing, an alcohol and drug
substance abuse evaluation and assessment program offered by a certified
assessment agency or certified assessor for the purpose of evaluating and
assessing the receptivity to treatment and prognosis of the person. The court
shall order the person to reimburse the agency or assessor for the evaluation
and assessment. The fee for an evaluation and assessment shall be the amount
provided in 43A Oklahoma Statutes section 3-460C. The agency or assessor shall,
within seventy two (72) hours from the time the person is evaluated and
assessed, submit a written report to the court for the purpose of assisting the
court in its final sentencing determination. If such report indicates that the
evaluation and assessment shows that the defendant would benefit from a ten
(10) hour or twenty four (24) hour alcohol and drug substance abuse course or a
treatment program, or both, the court shall, as a condition of any sentence
imposed, require the person to follow all recommendations identified by the
evaluation and assessment and ordered by the court. Such evaluation and
assessment report shall be handled in a manner which will keep such report
confidential from review by the general public. (Ord. 378, 11-9-2010)
D.   In any case in which a defendant is charged with a second or subsequent
driving under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substance offense,
the charge shall be presented to the Payne County district attorney and filed
with the district court of Payne County.
E.   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this
section may be required by the court to attend a victims impact panel program,
and to pay a fee, not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than twenty
five dollars ($25.00), to the program to offset the cost of participation by
the defendant, as approved by the court, if, in the opinion of the court, the
defendant has the ability to pay such fee. (Ord. 324A, 2-13-2007)
6-10-4: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE IMPAIRED; PENALTIES:
A.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his ability to operate such
motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol, or any other substance
other than alcohol, which is capable of being ingested, inhaled, injected or
absorbed into the human body and is capable of adversely affecting the central
nervous system, vision, hearing or other sensory or motor functions, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 324A, 2-13-2007; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of the provisions of this
section or pleading guilty or nolo contendere for a violation of any provision
of this section shall be ordered to participate in, prior to sentencing, an
alcohol and drug assessment and evaluation by an assessment agency or
assessment personnel certified by the department of mental health and substance
abuse services for the purpose of evaluating the receptivity to treatment and
prognosis of the person. The court shall order the person to reimburse the
agency or assessor for the assessment and evaluation. If such report indicates
that the evaluation shows that the defendant would benefit from a ten (10) hour
or twenty four (24) hour alcohol and drug substance abuse course or a treatment
program, or both, the court shall, as a condition of any sentence imposed,
including a deferred sentence and a suspended sentence, require the person to
follow all recommendations identified by the assessment and evaluation and
ordered by the court. Any evaluation report submitted to the court pursuant to
this subsection shall be handled in a manner which will keep such report
confidential from the general public review. Nothing contained in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit the court from ordering judgment and
sentence and any other sanction authorized by law for failure or refusal to
comply with an order of the court. (Ord. 324A, 2-13-2007)
6-10-5: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
A.   No person, except those expressly exempted by 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
6-102, shall drive any motor vehicle upon any street, alley, roadway or highway
within the city, unless such person has valid color photo Oklahoma license as
an operator, commercial chauffeur or chauffeur under the provisions of Oklahoma
state statutes; provided, further, that this section shall be intended to
conform and be interpreted consistent with the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 6-101. It is also further declared to be the express intention
of the city commission that this section be interpreted and defined in
compliance with the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 6-101 through
6-112, as amended.
   1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle as a chauffeur unless he or she
holds a valid chauffeur's license.
   2.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle as a common carrier of persons
or property unless he holds a valid commercial chauffeur's license.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or cause or permit to be
displayed, or have in his possession any canceled, revoked, suspended,
fictitious, photostatic or fraudulently altered operator's or chauffeur's
license.
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to lend his operator's or chauffeur's
license to any other person or knowingly permit the use thereof by another.
D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or represent as one's own
any operator's or chauffeur's license not issued to him. (2010 Code § 21-44)
E.   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public roads, streets,
highways, turnpikes or other public places at a time when the person's
privilege to do so is canceled, denied, suspended or revoked, or at a time when
the person is disqualified from so doing shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine:
   1.   For a first conviction, of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); and
   2.   For a second conviction, of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 470, 10-9-2018)
6-10-6: UNLAWFUL USE OF CELLULAR TELEPHONE:
A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
voice activated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle.
   PUBLIC TRANSIT DRIVER: 1. Any operator of a public transit vehicle owned and
operated by the State of Oklahoma, any public trust authority, county,
municipality, town or city within this State;
   2.   Any operator of a school bus or multipassenger motor vehicle owned and
approved to operate by the State Department of Education or any school district
within this State; or
   3.   Any operator, conductor or driver of a locomotive engine, railway car
or train of cars, unless such railroad is regulated by the Federal Railroad
Administration.
B.   Use Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a public transit driver to
operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway while using a cellular
telephone or electronic communication device to write, send or read a text
based communication while the motor vehicle is in motion. (Ord. 379, 11-9-2010)
C.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection B of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 379, 11-9-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
6-10-7: TEXTING WHILE DRIVING:
A.   Definitions:
   CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ WITH RESPECT TO A TEXT MESSAGE: The manual entry,
sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle, a
voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or read
a text message without the use of either hand except to activate, deactivate or
initiate a feature or function, or an ignition interlock device that has been
installed on a motor vehicle.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
on any street or highway while using a handheld electronic communication device
to manually compose, send or read an electronic text message while the motor
vehicle is in motion.
C.   Fine: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection B of this
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine set by resolution.
D.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection B of this section shall not apply
if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation: 1) an emergency response operator;
2) a hospital, physician's office or health clinic; 3) a provider of ambulance
services; 4) a provider of firefighting services; or 5) a law enforcement
agency. (Ord. 448, 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNALS ON TURNING AND STOPPING; TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersection
6-11-2: Authority To Place Restricted Turn Signs
6-11-3: Obedience To No Turn Signs
6-11-4: Limitations On Turning Around
6-11-5: Turning Movements And Required Signals
6-11-6: Signals By Hand Or Arm Or Signal Lamps
6-11-7: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
6-11-8: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-11-1: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION:
The driver shall do as follows:
A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for the right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
B.   Left Turns: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at an
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle. After entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to
leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered. Whenever practicable, when leaving a two-way roadway, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection. (2010 Code § 21-45)
6-11-2: AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS:
The city commission, by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine
those intersections at which drivers of vehicle shall not make a right, left,
or U-turn, and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making
of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted
at other hours; in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the
signs, or they may be removed when such turns are permitted. (2010 Code § 21-
46)
6-11-3: OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign. (2010 Code § 21-47)
6-11-4: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND:
A.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in the city except at an intersection;
and furthermore, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to make such a turn
at any intersection:
   1.   Where traffic control signals are installed;
   2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the officer's
direction; or
   3.   Where an official no U-turn sign has been placed and is maintained.
B.   When otherwise permitted, a U-turn may be made only when it can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
C.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn that vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite or different direction upon the street when such turn is made for
the purpose of parking said vehicle in a lawfully marked parking space on the
opposite side of the street. (2010 Code § 21-48)
6-11-5: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
A.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is in
proper position upon the roadway as required by this chapter, or turn a vehicle
to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct
course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can
be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without
giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be given
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the vehicle before turning.
C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the driver
of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give such
signal. (2010 Code § 21-49)
6-11-6: SIGNALS BY HAND OR ARM OR SIGNAL LAMPS:
A.   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by
means of the hand or arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided in
subsection B of this section.
B.   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signals shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance for the center of the
top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body, cab or load of
such motor vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the distance for
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement shall apply to
any single vehicle, and also to any combination of vehicles. (2010 Code § 21-
50)
6-11-7: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
A.   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally.
B.   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
C.   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward. (2010 Code § 21-
51)
6-11-8: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of alleys
so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only
in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are
erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (2010 Code § 21-52)
CHAPTER 12
RIGHT OF WAY; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS; RAILROAD CROSSINGS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection
6-12-2: Stop Signs And Yield Signs
6-12-3: Vehicle Entering Stop Intersection
6-12-4: Vehicle Entering Yield Intersection
6-12-5: Two Or More Vehicles Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signal
6-12-6: Emerging From Alley, Driveway, Parking Lot Or Building
6-12-7: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
6-12-1: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
A.   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection shall yield the right of
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different highway;
provided, that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has
entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
B.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section are
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter. (2010
Code § 21-53)
D.   The driver of a vehicle within any intersection intending to turn left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard; but said driver having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(2010 Code § 21-54)
6-12-2: STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS:
A.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "STOP" in letters not less than eight
inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "YIELD" in letters
not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every yield sign
shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or by a
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements in the face of the sign.
B.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (2010 Code § 21-55)
6-12-3: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
B.   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching too closely on said highway as to constitute as immediate hazard;
but said driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (2010 Code § 21-56)
6-12-4: VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (2010
Code § 21-57)
6-12-5: TWO OR MORE VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL:
Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals on two (2) or more intersecting cross streets, and are approaching so
as to enter the intersection at the same time, where each vehicle is required
to stop, the vehicles coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where
each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have
the right of way. Where each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle
coming from the right shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is
required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one slowing or
taking caution shall have the right of way. Where one vehicle is required to
slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have
the right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not so entered the
intersection. (2010 Code § 21-59)
6-12-6: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, PARKING LOT OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, public or private driveway,
parking lot or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving
onto a sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and
upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway. (2010 Code § 21-59)
6-12-7: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (2010 Code § 21-60)
CHAPTER 13
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
6-13-2: Crossing Fire Hoses
6-13-3: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Processions
6-13-4: Drivers In A Procession
6-13-5: Funeral Processions To Be Identified
6-13-6: When Permits Required For Parades Or Processions
6-13-7: Vehicles Shall Not Be Driven On Sidewalks
6-13-8: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-13-9: Limitations On Backing
6-13-10: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-13-11: Overtaking Stopped School Bus Prohibited
6-13-12: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanisms
6-13-13: Clinging To Vehicles
6-13-14: Controlled Access
6-13-15: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
6-13-16: Unlawful Riding
6-13-17: Driving Through Safety Zone Prohibited
6-13-18: Dangerous Objects In Streets
6-13-19: Motor Scooters
6-13-1: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED:
A.   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
B.   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall not
follow any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any location on a
highway where an emergency exists which would interfere with the free movement
of authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the highway at that
location. For the purpose of this section, the definition of any emergency
shall include traffic accidents, airplane accidents, disasters, explosions,
civil disturbances and, without limitation by the foregoing, any other related
circumstances which tend to cause traffic congestion. (2010 Code § 21-61)
6-13-2: CROSSING FIRE HOSES:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire,
without consent of the fire department official in command. (2010 Code § 21-62)
6-13-3: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS:
No driver of any motor vehicle, or any other moving object, shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized processions while they
are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required
in this chapter. (2010 Code § 21-63)
6-13-4: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right
hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practicable and safe. (2010 Code § 21-64)
6-13-5: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying
insignia, or by such other method as may be determined and designated by the
police department. (2010 Code § 21-65)
6-13-6: WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES OR PROCESSIONS:
No funeral, procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons,
or fifty (50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street, except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. Any permit
issued hereunder shall have no fee and shall be applied for not less than ten
(10) days prior to the parade or procession. (2010 Code § 21-66)
6-13-7: VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any sidewalk
area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (2010 Code § 21-67)
6-13-8: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked, unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (2010 Code § 21-68)
6-13-9: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
A.   No vehicle shall be backed upon any street, highway, avenue or public
thoroughfare except for such distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle
to enter the proper driving lane from a parked position. Such backing shall be
done after the driver of said vehicle has ascertained that such movement can be
made without endangering or interfering with other traffic.
B.   No vehicle shall be backed from a parking space unless such movement can
be made without endangering or interfering with other traffic. (2010 Code § 21-
69)
6-13-10: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load a passenger. (2010
Code § 21-70)
6-13-11: OVERTAKING STOPPED SCHOOL BUS PROHIBITED:
The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is stopped to
take on or discharge schoolchildren or other occupants, and on which the red
loading signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the
school bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then
proceed past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due
caution for the safety of such schoolchildren and other occupants. (2010 Code §
21-71)
6-13-12: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISMS:
A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are in
the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or to the sides of vehicles or as to
interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such a position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to interfere with his control over the driving
mechanism of the vehicle.
C.   No person shall drive any vehicle so constructed or closed in by
obstructions to view so as to prevent the driver from having a clear view ahead
and at all sides of such vehicle. (2010 Code § 21-72)
6-13-13: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (2010 Code §
21-73)
6-13-14: CONTROLLED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(2010 Code § 21-74)
6-13-15: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (2010 Code § 21-75)
6-13-16: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride, nor shall the driver of any vehicle permit another person
to ride, on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for
the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to any person riding
within truck bodies or to persons engaged in the lawful delivery of newspapers,
and who are riding on the tailgate of a vehicle in a safe and prudent manner.
(2010 Code § 21-76)
6-13-17: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within any safety zone or
island. (2010 Code § 21-77)
6-13-18: DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS:
A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway, street, avenue or
public thoroughfare any glass bottle, glass, nails, tack, wire, cans or any
other substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such
highway, street, avenue or public thoroughfare.
B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any highway,
street, avenue or public thoroughfare, any destructive or injurious material
shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway, street,
avenue or public thoroughfare shall remove any glass or other injurious
substances dropped upon the public thoroughfare from such vehicle.
D.   No person shall throw any substance at a vehicle or any occupant thereof,
nor shall any person throw any substance at a person on or adjacent to a
highway, street, avenue or public thoroughfare. (2010 Code § 21-78)
6-13-19: MOTOR SCOOTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor driven cycle, including
a motorized scooter, or electric-assisted or motorized bicycle, on a street in
this city unless the operator possesses a current and valid driver's license
and insurance security verification as required by law and ordinance. (2010
Code § 21-79) (Ord. 494, 9-12-2023)
CHAPTER 14
PEDESTRIANS RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
6-14-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Controls
6-14-2: Right Of Way In Crosswalks
6-14-3: When Pedestrian Shall Yield
6-14-4: Prohibited Crossing
6-14-5: Pedestrians Soliciting Rides Or Business
6-14-6: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-14-7: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
6-14-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROLS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in this
title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2010 Code § 21-81)
6-14-2: RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALKS:
A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle. (2010 Code § 21-82)
6-14-3: WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD:
A.   Every pedestrian crossing a road at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or
overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles upon the roadway. (2010 Code § 21-83)
6-14-4: PROHIBITED CROSSING:
Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(2010 Code § 21-84)
6-14-5: PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
donation, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (2010 Code § 21-85)
6-14-6: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (2010 Code § 21-86)
6-14-7: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a
street shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction, and
shall yield to approaching vehicles. (2010 Code § 21-87)
CHAPTER 15
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-15-1: Effect Of Regulations
6-15-2: Traffic Laws Apply To Persons Riding Bicycles
6-15-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-15-4: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-15-5: Parking
6-15-6: Riding On Sidewalks
6-15-7: Speed
6-15-8: Lamps And Other Equipment On Bicycles
6-15-9: Registration Required
6-15-10: Violations; Penalties
6-15-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or to fail to
perform any act required of this chapter.
B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize
or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein. (2010 Code § 21-88)
6-15-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. (2010 Code § 21-89)
6-15-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or
U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction
of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make
any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (2010 Code § 21-90)
6-15-4: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadway set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. (2010 Code § 21-91)
6-15-5: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at a curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2010 Code § 21-92)
6-15-6: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district.
B.   The chief of police is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall
yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (2010 Code § 21-93)
6-15-7: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (2010 Code § 21-94)
6-15-8: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
A.   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white reflector visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlights on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
B.   A bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator to
make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (2010 Code § 21-95)
6-15-9: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
A.   Every owner of a bicycle, before the same shall be operated on any of the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public highways in the city, shall register the
bicycle with an authorized agent of the city.
B.   This section shall apply to all residents of the city and to such
nonresidents who operate bicycles upon the streets of the city habitually or
frequently. It shall not apply to casual travelers or tourists passing through
the city on their bicycles. Proof of out of city residency shall be requested
when a bicycle is unregistered and out of city residency is claimed. In the
event out of city residency cannot be established, the bicycle shall be handled
as an in city, nonregistered bicycle. The police department shall make every
reasonable effort to verify residency. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to bona fide dealers of new or secondhand bicycles when the bicycles are
kept by the dealers for sale to the public.
C.   All bicycles must be registered within ten (10) days of purchase or
transfer.
D.   The registration provided for in this section shall be valid for the life
of the bicycle. All bicycle registrations shall be appurtenant to the specific
bicycle for which issued, and no other, and shall not be transferred to or used
on any other bicycle.
E.   It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of
any bicycle to report such sale or transfer by returning to the police
department the registration card issued to such person, together with the name
and address of the person to whom the bicycle was sold or transferred. Such
report shall be made within ten (10) days of the date of the sale or transfer.
It shall be the duty of the purchaser or transferee of such bicycle to apply
for a transfer of registration therefor within ten (10) days of the sale or
transfer. The original registration, which has no expiration date, shall remain
with the bicycle and the number reassigned to the new registered owner. (2010
Code § 21-95.1)
6-15-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   A police officer may take into possession and impound any bicycle being
operated or possessed on all streets, roads, highways, alleys, sidewalks or
other rights of way upon which the city has the authority to enforce traffic
laws and ordinances when the bicycle has not been properly registered. The
police department may keep the bicycle impounded until the owner obtains for
the bicycle a bicycle registration decal or shows proof of ownership
satisfactory to the city and pays all applicable civil fines, as provided for
in this section.
B.   Within ninety (90) days after such impoundment, if the owner has not
registered the bicycle or requested its return upon showing satisfactory proof
of ownership, the bicycle shall be considered unclaimed evidence, and the city
may retain the bicycle for its use, transfer the bicycle to another
governmental entity, donate the bicycle to a charitable organization or sell
the bicycle. If the city chooses to sell a bicycle, the city shall advertise
the bicycle for sale as it does other unclaimed evidence. The owner may, upon
proof of ownership satisfactory to the city, before the time of sale, redeem
the bicycle by payment of any civil fines and costs incurred in the impoundment
and advertisement for sale of the bicycle.
C.   In addition to impoundment as provided for above, a citation may be issued
by the police department for failure to properly register a bicycle or for
violation of section
6-15-9 of this chapter. The penalty for such violation shall be payment of a
fine in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00). (2010 Code § 21-95.2)
CHAPTER 16
MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
6-16-1: Additional Passengers Prohibited; Exception
6-16-2: Special Speed Limitations
6-16-3: Required Equipment
6-16-4: Miscellaneous Provisions
6-16-1: ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No driver of a two (2) or three (3) wheel motor vehicle shall carry any other
person on, upon or within such vehicle on any street or highway in the city,
except as hereinafter provided; provided, however, that if any two (2) or three
(3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater
shall have either a double seating device with double footrests or a sidecar
attachment providing a separate seat space with such sidecar for each person
riding therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of
said sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the
age of sixteen (16) years or older to carry a passenger. A demonstration ride
by a licensed dealer or his employee is excepted from the provisions hereof.
(2010 Code § 21-96)
6-16-2: SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS:
No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater
than the speed limit legally posted; provided, however, in no event nor at any
time may an operator under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle
or motor scooter at a speed greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour. (2010
Code § 21-97)
6-16-3: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all motor
scooters, except on actual trail rides conducted outside of public roads and
highways:
A.   Rearview Mirrors: All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
B.   Windshield: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect the operator
from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
C.   Brakes: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of the same to stop and hold such
vehicles, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheels. All such vehicles
shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which shall
display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between red and amber,
visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100') to the rear in
normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the service
brake.
D.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
E.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with a
fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
F.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least one
lighted headlight capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the rear, and such
light required by this section shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in
motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise, and at any other time when due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmosphere conditions, persons and vehicles on the streets are not
clearly discernible at a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') ahead.
G.   Headgear: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age shall
operate or ride upon any vehicle under this section unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of a type which complies
with standards established by the Oklahoma department of public safety. All
crash helmets shall consist of lining, padding and chinstraps and be of the
type as not to distort the view of the driver. The chief of police is hereby
authorized to approve or disapprove protective headgear and eye protective
devices sold and required herein, and to issue and enforce regulations
establishing standards and specifications for approval thereof. (2010 Code §
21-98)
6-16-4: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
A.   Riding On Sidewalks Prohibited: No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be
ridden upon any sidewalk in the city.
B.   Handlebar Size: Handlebars on motorcycles and motor scooters shall not
exceed twelve inches (12") in height, measured from the crown or point of
attachment.
C.   Holding Onto Moving Vehicles: No rider of a motorcycle or motor scooter
shall hold to any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
D.   Passing Between Lanes: No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall
pass other vehicles in between lanes of traffic traveling in the same
direction, authorized emergency vehicles excepted. (2010 Code § 21-99)
CHAPTER 17
PARKING METHODS
SECTION:
6-17-1: Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
6-17-2: Brakes Set; Motor Not Left Running
6-17-3: Signs Or Markings Indicating Angle Parking
6-17-4: Obedience To Angle Parking Signs Or Markings
6-17-5: Park In Spaces Marked Off
6-17-6: Permits For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb; Loading Or Unloading
In Streets
6-17-1: STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked
with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the right hand curb; provided, that every vehicle stopped or
parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent
curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (2010 Code § 21-100)
6-17-2: BRAKES SET; MOTOR NOT LEFT RUNNING:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (2010 Code
§ 21-101)
6-17-3: SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING:
The city commission may, by motion or resolution, determine upon what streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked or signed.
(2010 Code § 21-102)
6-17-4: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS:
On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (2010 Code § 21-103)
6-17-5: PARK IN SPACES MARKED OFF:
In areas where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (2010 Code § 21-104)
6-17-6: PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB; LOADING OR UNLOADING
IN STREETS:
A.   Permit; Revocation: The chief of police is authorized to issue special
permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and
conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or
lessee of real property, or to the owner of the vehicle, and shall grant to
such person the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. The chief of
police may revoke such permits at any time.
B.   Safety Barricades And Warning Devices: The person, firm or entity to which
any such permit is issued shall be responsible for erecting safety barricades
and warning devices. Such barricades and warning devices shall properly warn of
the loading or unloading and shall be erected to protect pedestrians, animals
and vehicles from such loading and unloading activities. Such barricades shall
further be erected at the limits of such street, alley or right of way so as to
properly indicate to the public that such street, alley or right of way is
closed. All warning devices and barricades shall be approved by the chief of
police.
C.   Violation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other
persons to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
D.   Prohibited Without Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
entity to load or unload merchandise from any street, alley or right of way, or
to load or unload while backed up to a curb without first securing a permit as
provided for in this section. (2010 Code § 21-105)
CHAPTER 18
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIAL PLACES
SECTION:
6-18-1: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited
6-18-2: Unlawful In Or Upon Private Driveways And Private Property; Complaint
Required; Evidence Of Permission
6-18-3: Parking In Streets And Alleys Not To Obstruct Traffic
6-18-4: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-18-5: Parking Time Limits May Be Established; Prohibitions
6-18-6: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours Prohibited
6-18-7: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Roadways
6-18-8: Parking Prohibited In Certain Areas
6-18-9: Handicapped Parking; Penalties
6-18-10: Handicapped Parking Signs
6-18-1: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED:
A.   Places Prohibited: No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except
when necessary to avoid a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or ordinance, or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device,
in any of the following places:
   1.   On a sidewalk;
   2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
   3.   In or upon a private driveway of another, without permission of the
owner, lessee or person in charge thereof;
   4.   Upon the private property of another other than a private driveway,
without permission of the owner, lessee or person in charge thereof, except
where such private property is provided as a parking area and the general use
of said property is not restricted by signs or proper markings to allow parking
by a specific class of individuals only, such as customers of a particular
business establishment, residents of a certain apartment house, etc.;
   5.   Within an intersection;
   6.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking space
officially marked;
   7.   On a crosswalk;
   8.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   9.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   10.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the city indicates a different length by signs or markings;
   11.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail or railroad crossing;
   12.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted;
   13.   Alongside or opposite any street excavating or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct the traffic;
   14.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   15.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway underpass;
   16.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; (2010 Code § 21-
106)
   17.   In or along any designated fire lane. (Ord. 410, 10-8-2013)
B.   Unauthorized Movement: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his control into such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful. (2010 Code § 21-106)
6-18-2: UNLAWFUL IN OR UPON PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS AND PRIVATE PROPERTY; COMPLAINT
REQUIRED; EVIDENCE OF PERMISSION:
A.   Complaint: In all instances where there occurs a violation of section
6-18-1 of this chapter by reason of the stopping, standing or parking of a
vehicle in the places designated as subsections
6-18-1A3 and A4 of this chapter, the owner, lessee or person in charge of the
private driveway or property in or upon which the violation occurs shall sign a
complaint against the person stopping, standing or parking such vehicle, or if
the identity of said person be unknown, then said complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of said vehicle, in which case the evidentiary
presumption set forth in section
6-4-4 of this title shall apply. Said complaint so filed shall be verified and
shall allege that the complaining party is the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the private driveway or property in or upon which such stopping,
standing, or parking of said vehicle occurred.
B.   Burden Of Proof For Permission: In any prosecution based upon a properly
verified complaint as set forth in subsection A of this section, the person
alleged to have violated the provisions of section
6-18-1 of this chapter by reason of the stopping, standing or parking of a
vehicle in the places designated in subsections
6-18-1A3 and A4 of this chapter, shall have the burden of showing that
permission therefor was given by the owner, lessee or person in charge of the
private driveway or property in or upon which the violation is alleged to have
occurred.
C.   Penalty: Violation of the terms of this section shall be considered to be
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, violators shall be fined not to exceed
twenty dollars ($20.00) and, in addition thereto, shall pay any and all
reasonable and necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other person in
having any vehicle or trailer removed from his property and stored.
D.   Nonliability For Damages: The landowner or person in charge of the land
shall not be liable for any damages which may occur to a trespassing vehicle or
trailer under the terms of this section, while the same is trespassing or while
it is being removed from his property, or while it is in storage. (2010 Code §
21-107)
6-18-3: PARKING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (2010 Code § 21-
108)
6-18-4: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon a roadway for the principal purpose of:
A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated
by an emergency. (2010 Code § 21-109)
6-18-5: PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED; PROHIBITIONS:
A.   Authority: The city manager is hereby authorized to establish parking time
limits, or to prohibit parking, on designated streets and parts of streets by
having appropriate signs placed thereon.
B.   Violation Prohibited: When such signs are in place, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park a vehicle in violation thereof. (Ord. 430, 2-10-2015)
6-18-6: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street or city owned parking lot for a
period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours. This section shall not
affect parking limits established for shorter periods. (2010 Code § 21-111)
6-18-7: STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS:
In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs or
marks are placed to permit such standing or parking. (2010 Code § 21-112)
6-18-8: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
A.   Parking shall be prohibited for a distance of twenty feet (20') in each
direction from the intersection of Main Street and Thomas Avenue and a like
distance of twenty feet (20') in each direction from the intersection of Main
Street and Stumbo Street.
B.   Parking shall be prohibited for a distance of twenty feet (20') from the
north edge of the fire station driveway on the east side of Main Street.
C.   Parking shall be prohibited for a distance of twenty five feet (25') in
each direction from the fire hydrant located on the west side of Second Street,
at the east edge of the Perkins School property.
D.   Parking shall be prohibited for a distance of fifteen feet (15') in each
direction of all other fire hydrants located in the city, except in a parking
space officially marked.
E.   The above referenced no parking areas shall be officially designated by
painting the curbs yellow and/or posting appropriate signs. (2010 Code § 21-
113)
6-18-9: HANDICAPPED PARKING; PENALTIES:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in
any parking space, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair unloading area or any portion
thereof that is designated and posted as a reserved area for the parking of a
motor vehicle operated by, or transporting a physically disabled person unless:
   1.   Such person has applied for and been issued a detachable insignia
indicating physical disability under the provision of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 15-112, and such insignia is displayed as provided in 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 15-112; (Ord. 380, 11-9-2010)
   2.   Such person has applied for and been issued a physically disabled
special license plate pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 15-112, and such license plate is displayed pursuant to the provisions
of the Oklahoma vehicle license and registration act; (Ord. 380, 11-9-2010;
amd. 2012 Code)
   3.   Such person has been issued a disabled veterans license plate with the
international accessibility symbol pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1135.2 and such license plate is displayed pursuant to the provisions of the
Oklahoma vehicle license and registration act;
   4.   Such person has been issued and is properly displaying a disability
sticker issued by the department of veterans affairs or a federal military
base; or
   5.   Such person has been issued and is properly displaying a physically
disabled placard or license plate issued by another state.
B.   Violation of the provisions of subsection A of this section shall result
in a fine of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00), and in addition thereto, such
person shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary charges incurred by the
landowner or other person in having any motor vehicle removed from the property
and stored.
C.   Any person cited for a first offense for a violation of subsection A of
this section, who has displayed a placard which has expired, shall be entitled
to dismissal of such charge and shall not be required to pay the fine or court
costs if the person presents to the court within thirty (30) days of the
issuance of the citation a notice from the department of public safety that the
person has obtained a valid handicapped parking placard. (Ord. 380, 11-9-2010)
D.   Any person who has not been issued a physically disabled parking placard
pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, a physically
disabled license plate issued pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1135.1, a disabled veterans license plate pursuant to the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1135.2, a disability sticker issued
by the department of veterans affairs or federal military base, or a physically
disabled placard or license plate issued by another state, and uses a placard,
sticker or license plate to park in a disabled parking place, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
 1-4-1 of this code. A person transporting a physically disabled person with an
authorized placard, sticker or license plate, shall be excluded from the
provisions of this section.
E.   Any person who has been issued a physically disabled parking placard
pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, a physically
disabled license plate issued pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1135.1, or a disabled veterans license plate pursuant to the
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1135.2, and knowingly allows the
placard or license plate to be used by a person not issued the placard or
license plate, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
F.   A person who knowingly makes a counterfeit physically disabled parking
placard or physically disabled license plate is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each counterfeit placard or license plate made by such
person. (Ord. 380, 11-9-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
6-18-10: HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGNS:
A.   Posted signage for every parking space that is designated and posted as a
reserved area for the parking of a motor vehicle operated by or transporting a
physically disabled person must display sign R7-8, as provided in the latest
edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" published by the
federal highway administration of the United States department of
transportation, which includes the words "RESERVED PARKING" and the blue and
white international symbol of access. Van accessible physically disabled
reserved parking spaces shall also display sign R7-8a immediately below sign
R7-8.
B.   The blue and white international symbol of access, accompanied by
appropriate language, including, but not limited to "Handicapped Parking",
"Reserved for Handicapped" and "Permit Required-Towing Enforced" may be used in
lieu of sign R7-8 if the sign was erected prior to January 1, 2010. (2010 Code
§ 21-113.6)
CHAPTER 19
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
6-19-1: Specific Truck Routes Established
6-19-2: Procedure For Establishing; Weight Limits
6-19-3: Truck Traffic Within City
6-19-4: Enforcement
6-19-1: SPECIFIC TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established within the city the following truck route:
A.   Outside Origin; Outside Destination: All trucks entering the city for
destination points outside the city shall operate only over the following
designated routes:
   1.   North Or Southbound: When entering the city from either the north or
south on U.S. Highway 177 and traveling in a northbound or southbound direction
through the city, then said truck shall continue on U.S. Highway 177 to the
city limits.
   2.   East Or Westbound: When entering the city from either the east or west
on State Highway 33 and traveling in an eastbound or westbound direction
through the city, then said truck shall continue on State Highway 33 to the
city limits. (2010 Code § 21-115)
6-19-2: PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING; WEIGHT LIMITS:
A.   Public Hearing; Notice: The city commission, after holding a public
hearing thereon, notice of which shall be published at least ten (10) days
prior to the date thereof, may by resolution prescribed routes through the city
for the use of trucks in general or trucks of particular kinds and other
vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through or
within the city. The city manager shall see that appropriate and adequate signs
are placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
prescribed routes.
B.   Weight Limits: Vehicles in excess of two (2) tons are prohibited from
using certain streets as follows:
No person shall operate any vehicle exceeding a carry weight in excess of two
(2) tons or in excess of two (2) axles at any time upon any streets in the
city, except those streets designated as truck routes, and except that such
vehicles may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up
materials or merchandise and then only by entering such street at the
intersection nearest the designation of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no
further than the nearest intersection thereafter. (2010 Code § 21-116)
6-19-3: TRUCK TRAFFIC WITHIN CITY:
A.   Outside Origin:
   1.   One Inside Destination Point: All trucks entering the city for a
destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck
route as provided for in section
6-19-1 of this chapter, and shall deviate only at the intersection with the
street, upon which such traffic is permitted, nearest to the destination point.
Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck
route by the shortest permissible route.
   2.   Multiple Inside Destination Points: All trucks entering the city for
multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck routes
and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street, upon which such
traffic is permitted, nearest to the first destination point. Upon leaving the
first destination points by the shortest direction and only over streets upon
which such traffic is permitted. Upon leaving the last destination point, a
deviating truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest permissible
routes.
B.   Inside Origin:
   1.   Outside Destination Point: All trucks, on a trip originating in the
city and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city, shall
proceed by the shortest direction over streets on which such traffic is
permitted to a truck route as herein established.
   2.   Inside Destination Points: All trucks, on a trip originating in the
city and traveling in the city for destination points in the city shall proceed
only over streets upon which such traffic is permitted. (2010 Code § 21-117)
6-19-4: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Clerk Maintains Map: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate maps
setting out truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is permitted. The
maps shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be
available to the public.
B.   Chief Of Police Maintains Signs: The chief of police shall cause all truck
routes and those streets upon which truck traffic is prohibited to be clearly
signposted to give notice that this chapter is in effect.
C.   Failure To Post: No person shall be charged with violating the provisions
of this chapter by reason of operating a truck upon a street wherein truck
travel is prohibited, unless appropriate signs are posted on such street.
D.   Weigh In: The chief of police shall have the authority to require any
person driving or in control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding over a
truck route or street over which a truck is permitted to proceed to any public
or private scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether
this chapter has been complied with. (2010 Code § 21-118)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Parks And Recreation Board
7-1-2: Park Regulations
7-1-3: Camping
7-1-4: Penalty
7-1-1: PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD:
A.   Established; Membership: There is hereby established a parks and
recreation board, which shall consist of seven (7) persons who may reside
within or without the corporate limits of the city.
B.   Appointment: The city commission shall appoint to the parks and recreation
board seven (7) persons whose terms in office are outlined in subsection C of
this section. (2010 Code § 17-1)
C.   Term Of Office:
   1.   Members of the parks and recreation board shall hold office for
overlapping terms of three (3) years each, beginning on January 1 annually;
provided, that the first members shall be appointed to serve as follows: (2010
Code § 17-1; amd. 2012 Code)
      a.   One shall be appointed for term of one year;
      b.   Three (3) shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years;
      c.   Three (3) shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years.
   2.   Appointments thereafter shall be made for terms of three (3) years,
except vacancies on the board occurring otherwise than by expiration of a term
of office shall be filled by appointment by the city commission for the
unexpired term of the member or members whose vacancy is being filled.
D.   Compensation: The appointed members of the parks and recreation board
shall serve without compensation or pay, except that any member of said parks
and recreation board who shall incur reasonable expenses at the direction of
the city, or in official and sanctioned furtherance of his duties, shall be
entitled to reimbursement in full by the city. (2010 Code § 17-1)
E.   Powers And Duties: The parks and recreation board shall be an advisory
board and shall have the right to consider any matter relating to public parks,
playgrounds and other recreational facilities, and to make recommendations
thereon to the city and to others as may be appropriate. (2010 Code § 17-2)
F.   Officers Elected; Rules And Procedures: Immediately after appointment of
the parks and recreation board annually by the city commission, such parks and
recreation board shall organize by electing from their members for a term of
one year a chairperson, vice chairperson and a secretary, and shall further
adopt from time to time such bylaws, rules and regulations, and amendments
thereto, as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter. (2010
Code § 17-3)
G.   Termination Of Membership: If any member of the board shall be absent from
more than one-half (1/2) of all the meetings of the board, regular or special,
held within any period of six (6) consecutive calendar months, he/she shall
thereupon cease to hold office. (2010 Code § 17-4)
H.   Money Received For Property Or Services: When any money is received from
the sale or lease of any property, the providing of any services or other
purpose, it shall be paid over to the city clerk for deposit into the general
fund of the city on or before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the next working day.
Said funds shall be deposited by the city clerk pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 17-212. (2010 Code § 17-5)
I.   Purchases:
   1.   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contracted services
for the parks and recreation department shall be made only pursuant to
authorization granted by the city commission and subject to its supervision and
control.
   2.   All purchases or contracts shall cause there to be submitted to the
city commission a purchase order in quadruplicate at the time the indebtedness
is incurred pursuant to 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.1(B).
   3.   All claims for goods or services to the department of parks and
recreation must be presented in writing and verified in the manner provided by
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 17-102.
   4.   The parks and recreation department may issue a blanket purchase order
pursuant to 62 Oklahoma Statutes section 310.8 and if approved by the city
commission.
   5.   Neither the parks and recreation board nor any individual member
thereof shall have the authority to contract, purchase nor incur obligation on
behalf of the city. (2010 Code § 17-6)
7-1-2: PARK REGULATIONS:
A.   Jurisdictional Limits Extended: The jurisdictional limits of the city are
hereby extended to and over all real estate, lands, premises and appurtenances
thereunto belonging, now located thereon, or hereafter to be located thereon,
on all property owned, controlled or managed by the city, whether such be
within or without the corporation limits of the city. The police and other
officers of the city shall enforce the ordinances of the city with regard to
such property without the corporation limits of the city, with as full force
and effect as if said property was located within the incorporated limits of
the city. (2010 Code § 17-7)
B.   Unlawful To Deface: It is unlawful to deface, cut, mark, break or injure
any tree, shrub, plant or building in any place under the control of the city.
(2010 Code § 17-8)
C.   Posting Bills: It is unlawful to post any advertising notices or bills, or
to distribute circulars or advertisements in any place under the control of the
city without permission of the city. (2010 Code § 17-9)
D.   Leaving Trash: It is unlawful to leave any trash or waste of any nature,
or dump rubbish of any nature whatsoever, in any park or place under the
control of the city, or along the public highway leading thereto. Any person or
organization using any public place or park owned or controlled by the city for
picnics and other purposes shall place all wastepaper, rubbish and refuse of
any nature whatsoever in the trash containers furnished for the same and shall
leave said ground in a clean and sanitary condition. (2010 Code § 17-10)
E.   Harming Wildlife: It is unlawful to harm, capture or destroy any wild
animal or bird, or to disturb or destroy any bird's nest in any public park or
place under control of the city. (2010 Code § 17-11)
F.   Regulating Traffic And Parking:
   1.   It is unlawful to drive any vehicle within any city park, except on the
driveways and roads thereof.
   2.   It is unlawful to park anywhere in any city park, except on designated
parking places, and along driveways and roads thereof.
   3.   It is unlawful to drive any vehicle in any city park in a careless or
reckless manner, or at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. (2010
Code § 17-12)
G.   Tobacco Use In City Parks Prohibited:
   1.   The use of tobacco is a public nuisance, is dangerous to the health of
both adults and children, and sets an unhealthy example for the city of
Perkins' youth and children. Therefore, the use of tobacco in any form is
hereby prohibited in all city owned parks. The use of tobacco in any form shall
also be prohibited in and around all public restrooms located in city owned
parks, and in and around all parking lots adjacent to city owned parks.
   2.   For purposes of this section, a "city owned park" shall be defined as
any parcel of open land which is owned by the city of Perkins and used for
recreational activities, including all walking and bicycle trails, and fields
used for sporting events.
   3.   Any person who knowingly violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imposition of a
fine set by resolution, excluding costs, fees and assessments. (Ord. 395, 9-11-
2012)
7-1-3: CAMPING:
A.   Permit Required: No person in a park shall camp in other than permanent
cabins for organized camping without first acquiring a permit from the city
clerk and approved by the city manager. No person shall set up tents, shacks or
any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any
person leave in a park after dusk any movable structure or special vehicle to
be used or that could be used for such purposes, such as a house trailer, camp
wagon, motor home or the like without first having obtained a camping permit
from the city clerk and approved by the city manager. (2010 Code § 17-13; amd.
2012 Code)
B.   Application For Permit: An application for a vehicle overnight camping
permit shall supply the following information to the city clerk:
   1.   The name and address of the applicant;
   2.   The days for which the permit is desired;
   3.   The park for which the permit is desired;
   4.   A description of the tent, structure or special vehicle to be used;
   5.   Any other information that the city clerk shall find reasonably
necessary to determine whether a permit should be issued. (2010 Code § 17-15)
C.   Fee For Permit: A permit fee as established by resolution of the city
commission shall be paid.
D.   Issuance Of Permit; Conditions: The city clerk shall issue a permit when
the city clerk finds: (2010 Code § 17-15; amd. 2012 Code)
   1.   The proposed camping or use of the park will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
   2.   The proposed camping use will not unreasonably interfere with or
detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation;
   3.   The proposed camping use is not unreasonably anticipated to incite
violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
   4.   The proposed camping will not entail unusual, extraordinary or
burdensome expense of police operation by the city;
   5.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the day
and hour required in the application. (2010 Code § 17-15)
E.   Expiration Of Permit: Unless granted an extension by the city manager, all
permits issued hereunder shall expire on passage of three (3) days from the
date of issuance. (2010 Code § 17-16)
F.   Effect Of Permit: A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and
regulations and applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in
said permits. (2010 Code § 17-17)
G.   Revocation Of Permit: The city manager shall have the authority to revoke
a permit upon finding of violation of any rule or ordinance, or upon good cause
shown. (2010 Code § 17-18)
7-1-4: PENALTY:
A.   Violation Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to violate, neglect or refuse to comply with any regulation, requirement or
provisions contained within this chapter. (2010 Code § 17-19)
B.   Misdemeanor: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or
refuses to comply with any regulation, requirement or provision of this chapter
is hereby deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. For purposes hereof, each day said violation continues may
be determined as a separate offense hereunder. (2010 Code § 17-19; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC AREAS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Reserved
7-2-3: Trees And Shrubbery
7-2-4: Planting And Maintenance In Public Rights Of Way And Sight Triangles
7-2-5: Display Of Building Number
7-2-6: Unlawful Obstructions And Uses
7-2-7: Street Cuts And Excavations
7-2-8: Limited Access Facilities
7-2-9: Permit Required
7-2-10:    Restoration Of Property And City’s Costs
7-2-11:    Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side or properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes and not intended
for general traffic circulation.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY: Any driveway other than a residential driveway.
   CURB CUT: That portion of the curb which may be removed to allow access to
private property by use of a driveway.
   CURB RETURN: That portion of a curb which leaves the established curb line
and extends toward the private property line for the purpose of defining and
establishing the width of a driveway.
   DRIVEWAY: That portion of a public right of way which is normally used for
ingress to and egress from private property abutting a street, alley, easement
or other public way.
   DRIVEWAY CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation who has been hired,
retained and employed by a private property owner to perform work upon the
driveway of that private property owner.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to the public of the use of a strip of
land for specific purposes. When one of those purposes is occasional vehicular
traffic, then for purposes of this chapter, the term "easement" or "alley"
shall be synonymous and interchangeable.
   GUTTER: A strip of roadway surfacing adjacent to the curb, separate from the
remainder of the roadway pavement and not more than three feet (3') in width.
   INTERSECTING STREET: Any alley which joins another alley or street at an
angle, whether or not it crosses the other.
   PROPERTY OWNER: The person, persons, estate, trust, corporation or any
entity which is listed as the record title owner to said property in the Payne
County clerk's office; and/or the person, persons, estate, trust, corporation
or any other entity who is the equitable owner of said property; and/or any
person who performs work on the curb or driveway portions of the city of
Perkins street or alley system and which property is used for the residential
purposes of such person.
   PUBLIC WAY: Any easement alley, street, street intersection or alley
intersection.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY: A driveway which serves property, the primary use of
which is for residential purposes, whether it be single-family or multiple-
family use.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of any street, alley, easement or public way improved
and intended for use for pedestrian circulation.
   STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET WORKS CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation duly licensed and
authorized to perform work upon the streets, roadways and alleys within the
city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   UTILITY CUT: An excavation within any street, alley or public way for the
installation or maintenance of public utilities, whether such utilities are
publicly or privately owned or publicly or privately used. (2010 Code § 20-1)
7-2-2: RESERVED
7-2-3: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
A.   Trimming Required: The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking area, between the sidewalks
and the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises
is occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk, except as provided in
subsection
7-2-4A2 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 20-2; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Injury Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or
shrubbery in a street or alley; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (2010 Code §
20-2.1)
7-2-4: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY AND SIGHT TRIANGLES:
A.   Planting Trees And Landscape Materials:
   1.   The requirements for tree and other landscape material on both public
and private property are:
      a.   No trees shall be planted in the public right of way;
      b.   Landscape material shall be planted in such a way as to not obstruct
access to a fire hydrant, utility meter or utility pole;
      c.   Plant materials may be planted in the easement but must be
maintained to a height of three feet (3') or less and shall not restrict
drainage. Any plant material which is planted within a dedicated easement will
be subject to damage, pruning and removal as necessary to allow full
utilization of the easement and maintenance of utilities contained therein;
(2010 Code § 20-2.2)
      d.   Plant materials being planted to meet landscape requirements should
be planted during the spring or fall months to improve chances of survival. If
all other requirements are met, a certificate of occupancy will be issued for
properties which are developed during the other times of the year without the
landscape materials being installed; provided, however, that the plant
materials must be planted within the first planting season following completion
of construction. (2010 Code § 20-2.2; amd. 2012 Code)
   2.   On any corner lot on which a front yard and exterior side yard are
required, no wall, fence, sign, other structure, vehicle or plant growth having
a height in excess of three feet (3') above the elevation of the lowest point
of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in the triangle formed
by measuring a distance of thirty feet (30') along both property lines from
their point of intersection and connecting the points so established to form a
triangle; except, however, that a single pole eighteen inches (18") or less in
diameter supporting a permitted sign may be placed in the sight triangle. (2010
Code § 20-2.2)
B.   Care, Maintenance And Removal:
   1.   The city shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove,
prune, spray and preserve trees, plants and shrubs, or part thereof, within the
right of way of all streets and alleys, public grounds and all public easements
and sight triangles as may be necessary to ensure the safety of city utilities,
to protect individuals and properties, maintain visibility of traffic signals
and other traffic warning or directional signage, or to preserve the symmetry
and beauty of the trees, plants or shrubs.
   2.   The city may, but is not required to, remove, or cause or order to be
removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines or other public improvements, or is infected with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. Property owners shall be notified by a door
knocker twenty- four (24) hours prior to work on a tree planted or located on
their property.
   3.   If development plans include preservation of existing trees or other
vegetation on site during construction, the building permit plan shall specify
the methods to be used to protect the trees or vegetation.
(Ord. 507, 10-8-2024)
7-2-5: DISPLAY OF BUILDING NUMBER:
A.   Notification Of Correct Number: The city shall give reasonable and proper
notice to the occupant of each building or structure, as it deems necessary,
notifying such occupant of the correct number of the structure occupied by him,
and notifying such occupant of the date by which the occupant shall properly
place such number on the structure occupied by him. A copy of such notice shall
be, at the same time, mailed to the U.S. post office, all public utilities and
the city clerk.
B.   Display Required: At the time designated in such notice, the occupant
shall place the proper number upon such building or structure. Such number
shall be displayed so as to be in sharp contrast with its surroundings and
easily read from the street directly in front of the building or structure.
(2010 Code § 20-3)
7-2-6: UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTIONS AND USES:
A.   Obstructions Generally: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to use or obstruct sidewalks in any manner so as to interfere unduly with
pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct streets and alleys in any
manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
B.   Obstructing With Merchandise; Exception: It is unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to place upon or permit to be placed upon sidewalks,
parkways, streets and alleys any goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any
other obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to
carry on a business or trade, without receiving a written permit from the city
manager, which shall be good for a maximum of forty eight (48) hours.
C.   Depositing Trash: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
deposit, throw or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas or
sidewalks, any paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash,
crates, boxes, or other refuse of any kind.
D.   Interference With Drainage: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct any street, sidewalk or alley by placing any approach
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the
same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters.
E.   Playing; Exception: It is unlawful for any person to play on sidewalks or
upon the main traveled portion of streets and alleys, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
F.   Business Use: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
construct, erect, place, operate, maintain or permit to exist any ice box, ice
dock, gasoline pump, gasoline storage reservoir, tire rack, tire tools or
equipment, water hose connection, or mercantile business; or any tools, stands,
equipment, signs, advertising mechanisms, merchandise or appurtenances thereof,
aerials, poles or wires therefor, whether permanent or temporary, or any other
obstruction, upon any part of any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, sidewalk,
curbing or parking area within the city.
G.   Water, Mud From Vehicle Draining Onto Street: No automobile or other
vehicle shall be washed at any place where the water, dirt, mud or other
substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof, shall drain into
or upon any street or sidewalk.
H.   Fluids From Filling Stations And Other Businesses: It is unlawful for any
owner or operator of a filling station or other place of business, or any agent
or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or other fluid to flow or
drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking area, street, alley or
other public way.
I.   Hazardous Areas: It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property
abutting upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk area adjacent
to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk
area.
J.   Flooding: When any section of a highway, turnpike, county road or city
street has been closed to traffic due to flooding that is ongoing and traffic
control devices or barricades have been erected by law enforcement or other
government officials with authority over traffic control, it shall be unlawful
for any person to tear down, damage or remove any traffic control devices or
barricades or drive any vehicle through, under, over or around the traffic
control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area. Any
person who violates the provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as set by resolution. Persons
convicted pursuant to the provisions of this subsection shall be ordered to pay
restitution in an amount equal to the actual costs of the emergency response
and repair or replacement of any damaged or lost emergency equipment. In
addition, the person shall be liable for any damage to property or injury or
death to persons caused by the violation. (Ord. 449, 12-13-2016)
7-2-7: STREET CUTS AND EXCAVATIONS:
A.   Permits And Fees:
   1.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to cut, alter, mutilate,
bore under or change in any manner, for any purposes, any paved or travel
portion of any street, alley or easement, or any curb, gutter, catch basin, or
any other appurtenance of any street or alley or any sidewalk in the city, or
in any way change any existing right of way without first obtaining a permit
from the city. (2010 Code § 20-13)
   2.   Fee For Permit: No person shall receive a permit from the city without
having paid to the city clerk a fee as established by resolution of the city
commission, together with any other fees hereinafter required for the
particular work involved.
   3.   Separate Permit Required: Whenever it is necessary to cut or remove any
pavement, walk, drive, curb or gutter, or to bore or excavate in any roadway
for purposes of utility cuts, a separate permit shall be required for each cut
made; provided, that more than one cut may be covered by a single permit if
located on a single connected installation of new pipe or conduit. Replacement
fees on utility cuts shall be calculated separately for each permit on the
basis of actual cost of replacement and added to the base fee as established by
resolution of the city commission per permit.
   4.   Additional Permit Fees: Additional permit fees shall be paid to the
city for construction of walks and driveways by the authorized persons
performing the work at the time the base permit is issued, and shall be as
established by resolution of the city commission. (2010 Code § 20-13; amd. 2012
Code)
   5.   Prohibited Contractors: No permits shall be issued to any contractor
who shall neglect or refuse to correct defective work.
   6.   Exception To Fees: The provisions of this subsection pertaining to
payment of fees shall not apply to employees of a duly organized special
assessment district or to employees of franchises. (2010 Code § 20-13)
B.   Closing Of Streets And Restricting Traffic: When sidewalks, curbing,
guttering, draining, paving, or other street or alley improvements are in the
course of construction in any street or alley, or any public place or highway
in the city, the city shall have authority to close such street, alley or other
public place against traffic or travel of every character, pedestrian included,
for such time as the city shall deem necessary for the proper protection of the
public and security of the improvements. In such event, traffic may be entirely
restricted or limited to definite classes. The portion of such street, alley or
other place to be closed shall be barricaded at the limits in such manner as to
indicate to the public that the same is closed, and cards or signs shall be
erected at each limit stating that such street or alley is closed. The erection
of such barricades and signs shall be deemed sufficient notice to the public.
(2010 Code § 20-14)
C.   Danger Signals: Any person doing any construction or excavating upon or
adjacent to any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground in the city shall
maintain substantial guardrails and barriers around such work or excavation in
such a manner as to protect pedestrians, animals and vehicles. Such persons
shall display and maintain lighted lanterns with red globes, lights or lighted
signal flares from sundown to sunup during the time such work, excavation or
obstruction exists. Such lanterns, flares or lights shall be of a type approved
by the city and shall be placed on or sufficiently near such place in a number
and manner sufficient to warn the traveling public from any direction, and if
such obstruction is more than ten feet (10') long, one of such danger signals
shall be placed at each end and additional ones spaced along such obstruction
not more than twenty feet (20') apart. (2010 Code § 20-15)
D.   Driving On Closed Streets; Possession Of Barricades:
   1.   It is unlawful for any person to remove or destroy any barricades or
signs erected as provided in this section, or to walk, drive vehicles or
otherwise travel upon any street, alley or other public place closed as
provided in this section, except as is necessary for the proper construction of
improvements thereon.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to be in
possession of any barricade or traffic control device belonging to the city, or
to any lawful governmental entity. (2010 Code § 20-15.1)
E.   Materials And Equipment Causing Obstruction; Exception: No materials or
equipment shall be placed on any sidewalk or roadway unless specifically
authorized on the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
except in that part of the width of such sidewalk or roadway which must be
blocked in any case by the work underway, or that part of the width of the
roadway which might normally be occupied by standing vehicles. All operations
shall be so handled as to provide minimum hazard to the public and minimum
obstruction to traffic. All rubbish, equipment and unused materials and
supplies shall be removed by the contractor before his work is opened to
traffic. (2010 Code § 20-16)
F.   Replacement Of Utility Cuts: In those instances when existing pavements,
walks, drives, curbs or gutter within any public way are hereinafter cut or
removed by any contractor, or any trench or excavation of any kind shall be
made in any public way are hereinafter cut or removed by any contractor, or any
trench or excavation of any kind shall be made in any public way for the
installation, removal, alteration or repair of pipes, wires, conduits or other
facilities, such shall be replaced according to city specifications by the
contractor. (2010 Code § 20-17)
G.   Landscaping: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
landscaping and/or planting of trees, grass and shrubs in those portions of the
public ways not immediately required for purposes of public travel, whether by
employees of the city or by the owners of abutting property; provided, that
such work will not interfere with utilities that may be installed in the street
or with sight distance at intersections of public ways. (2010 Code § 20-18)
H.   Insurance Required: No person shall be licensed as a street works
contractor or a driveway contractor unless he has deposited with city an
approved policy of insurance, insuring the city against any claim or action for
public liability or property damage arising out of any act, omission or
negligence on the part of the contractor, to the extent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for any one individual, or three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for any group of individuals. The policy shall agree to defend
the city in such action filed against it and to pay any judgment rendered
against it within the above limits. (2010 Code § 20-20)
I.   Bond Required; Exception: No person shall be licensed as a street works
contractor unless he has posted a bond in the amount of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) with the city clerk, which has been approved by the city
commission. The bond shall be written by a bonding company licensed to do
business in the state and conditioned that the person, or his surety, will
remove any driveway, curb, guttering, surfacing, sidewalk or other improvement
constructed by him in any public way not executed in accordance with the
specifications hereinafter set forth, and replace the same to the satisfaction
of the city to the extent of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) within
any one year; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection
relating to bonds shall not apply to driveway contractors. (2010 Code § 20-21)
J.   Exemption: The provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
employees or agents of the city, or a special assessment district. (2010 Code §
20-22)
K.   Design Standards For Cutting Curbs, Paving, Walks And Drives: No curb
shall be removed or omitted for a driveway entrance except at such location and
at such grades as shall be designated by the city and in accordance with the
following provisions:
   1.   Curb Cuts:
      a.   When any curb or curb and gutter section is removed and is not to be
replaced with a similar section, the same shall be replaced, without
unreasonable delay, by a complete driveway section. The slab shall be held on
the same grade to conform to all provisions as would be required if a complete
driveway section was being constructed.
      b.   When removing curb or gutter for any purpose that has been
constructed as a unit separate from the street surfacing, both curb and gutter
shall be removed. Within the limit of the section or contraction joint, the
curb and gutter shall be removed and replaced to the joint.
      c.   All such cuts shall be sawed with an approved concrete saw to a
depth of not less than one and one-half inches (11/2").
   2.   Utility Cuts: Prior to the removal of pavement for the installation or
repair of subsurface utilities, all sides of the proposed cut shall be sawed
with an approved concrete saw to a depth of not less than one and one-half (11/
2") inches. Where it is necessary to cut paving for emergency repairs, paving
may be removed without sawing, provided any damaged sections of paving are
removed prior to making the repairs. After excavation and backfilling have been
completed, if it is further necessary to remove additional paving, the sawing
process shall be repeated, covering the outer edges of the paving to be
replaced.
   3.   Sidewalk Cuts: Where a sidewalk is to be removed and replaced, a whole
section of the sidewalk at the point involved shall be removed and replaced,
unless the cut is made with a concrete saw. (2010 Code § 20-23)
7-2-8: LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES:
A.   System Established: A system of limited access facilities, consisting of
the streets, avenues, boulevards and ways and parts of streets, established and
created within the corporate limits of the city, as now existing or as the same
may be hereafter extended, and in recognition of the general use of said
streets, avenues, boulevards, ways and parts thereof, and of the wear and
destruction of the same by heavy trucks and other vehicles, and to the extent
that the costs of acquisition of rights of way and property necessary in the
establishment of said limited access facilities exceed the benefits to property
abutting thereon, such limited access facilities are hereby declared to be
improvements of a general nature, and such costs, to the extent that they
exceed the benefits to property abutting thereon, are hereby declared to be
costs of general nature. (2010 Code § 20-25)
B.   Designation Of Limited Access Facilities: The following streets, avenues,
boulevards and ways, and parts of streets, avenues, boulevards and ways, within
the corporate limits of the city, as now existing or as the same may be
hereafter extended, are hereby designated as limited access facilities and as
arterial highways, the same being streets or highways especially designed for
through traffic, entrance into which at intersections may be limited by
requiring all entering vehicles to be brought to a complete stop, and the city
commission may otherwise protect the right of way vehicles thereon, said
arterial highways being described as follows: (2010 Code § 20-26)
   Butler Street
   Carol Court
   Chantry Avenue
   Cimarron Drive
   Cimarron North
   Cimarron South
   Cross Street
   Crozier Street
   Dale Court
   East First
   East Second
   East Third
   East Fourth
   East Fifth
   East Sixth
   East Seventh
   Eaton Street
   Eaton Drive
   Fairway Court
   Fairway Drive
   Fourth Avenue
   Freeman Avenue
   French Avenue
   Fulwider Court
   George Court
   Hert Avenue
   Keegan Way
   Kenworthy Avenue
   Kinder Court
   Kinderwells Boulevard
   Kirk Avenue
   Knipe Avenue
   Lewis Street
   Mahar Drive
   Mangold Street
   Methodist Avenue
   Newport Court
   Newport Street
   Pams Drive
   Payne Street
   Pogue Street
   Reynolds Avenue
   Sasser Court
   Sharp Circle
   Sharp Street
   Stansbury Avenue
   Stumbo Avenue
   Teriwine Drive
   Thomas Avenue
   Timberline North
   Timberline South
   Tony Avenue
   Wells Street
   West First
   West Second
   West Third
   (2010 Code § 20-26; amd. 2012 Code)
C.   Regulation And Use: The use of limited access facilities within the city
shall be regulated and controlled by the traffic ordinances of said city, as
now existing or hereafter enacted or amended. (2010 Code § 20-27)
7-2-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A.   No person or entity, other than a governmental entity engaged in the
official act of maintaining its transportation system, shall obstruct the
traveling surface or construct more than one hundred (100) linear feet of new
facilities or do maintenance work on more than five hundred (500) feet of
facilities or cut the pavement or put facilities under the pavement or install
any new pole within any defined right-of-way or public way without first
obtaining a right-of-way construction permit from the city. Prior to work
commencing, the person or entity shall complete and submit to the city a right-
of-way construction permit application in the form provided by the city and
shall furnish the following:
   1.   Name, address and contact information of the owner or operator of the
utility or facility; and
   2.   Plans for installations shall include a sketch drawing of the project
with description of the size and type of poles or lines, the method of
installation, an aerial map showing location of the proposed poles and lines,
and adequate illustrations to indicate the location of the proposed facilities
with respect to the right-of-way or public way line and the edge of the road;
and
   3.   Payment of a permit application fee and all other required fees shall
be paid, along with any invoiced cost, loss, damage or expense suffered by the
city as a result of the applicant's prior construction activity, including but
not limited to any emergency action taken by the city, with the exception that
an applicant that has a franchise agreement authorizing the applicant to occupy
the city's rights-of-way or public way is not required to pay permit applicable
fees; and
   4.   Work taking place within Oklahoma Department of Transportation (ODOT),
County or Railroad rights-of-way or public ways will be subject to all
necessary permitting and scope-of-work approval by the occupying authority. All
required right-of-way occupancy permits shall accompany city permit
applications;
   5.   Dates of the construction activity, the proposed start and stop times
and any proposal to temporarily close and reopen any roadway; and
   6.   The names of any known subcontractors working on the proposed project
under the applicant's responsibility and authority; and
   7.   A certificate of adequate liability insurance coverage, of applicant
with limits of liability to conform to the limits of the city's statutory
liability as provided in 51 O.S. 2001, § 154, as amended; and
   8.   A traffic control plan in accordance with the uniform manual of traffic
control devices for blockage of any traveling lane in any rights-of way or
public way for any period of time; and
   9.   If determined necessary by city manager or designee, an earth change
permit for any earth change or excavation and/or construction; and
   10.   A storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPP) when the total project
area covers an acre or more of land or disturbs an area less than one acre but
is part of a development area that will ultimately disturb greater than one (1)
acre; and
   11.   For all projects and those that require boring under rights-of-way or
public way, or the cutting of any pavement in a public way, or involve the
installation of an additional pole, the following may be required:
      a.   Detailed engineering plans. The plans shall show the location and
area of the proposed project, the locations of all existing and proposed
equipment and facilities, the height and/or depth of the proposed equipment and
existing facilities and the spatial relationship with any adjacent
infrastructure, rights-of-way or public way line, easement, utility and/or
other physical features. The plans shall be prepared under the direction of and
signed by a registered professional engineer;
      b.   A copy of the engineering plans in an electronic format acceptable
to the city manager's designee;
      c.   Cutting permits as required by Section
7-2-7; and
      d.   The applicant shall meet with the city manager or designee for a
pre-work conference prior to issuance of rights-of-way permits.
B.   Emergency: In the event of an emergency, permit requirements and the
associated fees may be suspended or waived when normal application of the
requirements would be inconsistent with public health, safety, and welfare.
Emergency means the actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or
extreme peril to the safety of persons and property or requires immediate
repair or replacement in order to restore service to the public. Notification
must be provided to the city manager or designee within two (2) hours after
beginning emergency work and shall consist of the following:
   1.   Anticipated date, duration, start and stop time, location (site address
if possible), including nearest cross street;
   2.   Size of the obstruction and work area less any normal traffic control
in advance;
   3.   Applicant's company name;
   4.   Facility owner's name;
   5.   Applicant's local contact information;
   6.   Name, contact person, e-mail address, and twenty-four (24) hour
emergency phone number of any subcontractor(s) responding to the emergency; and
   7.   General description of the type of construction activity and/or
facilities installed.
C.   Renewal: In the event a permitted project does not conclude prior to
expiration of the rights-of-way construction permit under which it is being
performed, the permittee shall apply to the city manager or designee for an
extension of the permit. In such an application, the following information
shall be provided:
   1.   A statement from the permittee indicating the reason for the delay in
completion of the project;
   2.   The date that the permittee anticipates the project to be completed;
and
   3.   Any applicable permit fees established at the time of issuance of the
original permit.
D.   Revocation: The city commission may revoke any occupancy permit at will.
In addition, a permit shall be rendered invalid and revoked by the city manager
or designee if:
   1.   ROW occupant fails to timely pay any fees due to the city, including
but not limited to fees required to be paid under this chapter; or
   2.   ROW occupant fails to provide the city with the name, address and
telephone number of a responsible person whom the city may notify or contact at
any time concerning the occupant's facilities.
(Ord. 501, 6-11-2024; amd. Ord. 508, 10-8-2024)
7-2-10: RESTORATION OF PROPERTY AND CITY'S COSTS:
A.   Any person or entity, including a permit holder, franchise holder,
utility, or affiliate, shall condemn or utilize only that portion of a public
right-of-way or public way necessary for the purpose intended. They shall leave
undisturbed the area surrounding the condemned or utilized right-of-way or
public way. They shall replace or repair, in kind, any structures, shrubbery,
driveways, embankments, grass and other ground cover, etc., which are altered
or disturbed while installing pipes, wires, ditches, poles, or otherwise using
the public right-of-way or public way and shall regrade the disturbed area to
its original contours.
B.   Any costs, loss, damages or expenses incurred by the city in regrading,
repairing or replacing any structures, etc., as a result of construction
activity as described in this chapter, which are not left in their original
condition by the person or entity may be chargeable to the person or entity,
including reasonable attorney's fees incurred in the collection of such costs
and expenses.
(Ord. 501, 6-11-2024; amd. Ord. 508, 10-8-2024)
7-2-11:    PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or association which violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each separate offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(2010 Code § 20-24; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 501, 6-11-2024; Ord. 508, 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Library Established
7-3-2: Library Board Of Directors
7-3-3: Librarians
7-3-4: Appropriations
7-3-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The public library of the city is hereby established. (2010 Code § 13-1)
7-3-2: LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A.   Established:
   1.   Membership: There is hereby established a library board, which shall
consist of five (5) citizens of the city, and two (2) members who shall live
within the Perkins school district and who shall serve as advisory members of
such library board. (2010 Code § 13-2)
   2.   Citizen Appointments: The city commission shall appoint to the library
board five (5) persons who are citizens of such municipality and whose terms in
office are outlined in subsection B of this section. The members shall be
selected based on their fitness for such office.
   3.   School District Resident Appointments: The city commission shall
appoint to the library board two (2) persons who reside within the limits of
Perkins school district, whose terms in office shall be one year each and which
terms shall each expire December 31 annually. The members shall be selected
based on their fitness for such office. (2010 Code § 13-2; amd. 2012 Code)
   4.   Compensation: The appointed members of the library board shall serve
without compensation or pay, except that any member of said library board who
shall incur reasonable expense at the direction of the city, or in official and
sanctioned furtherance of his duties, shall be entitled to reimbursement in
full by the city. (2010 Code § 13-2)
B.   Terms:
   1.   Members of the library board shall hold office for overlapping terms of
three (3) years each, beginning on May 1 following their appointment, and their
terms shall be staggered; provided, that the first members shall be appointed
to serve as follows:
      a.   One shall be appointed for a term of one year.
      b.   Two (2) shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years.
      c.   Two (2) shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years.
   2.   Appointments thereafter shall be made for terms of three (3) years,
except vacancies on the board occurring otherwise than by expiration of a term
of office shall be filled by appointment by the city commission for the
unexpired term of the member or members whose vacancy is being filled. (2010
Code § 13-4)
C.   Powers And Duties: The library board shall be an advisory board and shall
have the right to consider any matter relating to public libraries, other
library facilities and other library matters, and to make recommendations
thereon to the city commission, and to others as may be appropriate. (2010 Code
§ 13-5)
D.   Removal: Any member of the board of trustees may be removed by the
appointing authority for misconduct or neglect of duty. (2010 Code § 13-6)
E.   Organization: The public library board shall organize annually by electing
a chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary, and further shall adopt from
time to time such bylaws, rules and regulations, and amendments thereto as may
be necessary, subject to approval of the city commission. (2010 Code § 13-7;
amd. 2012 Code)
F.   Funds Received: All monies received by the board on account of the
operation of the library shall be paid to the city clerk, who shall deposit the
same in the municipal treasury. Such monies shall be paid out only upon
warrants authorized by the city commission. (2010 Code § 13-9)
G.   Budget Recommendation: The board shall recommend an annual budget to the
governing body.
H.   General Authority: The board shall set the policy of the library,
supervise and care for the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or
set aside for the library. (2010 Code § 13-8)
I.   Reports Required: The library board of trustees shall make, on or before
July 31 in each year, an annual report to the city commission. Such report
shall include the condition of its trust on June 30; the various sums of money
and property received by the library and how such monies have been expended;
the budget for the library for the next fiscal year; and statistics on the
general character and number of books and periodicals which are on hand, are
lost, have been added and have been loaned out; and the number of persons
making use of the library during the year. A similar report shall be filed at
that time with the state department of libraries on forms supplied by that
department. (2010 Code § 13-10)
7-3-3: LIBRARIANS:
The city manager shall appoint a suitable librarian and assistants, and set
their compensation. (2010 Code § 13-8)
7-3-4: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city commission shall annually appropriate to the library board of
directors from funds available to the city such monies as are deemed necessary
to operate and maintain the library for the education and cultural enrichment
of the citizens. (2010 Code § 13-11)
CHAPTER 4
OUTDOOR SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Special Event Permit Required
7-4-2:    Definitions
7-4-3:    Application Procedure
7-4-4:    Permit Regulations
7-4-5:    Revocation
7-4-1: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or authority to engage in the
conduct of any outdoor special event without first obtaining a permit from the
City Clerk or designee, and paying any fee required as established by the City
Commission by resolution.
   B.   The special event permit may be issued for multiple dates of the same
reoccurring event provided no changes are made to the site plan or number of
vendors and all dates occur within 12 months.
   C.   Outdoor special event permits are not required by this Chapter for use
of City-owned buildings, enclosed structures, park pavilions, ball fields, and
concession stands. Applications for permits to use designated City-owned
buildings, enclosed structures, park pavilions, ball fields, and concession
stands shall be filed with the City Clerk or designee on forms to be furnished
by the City of Perkins. The City Manager is authorized to establish written
permit application and use requirements and regulations applicable to permits
for use of said designated public areas. Fees associated for said permits will
be as established by the City Commission by resolution.
(Ord. 509, 10-8-2024)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them by this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ATHLETIC   An athletic activity involving running, walking and/or cycling and associated
EVENT:     activities conducted over, under, upon and/or across a public right-of-way.
CARNIVAL:  Any public amusement show including rides, games and/or sideshows.
EVENT      Geographic limits of all activities conducted as a part of the special event. For
SITE:      athletic events and parades, it includes the route of the event.
FESTIVAL:  A public celebration featuring cultural exhibitions, competitions, performances,
           art, merchandise and/or vendor sales.
           An event which meets all of the following criteria:
MINOR         1.   Involves the closing of rights-of-way constituting one City block or less;
SPECIAL       2.   Is less than twenty-four (24) hours in duration, including setup and
EVENT:     teardown time;
              3.   Involves less than one hundred (100) participants; and
              4.   Has no impact on traffic and the provision of City services.
MAJOR
SPECIAL    Any special event other than a minor special event.
EVENT:
ORGANIZER: The person or entity in charge of organizing and conducting a permitted outdoor
           special event.
           Any parade, march or procession of any kind in or upon any street right-of-way,
           and any outdoor demonstration of any public meeting, gathering, ceremony, show,
PARADE:    exhibition, picketing, rally, pageant, group or crowd assembled or organized to
           draw public attention for the purpose of conveying a message in or upon any street
           right-of-way or other outdoor public property. Exceptions: funerals, military
           escorts, and oversized equipment escorts.
PUBLIC     Any right-of-way, street, sidewalk, parking area, alley and/or easement conveyed
RIGHTS-OF- or dedicated to the City or to the public use.
WAY:
OUTDOOR    City-owned parks, outdoor areas surrounding enclosed City-owned structures and
PUBLIC     buildings, and public rights-of-way. Excluded: City-owned buildings, enclosed
PROPERTY:  structures, park pavilions, ball fields, and concession stands.
OUTDOOR
SPECIAL    A temporary public assembly involving more than thirty (30) people on outdoor
EVENT,     public property outside the confines of an enclosed structure including but not
SPECIAL    limited to carnivals, festivals, parades and athletic events.
EVENT OR
EVENT:
           A diagram approximately to scale depicting all outdoor public property sought to
SITE PLAN: be closed and/or utilized for the conduct of the event, the location of any
           structure, stand, tent, vehicle, sign, restroom facilities, trash receptacles and/
           or displays to be used while conducting the event.
VENDOR:    Any person or entity engaged in the provision of merchandise, services or food and
           beverages for a fee at any special event or tickets therefore.
 
(Ord. 509, 10-8-2024)
7-4-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applicants for a special event permit under
this Chapter shall file with the City Clerk or designee a verified application
on a form to be furnished by the City of Perkins. Completed applications shall
adequately describe the event site and include a complying site plan.
   B.   The complete application shall be received by the City Clerk not less
than sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the event.
   C.   Applications will be processed in the order in which complete
applications are received. If a scheduling conflict occurs, preference will be
given to long-standing annual events on the customary date.
   D.   The applicant will ensure compliance with all requirements of the
Oklahoma Tax Commission, Oklahoma State Department of Health, Payne County
Court Clerk's Office (county alcohol permit), Oklahoma ABLE Commission and
license requirements for the sale and/or consumption of wine or beer within the
permit area.
   E.   The Police Department, the Fire Department, the Public Works
Department, and the Parks and Recreation Department are responsible for
reviewing and recommending approval or denial of permit applications.
(Ord. 509, 10-8-2024)
7-4-4: PERMIT REGULATIONS:
   A.   The permit shall be subject to, and subordinate to, any franchise for
the use of the public rights-of-way previously or subsequently granted by the
City, and the permit shall further be subject to, and subordinate to, the right
and power of the City to construct, operate and maintain any public utilities
or public facilities in, above and under the public right-of-way.
   B.   During the permit period, the organizer may be authorized to limit
motorized-vehicle access to the event site by the placement of approved
temporary barricades.
   C.   No fee may be charged for admission to an event site conducted on
outdoor public property.
   D.   The organizer is authorized to limit and regulate temporary exhibits,
promotional activities, peddlers, entertainers and vendor sales within the
event site; provided free, unregulated access to residences, permanent
businesses and operations of such businesses on private property within or
adjacent to the event site shall not be inhibited.
   E.   The organizer shall not make or suffer any use or occupancy of the
event site contrary to any law, state statute or City ordinance currently in
effect or hereafter adopted. At all times during the operation of the event,
the organizer shall comply with all written City rules and regulations
applicable to the event and with all requests and requirements made by
representatives of the City Manager, Chief of Police, Fire Chief, and/or
Director of Public Works with respect to security, surveillance and public
safety, traffic control, barricades, pedestrian matters, fire safety and all
matters related thereto; and at all times the foregoing City officials and
their designated agents shall be allowed to fully inspect the operation of the
event and the event site.
   F.   The organizer shall also comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All lane and street closure locations authorized under the permit
shall be shown on the event site plan. All closures shall be in full
conformance with the requirements of the current edition of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      2.   The organizer shall, if applicable, contact the Perkins Police
Department for escort or traffic control.
      3.   Special events shall not encroach upon private property. This
requirement shall in no way limit permissive use of private property.
      4.   There shall be no damage, drilling, painting or construction upon
City streets, sidewalks or other public property unless specifically authorized
in writing in advance by the City Manager or designee.
   G.   The organizer shall bear, pay and discharge all taxes, assessments,
duties, impositions and burdens whatsoever assessed, charged or imposed within
or upon and in connection with the use of the event site by the organizer
except as may be exempted, by local, State or Federal laws or regulations, and
shall deliver to the City the proper and sufficient receipts and other evidence
of the prompt payment and discharge of same, if any, upon request.
   H,   Subject to compliance with all provisions of this Section 7-4-4, the
organizer is authorized to construct, place and maintain chattels within the
event site during the term of the event, and such installation, placement and
maintenance, as well as removal of chattels within the event site shall be at
the sole risk and expense of the organizer.
   I.   The organizer shall dismantle and remove any chattels and shall clean
up all trash and debris from the event site generated by the event within the
term of the permit. In the event the organizer fails to fulfill these
obligations in a timely manner, the City shall have the right to do or have
done such work and recover the cost of such work from the organizer. Further,
failure of the organizer to comply with the provisions of this section shall
constitute grounds for denial of subsequent permit requests.
   J.   The organizer shall assume full responsibility for ensuring the
protection of all City property within the event site, including but not
limited to streets, sidewalks, trees, plants, shrubs, buildings, and the like.
Any damage which may occur to City property will be the responsibility of the
organizer if the same occurs within the event site during the term of the event
and as a result of the event. This section specifically excludes normal wear
and tear as determined by the City.
   K.   The organizer shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of Perkins,
its agents and employees from all claims, suits, actions or judgments,
including but not limited to all expenses, attorneys' fees, witness fees, and
all other costs of defending any such action or claim or appeals therefrom, to
the extent such claims, losses, damages or expenses are caused by the negligent
or intentional acts, errors, or omissions of the organizer, its agents,
employees, invitees, vendors or licensees, or their failure to comply with the
permit rules, regulations and applicable law.
   L.   For major special events, the organizer shall obtain and maintain in
effect an insurance policy with comprehensive general liability coverage
sufficient to pay the City's maximum liability under the Governmental Tort
Claims Act (51 Okla. Stat. §§ 151 et seq.) as it may be amended from time to
time, covering any alleged liability and costs of defense of the City for any
claim under any theory arising in connection with the event. Said coverages
shall be effective during the entire term of the permit on an occurrence basis.
Said insurance policy shall name as additional insured the City of Perkins and,
if required by the City, the Oklahoma Territorial Plaza Trust. Said insurance
policy shall provide that coverage cannot be canceled or materially modified
except upon 10 days' prior written notice to the City of Perkins of said
cancellation or modification. The organizer shall pay any and all insurance
deductibles that are required to be paid under the insurance policy. An
original certificate of insurance with proof of receipt of premium showing
compliance with all of these terms and conditions shall be delivered to the
City Manager at least fifteen (15) days prior to the event date.
(Ord. 509, 10-8-2024)
7-4-5: REVOCATION:
   A.   Any event permit issued under the terms of this Chapter may be revoked
by the City Manager or designee, the Police Chief or designee, and/or the Fire
Chief or designee for grounds, including but not limited to the following:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
      2.   The organizer conducts the event for which the permit has been
issued in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace;
      3.   Cancellation of the event is required due to an emergency, inclement
weather, or other unforeseen circumstance; and/or
      4.   The conduct of the event has caused, will cause or will have the
effect of an imminent threat to public health, safety and/or general welfare.
   B.   Upon revocation of the permit, the organizer shall immediately
terminate the conduct of the event and dismantle and remove any chattels and/or
obstructions located in any outdoor public property and the event site, and
return the outdoor public property to the original condition before the event.
(Ord. 509, 10-8-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
CREDIT AND COLLECTION POLICIES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Discontinuation Of Utility Service
8-1-1: DISCONTINUATION OF UTILITY SERVICE:
A.   1. Charges for utility services shall be due and payable monthly according
to dates to be determined by the city. Each monthly bill shall have printed
thereon the due date. In addition to the assessment of any late payment charge,
if a monthly bill is not paid by the due date indicated therein, the account
shall be subject to disconnection for nonpayment. Utility service shall be
discontinued for any customer who owes any past due amount of utility services
or any part of a charge for utility services, including late payment charges.
   2.   The city may disconnect utility service to a customer for the reasons
set forth below. Disconnection may take place at any time during normal working
hours on the day designated for disconnect. Notification of impending
discontinuation of service shall be given in writing or such other notification
as the city deems necessary and appropriate. Failure to accept or acknowledge
notification shall not be cause for delay of the disconnection.
      a.   A delinquency of greater than nine (9) days on a bill, or any
portion of a bill, including any bill for service rendered by the city to the
customer at any premises for any utility service;
      b.   Refusal by the consumer to provide the city reasonable access to its
equipment upon consumer's premises in accordance with these terms and
conditions;
      c.   Violation of any rule or regulation of the city or noncompliance
with any applicable federal, state, municipal or other local laws, rules or
regulations;
      d.   Violation of or noncompliance with an approved rule of service of
the city, including these terms and conditions;
      e.   Failure of the consumer to make application and place a deposit for
service;
      f.   Failure of the consumer to make application for utility service in
the true name of the consumer for the purpose of avoiding payment of any unpaid
obligation for utility service provided; (2010 Code § 19-57)
      g.   Returned checks or ACH debit payments; (Ord. 375, 5-11-2010)
      h.   Failure of the consumer, upon request, to provide the city with a
deposit.
B.   The city may discontinue utility service without advance notice to a
consumer for any of the reasons set forth below:
   1.   Existence of a dangerous or defective condition of equipment on
consumer's premises;
   2.   Fraudulent use of municipal utility services;
   3.   Tampering with the city's regulating and measuring equipment or other
property. (2010 Code § 19-57)
C.   In the case of discontinuation of service, the following procedures shall
apply, except as otherwise provided for in subsection A of this section:
A written notice stating the reason for such discontinuance shall be sent by
mail to the address of the customer as shown on the city records. Said notice
shall be mailed no more than two (2) days after the billing due date and will
state the impending disconnect date for nonpayment. Said notice shall notify
the customer that should the customer disagree with the reasons for the
discontinuance that the customer has the right to meet with the city clerk and
present any reasons that the customer may have that such notice is incorrect
and in error. In the case of error on the part of the city, the city clerk
shall have the power to revoke the notice of discontinuance.
D.   1. In the event any customer should offer payment for any monthly bill, or
portion thereof, by means of a check or ACH debit payment which is not honored
on account of insufficient funds of the marker to pay same, or because the
check is drawn on a closed account or on a nonexistent account, or otherwise
dishonored, a check or ACH service charge in the amount of twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be charged to that customer's account and collected as a service
charge for proper handling and administration. A written notice will be sent
informing the customer of impending disconnection and added service charge.
Failure to pay the entire amount of the outstanding utility bill, including any
service charge, within ten (10) days of the written notice will result in
immediate disconnection of utility service.
   2.   In the event that a check or ACH debit payment written on a closed
account is made to the city, payment of each monthly bill for such customer or
consumer for the next twelve (12) month period of ensuing service shall be made
and accepted only when tendered by certified or cashier's check or cash.
   3.   In the event that two (2) dishonored checks or ACH debit payments,
other than a check or ACH debit payment written on a closed account, are made
to the city within any last preceding twelve (12) month period, payment of each
monthly bill for such customer or consumer for the next twelve (12) month
period of ensuing service shall be made and accepted only when tendered by
certified or cashier's check or cash. (Ord. 375, 5-11-2010)
   4.   Failure to comply with any extension agreement will result in
disconnection of service without further notice and no additional extension
will be granted for one year from the date of the broken agreement.
E.   Business cutoff:
   1.   Weather does not affect cutoff;
   2.   No cutoffs on Friday.
F.   Residential cutoffs:
   1.   No cutoffs on Friday.
G.   Once service has been disconnected, payment of the entire balance on the
account is required, together with the appropriate service call charge, before
service will be resumed.
H.   Service reconnections will be made during normal business hours.
I.   Any extensions of time for payment must be approved by city manager.
J.   If cutoff is delayed because of extreme emergencies (weather, etc.),
service may be cut on the next working day without further notice.
K.   In the event any customer should fail to make payment on any monthly
billing so that said bill is over thirty (30) days in arrears, the city manager
shall notify the customer or consumer at the address shown on the city records
that the customer shall, within five (5) working days, contact the city clerk
to make satisfaction of said bill. Should the customer or consumer fail to
comply, the city manager shall be directed at his earliest opportunity to refer
said customer's bill for legal collection procedures. (2010 Code § 19-57; amd.
2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITY CUSTOMERS MEDICAL SERVICE PROGRAM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Medical Service Program And Fee
8-2-3: Nonparticipation Election
8-2-4: Receipt Of Service Charges
8-2-5: Accountability For Funds Received
8-2-6: Adjustment Of Charges
8-2-7: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
                                  Any person, company, corporation or other
                                  entity that owns or manages single-family
LANDLORD:                         and/or multi-family residential living
                                  units and leases them to tenants and is
                                  responsible for payment of the utility
                                  bills for the living units.
                                  A residential unit providing complete,
                                  independent living facilities for a
LIVING UNIT:                      family, including permanent provisions for
                                  living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
                                  sanitation.
                                  The services, products, expertise,
                                  equipment and cost associated with the
MEDICAL SERVICE PROGRAM:          Western Payne County Ambulance Trust
                                  Authority resident benefit program, billed
                                  monthly on a utility customer bill.
                                  A Perkins utility customer with two (2) or
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UTILITY  more living units served by one city
CUSTOMER:                         utility bill; provided, multi-family
                                  residential living units will not include
                                  hotels or motels.
                                  Shall be from February 1 through January
                                  31 of a calendar year. Each program year
                                  shall be designated by the calendar year
PROGRAM YEAR:                     in which the program year begins and the
                                  year in which the program year expires
                                  (e.g., February 1, 2010 through January
                                  31, 2011, shall be designated program year
                                  2010/2011).
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UTILITY A Perkins utility customer with one living
CUSTOMER:                         unit receiving one city utility bill.
                                  The person or persons that sign the lease
                                  for a living unit at a specific location
TENANT:                           within the city limits of Perkins, which
                                  living unit receives Perkins utility
                                  services.
                                  Shall include all the individuals
TENANT HOUSEHOLD:                 permanently residing together in the
                                  leased living unit with the tenant.
                                  The person or persons that established a
UTILITY CUSTOMER:                 utility account with Perkins for utility
                                  services for a single-family residential
                                  or multi-family residential living unit.
                                  Shall include all individuals permanently
                                  residing together in a living unit at a
UTILITY CUSTOMER HOUSEHOLD:       specific location within the city limits
                                  of Perkins, which living unit receives
                                  Perkins utility services.
                                  The program, as it currently exists or may
                                  hereafter be amended, which is sponsored
WPCATA PROGRAM:                   by Western Payne County Ambulance Trust
                                  Authority. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd. Ord.
                                  512, 3-11-2025)
 
8-2-2: MEDICAL SERVICE PROGRAM AND FEE:
A.   Each single-family residential utility customer and multi-family
residential utility customer within the corporate limits of the city shall be
included in the medical services program, unless the utility customer
affirmatively declines participation in said program in the manner set forth in
section
8-2-3 of this chapter.
B.   Beginning with the utility bills sent in July 2025, single-family
residential utility customers participating in the program shall have included
within their utility bills a charge of six dollars ($6.00) per month.
C.   Beginning with the utility bills sent in July 2025, Multi-family
residential utility customers participating in the program shall be billed six
dollars ($6.00) per month per living unit.
D.   The total number of living units attributed to multi-family residential
utility customers and landlords shall be based upon the number of living units
on record with the city utilities department. It is the responsibility of all
multi-family residential utility customers and landlords to annually confirm
with the utilities department whether this number of living units is in fact
accurate. Adjustments may be made to the number of living units on record with
the utilities department based on information provided by sworn affidavit from
the multi-family residential utility customer or landlord and confirmed by the
city. Multi-family residential utility customers and landlords shall make staff
available to meet at the subject residences with city utilities department
personnel to confirm the number of living units as provided for by the utility
customer in the sworn affidavit mentioned herein. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd.
Ord. 512, 3-11-2025)
8-2-3: NONPARTICIPATION ELECTION:
A.   Any utility customer who desires to not participate in the medical
services program shall sign and file a declaration of nonparticipation, on
forms prescribed and provided by the city .
B.   If a multi-family residential utility customer or landlord, or his or her
authorized representative, elects for a property not to participate in the
medical service program, the multi-family residential utility customer or
landlord, or his or her authorized representative, shall obtain from each
tenant a written and signed acknowledgment stating that the tenant: 1)
understands that the tenant and the tenant household are not included in the
medical service program; 2) understands that the tenant may affirmatively elect
to personally participate in the medical service program by contacting the city
and enrolling in the program at the same price as offered to participating
single-family residential utility customers; 3) understands that failure to
participate in the program will subject the tenant and tenant household to the
full costs associated with Western Payne County Ambulance Trust Authority
services; and 4) has been informed of the estimated per trip costs for an
emergency ambulance transport run. The written and signed acknowledgment
described herein shall be maintained in the multi-family residential utility
customer or landlord, or his/her authorized representative, records and
available for inspection by the city upon request. This acknowledgment must be
obtained for all tenants existing at the beginning of the program year and all
new tenants moving into the landlord or multi-family residential utility
customer's property at any time during the program year.
C.   Failure to obtain and maintain on file the written acknowledgment for each
tenant shall be a separate violation of this section. In addition, every thirty
(30) day period from the beginning of a lease until written acknowledgment is
received or the multi-family residential utility customer or landlord, or his/
her authorized representative, elects for a property to participate in the
medical service program shall constitute a separate offense for each tenant
affected. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd. Ord. 512, 3-11-2025)
8-2-4: RECEIPT OF SERVICE CHARGES:
The service charges herein established for the medical service program shall be
billed to each utility customer monthly, along with the bill for other city
utility services, and shall carry the same due date as now or may hereafter be
established for utility service bills. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd. Ord. 512, 3-
11-2025)
8-2-5: ACCOUNTABILITY FOR FUNDS RECEIVED:
The city is not responsible for either the provision of services by Western
Payne County Ambulance Trust Authority resident benefit program or the WPCATA
program. The city's sole responsibility is to properly receive, record and
transfer to Western Payne County Ambulance Trust Authority the funds paid by
the participating utility customers for benefits under the medical service
program. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd. Ord. 512, 3-11-2025)
8-2-6: ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES:
Any utility customer who considers the medical service program charges
applicable to his/her living unit to be erroneous because said utility customer
opted out of the program, may request review of the charges by the city
utilities department. Additionally, any landlord or multi-family residential
utility customer who encounters special circumstances that would justify
modifying the number of occupied living units determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
8-2-2 of this chapter (such as fire, act of God or renovations) may request
review thereof by the city utilities department. Any other problems experienced
by the utility customer with regard to his/her WPCATA program benefits shall be
referred to the chairperson of the WPCATA or his/her designee. (Ord. 381, 11-9-
2010; amd. Ord. 512, 3-11-2025)
8-2-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person or corporation violating
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 381, 11-9-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 512, 3-11-2025)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SYSTEM AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Scope Of Service
8-3-2: Water Department; Duties
8-3-3: Connection To City System Required; Distance
8-3-4: Separate Connections Required; Exception
8-3-5: Multiple Service
8-3-6: Application For Service; Fee
8-3-7: Deposits
8-3-8: Water Rates
8-3-9: Installation Of Water Service Fees
8-3-10: Service Extension
8-3-11: Construction Rates
8-3-12: Due Date
8-3-13: Water Turned On Only By Authority Of City Manager
8-3-14: Water Meters
8-3-15: Service For Fire Protection
8-3-16: Maintenance Of Service Lines
8-3-17: Private Lines
8-3-18: Use Of Another Water Supply; Cross Connections
8-3-19: Access To Premises
8-3-20: Water Shortage
8-3-21: Use Of Water
8-3-22: Pipe Requirements
8-3-23: Service Keys To Licensed Plumbers
8-3-24: Interference With Fire Hydrants
8-3-25: Destruction Of System Prohibited
8-3-26: City May Cut Off Service At Any Time
8-3-27: Fraudulent Use Of Service; Penalty
8-3-1: SCOPE OF SERVICE:
A.   The rates, rules and regulations hereinafter prescribed shall constitute
and be considered a part of the contract with every person, firm, organization
or corporation who is supplied with water from the waterworks system of the
city; and every person, firm, organization or corporation, hereinafter called
the customer, who accepts and uses water shall be held to have consented to be
bound hereby.
B.   All applications for water service shall be made by the customer to the
utilities department and upon acceptance of the application, the department
shall as promptly as practicable supply the customer with service in accordance
with the rates, rules, terms, regulations and all provisions of this chapter.
C.   The applicant agrees to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
D.   All police powers of the city and all ordinances relating to health and
the rules and regulations pertaining to water, waterworks, control and water
pollution control of the city, together with all laws and regulations of the
state relating to health, water and water control of cities shall apply to all
lands within the corporate limits and all lands, properties and parcels which
receive, purchase and are supplied water by the city. (2010 Code § 19-1)
8-3-2: WATER DEPARTMENT; DUTIES:
A.   Created: The water department shall be under the control of the city
manager, who may from time to time as he sees fit appoint certain employees to
conduct the duties of that department. The water department shall have charge
of the control, operation, repair, maintenance and improvement of the physical
plant of the water system, testing, reading, repair and setting of meters, and
line extensions.
B.   Water Department Clerk: The city clerk shall be the clerk of the water
department and shall have charge of all the ordinary financial operations of
the water system as a business enterprise, such as billing for water rents, the
collection of fees for taps, materials, line extensions when the cost is born
by the consumer, water deposits, water rents, penalties and other money payable
to the city for the ordinary financial operations of the water system, and the
keeping of proper accounts. The city clerk shall issue all permits, turn on
orders, cut off orders and other orders relative to the ordinary financial
operations of the water system. The conduct of the city clerk's duties under
this chapter are to be always under the supervision of the city manager. (2010
Code § 19-2)
8-3-3: CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM REQUIRED; DISTANCE:
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties located within one hundred
feet (100') of any city water distribution system and which structure is used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, and is situated
within the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable water
supply facilities thereon, and to connect such facilities directly with the
city water distribution system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, that connection to private water sources will only be
permitted when the premises is outside of the one hundred foot (100')
requirement. (2010 Code § 19-19; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-4: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
Every separate premises supplied with water by the city must have its own
separate service connection, unless the city manager grants permission for two
(2) or more such premises to receive water from the city through one service
connection. The city manager may withdraw such permission at any time. (2010
Code § 19-10)
8-3-5: MULTIPLE SERVICE:
Where buildings or premises are occupied by more than one customer, the city
will set as many meters as there are separate applications for service, and
will connect the meters to one service, providing the service is large enough
to furnish an ample supply for all customers. Distribution lines for the
building or premises shall be so arranged as to permit the installation of
meters adjacent to each other. (2010 Code § 19-61)
8-3-6: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; FEE:
A.   Application: Any person desiring to have a premises connected with the
water supply system of the city shall make application therefor at the city
clerk's office upon a form to be furnished for that purpose. The application
shall contain the description of the premises where such water is to be used
and shall be signed by the person desiring water service, or by his duly
authorized agent, and shall be filed in the city clerk's office. (2010 Code §
19-3)
B.   New Service Fee: The city shall, at the time of the making of said
application, charge a new service fee as established by resolution of the city
commission, which fee shall be for the costs of connecting said consumer water
service. (2010 Code § 19-3; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-7: DEPOSITS:
A.   Deposit Required: At the time of making application and signing the
contract for water service, the applicant shall pay a deposit to the city clerk
as established by resolution of the city commission. (2010 Code § 19-4; amd.
2012 Code)
B.   Refund Of Deposit: The deposit shall be refunded by the city clerk to the
customer upon termination of use of service; provided, that customer has paid
all bills due to the department but, if the meter is damaged in any way except
by ordinary wear, the whole of such or so much thereof as is necessary to pay
the amount due the department shall be deducted from the deposit. The city
clerk may require the identification of the person surrendering the deposit
receipt. In case a customer loses the deposit receipt, the city clerk will
require that the customer sign a release acknowledging return of the deposit.
(2010 Code § 19-23)
C.   Disposition Of Deposits Not Withdrawn:
   1.   Utility deposit refund checks or warrants of five dollars ($5.00) or
less shall be cashed by the customer within one year of the termination of the
utility service. Any such refund check or warrant not cashed by the customer
within one year of termination of the utility service shall be canceled and the
amount of the deposit shall be paid into the city general fund. No municipal
utility customer shall have the right to any claim or refund on the deposit
following the expiration of the one year time period as set forth herein.
   2.   If a utility deposit refund check or warrant in excess of five dollars
($5.00) has not been cashed by a customer within one year following termination
of the utility service to the customer, the city shall send written notice to
the customer at the last known address of the customer stating that the refund
check or warrant shall be canceled and the deposit will be paid over to the
city unless it is cashed by the customer within ninety (90) days of the date
the notice is mailed by the city. If the check or warrant is not cashed within
the ninety (90) days, the check or warrant shall be canceled and the amount of
the deposit shall be paid into the city general fund. No municipal utility
customer shall have a right to any claim or refund on the deposit after written
notice and expiration of the ninety (90) day period in accordance with this
subsection. (2010 Code § 19-24)
8-3-8: WATER RATES:
There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential, commercial,
and bulk user of water such amounts as set by the city commission by motion or
resolution. The city commission is further authorized and directed to implement
a surcharge on each residential and commercial account for the purposes of
defraying the expense of purchasing water from third party sources and the cost
of administration of such agreements. (Ord. 393, 6-12-2012)
8-3-9: INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE FEES:
Fees for the installation from the main to the curb lines, hereafter provided,
shall be at the cost of said installation to the city. For purposes hereof,
costs shall include, but be limited to, material costs, labor costs, equipment
costs and rental fees. For all services larger than two inches (2"), the charge
will be the actual costs thereof complete in place, plus fifteen percent (15%)
for supervision, tools and machinery furnished in performance thereof. When
services are laid under pavement, an additional charge shall be made to cover
costs of cutting, repairing and replacing the pavement. (2010 Code § 19-5)
8-3-10: SERVICE EXTENSION:
A.   Furnished, Installed By City: All water service pipe is to be furnished
and installed by the city from the water main to the water meter location,
pursuant to section
8-3-9 of this chapter.
B.   Size And Type Designated By City: The city shall designate the size and
type of service pipe for all water services, and the city shall designate the
point at which a customer's service may be connected to the city water main.
C.   Individual Service Pipe; Exception: Each property shall have its own
service pipe, except that joint service across or along the public streets may
be allowed when the property to be served does not abut the street along which
the water main is laid.
D.   Meters Property Of City: All meters shall remain the property of the city
and may be removed from the customer's premises at any time, without notice,
for the purpose of testing or repairing the same or upon discontinuation of the
service. (2010 Code § 19-59)
8-3-11: CONSTRUCTION RATES:
When city water is used for construction, the regular rates shall apply where
the water is metered. (2010 Code § 19-7)
8-3-12: DUE DATE:
All bills for utility services shall be due on the twelfth day after the
billing date of the utility bill for services rendered during the preceding
month billing period. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a customer
from his obligation to pay within the time specified. It is the duty of the
customer, whether he be owner or tenant, to keep the city clerk advised in
writing of his correct mailing address. (2010 Code § 19-8)
8-3-13: WATER TURNED ON ONLY BY AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER:
When water has been shut off from any premises by application of the owner
thereof, for the nonpayment of water charges, or for any other cause, it shall
be unlawful for any person again to connect such premises with water except
when authorized to do so by the city manager. When water is so turned on
without such authority, the water department may then shut off the water at the
main or remove a portion of the service connection at the cock; and if the
water was turned on thus by the consumer or by his authority, he shall be
charged the actual cost of cutting out and reinstating the water supply. (2010
Code § 19-16)
8-3-14: WATER METERS:
A.   Required; Ownership: It shall be unlawful for a plumber or any other
person to make a connection to, or use water from, the city water system until
a meter has been set. All meters installed by the city shall belong to the
city, regardless of size. (2010 Code § 19-11)
B.   Meter Boxes:
   1.   Furnished, Installed By City: All meters and meter boxes are to be
furnished and installed by the city and the actual cost of the same charged to
the customer.
   2.   Location: All meters are to be located outside of buildings in a
suitable place and upon public easements and protected from freezing, and
easily accessible for reading, except in those cases where it is deemed more
advantageous to the city that the meter be located at a point determined by the
division superintendent. (2010 Code § 19-60)
C.   Maintenance; Failure: In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost,
injured or broken by wilful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners
or occupants of premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of
the owners or occupants of the premises. In the event of a meter getting out of
order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an
estimate made by the city manager of the average monthly consumption during the
last three (3) months when the meter was in good condition, or from what he may
consider to be the most reliable data at his command. (2010 Code § 19-13; amd.
2012 Code)
D.   Tampering: No one except an authorized employee of the utilities
department shall be permitted to remove or work on the meter or connections. If
at any time the department finds that a meter or other equipment used in
furnishing water service to the customer has been tampered with by any one
except an employee of the department, it shall be considered sufficient cause
for immediate discontinuation of service. (2010 Code § 19-25)
8-3-15: SERVICE FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
Service for fire protection must be fitted for such fixtures only as are needed
for fire protection and entirely disconnected from those used for other
purposes. (2010 Code § 19-18)
8-3-16: MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES:
All service lines between the main and the curb cock shall be maintained by and
at the expense of the city. If a meter is not set at the end of the service
lines and connections between the end of the service and the meter shall be
maintained by the city, but the actual cost of said maintenance shall be
charged to the customer. (2010 Code § 19-9; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-17: PRIVATE LINES:
All private lines shall be maintained by and at the expense of the owner. When
the water department notifies the owner that there is a leak in his private
line, the owner shall have the same repaired immediately, and in case of
failure to do so, the water will be cut off until the line has been repaired.
(2010 Code § 19-14)
8-3-18: USE OF ANOTHER WATER SUPPLY; CROSS CONNECTIONS:
A.   No service may be allowed from the city water mains to any premises
supplied by water from other source unless the city manager grants permission;
and the city manager may terminate such permission at any time. The city
manager shall have power to prescribe reasonable regulations for the use of
water from another source on premises that have a connection with the city
water system.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause a
connection to be made or to allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever
between the city water supply and any other source of supply. Every person,
firm or corporation having any other source of water supply upon his or its
premises is required to make a customer's declaration of nonexistence of cross
connection upon a form supplied by the water department before he or it shall
be permitted to obtain or continue to use water from the city water system.
City water shall be discontinued upon any premises upon which there is found to
be a connection between the city water supply and another water supply; and
such service shall not be restored until such cross connection has been
discontinued. (2010 Code § 19-19)
8-3-19: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
A.   All meters shall remain the property of the city and may be removed from
the customer's premises at any time, without notice, for the purpose of testing
or repairing the same or upon discontinuation of the service.
B.   Employees of the utilities department shall have the right to enter, at
any reasonable hour, upon all premises served by the department for the purpose
of reading the meters, inspection of the meter, pipes and valves, and other
purposes that may be necessary to maintain proper service. (2010 Code § 19-22)
8-3-20: WATER SHORTAGE:
A.   In case of emergency caused by a shortage of water in the city water
system, it shall be the duty of the city manager immediately to give notice by
publication to the water consumers of the system not to use water obtained from
the system for any purpose other than for such use as he may designate so long
as the water shortage lasts. Thereafter and until he proclaims the emergency at
an end, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, during the
existence of the emergency, to use water obtained from the city water system
for any purpose other than such uses as he may have designated.
B.   The first violation of such rationing shall result in a warning and the
second and each subsequent violation shall result in a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00). (2010 Code § 19-21)
8-3-21: USE OF WATER:
A.   Any person upon whose premises there is water supplied shall not install
additional fixtures on said premises or apply the water to purposes other than
to those for which the application was made, or to furnish water to additional
families or persons, organizations, associations or corporations or premises.
(2010 Code § 19-58)
B.   Water delivered to consumers from the city water pipes shall be for use
upon the premises of the consumer. (2010 Code § 19-58; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-22: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
All persons connected with the city water system or laying their own private
pipe shall be required to use type K copper, galvanized or schedule 40 plastic
potable water pipe up to and including two inches (2") in size. All pipes shall
be laid not less than two feet (2') below the surface of the ground, except in
ungraded streets where the grade is already established, the pipes shall be
laid at least two feet (2') below the established grade. (2010 Code § 19-12)
8-3-23: SERVICE KEYS TO LICENSED PLUMBERS:
The city manager may permit any licensed plumber to have a service key, which
he shall keep in his possession and with which he may shut off the curb cock
for the purpose of making repairs on the premises. No person other than a
licensed plumber shall use this key, and plumbers shall leave a curb cock in
the condition in which it was found. (2010 Code § 19-15; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-24: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the
city manager or a member of the fire department, to open, turn off or on,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect any thing with any fire
hydrant or stop cock belonging to the city.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by playing around or placing thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other things, or in
any other manner. (2010 Code § 19-20)
8-3-25: DESTRUCTION OF SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized by the city
manager, to disturb, displace, interfere with, cover up, damage or destroy a
water main, water pipe, meter, meter box, machinery, tools, building, fire
hydrant, curb cock, curb box or any other property belonging to, connected with
or under control of the municipal water supply system. (2010 Code § 19-13)
8-3-26: CITY MAY CUT OFF SERVICE AT ANY TIME:
The city reserves the right at any time without notice to cut off the water
supply for repairs, extension, nonpayment of rents, creating a nuisance, use of
such water creating unsafe or unsanitary purposes, use of such water for
illegal purposes or any other proper cause; and the city shall not be
responsible for any damage, such as bursting of boilers supplied by direct
pressure, the breaking of any pipes or fixtures, stoppages or interruptions of
water supply, or any other damage resulting from the shutting off of water.
(2010 Code § 19-17)
8-3-27: FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE; PENALTY:
A.   No person, firm, organization, association or corporation shall unlawfully
use water supplied by the water department without paying therefor, nor break
the seal of any water meter or valve, nor install piping, make connections or
attach pipes to service lines in a manner so that water may be secured without
being supplied under the terms of this chapter.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, association or
corporation upon whose premises there is water supplied to install additional
fixtures on said premises, or to apply the water to purposes other than to
those for which the application was made, or to furnish water to additional
families, firms, organizations or corporations, or premises, unless said
person, firm, organization or corporation or premises shall first make written
application to the city and receive permission for said use. Water delivered to
consumers from the water conduit shall be for use upon the individual premises
of the consumer only, and shall not be resold or delivered for use off the
premises of the consumer. Service is for the exclusive use of the customer, and
is not to be resold or shared with others; provided, however, that nothing
contained in this provision shall be construed to cover house trailers or
mobile homes, or any water resold under and by virtue of a special contract
entered into by the city and signed by the mayor thereof.
C.   No person, firm, organization, association or corporation shall deface,
injure or destroy any pipe, meter, valve, hydrant or other property of the
city.
D.   No person, firm, organization, association or corporation shall in any way
allow submetering of the water lines of the city without prior written approval
of the city. (2010 Code § 19-26)
E.   Any person, firm, organization, association or corporation who violates
any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate day of such violation, for purposes
hereunder, shall be deemed a separate offense. (2010 Code § 19-26; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-4-1: Declaration Of Public Utility
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Lease Of Sewer System
8-4-4: Sewer Service Charge And Collection
8-4-5: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-4-6: Unlawful Discharges
8-4-7: Privies, Septic Tanks Unlawful
8-4-8: Facilities Within Two Hundred Fifty Feet Of Public Sewer
8-4-9: Private Sewage Disposal
8-4-10: Unauthorized Connections; Permit Required
8-4-11: Costs Borne By Owner
8-4-12: Usage Of Old Building Sewers
8-4-13: Plumbing Code Requirements
8-4-14: Drain Connections To Sewer Prohibited
8-4-15: Excavations To Be Guarded; Restoration Of Public Property
8-4-16: Stormwater And Similar Drainage Prohibited
8-4-17: Sewer Main Extensions
8-4-18: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY:
The sanitary sewage system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system and for other purposes. (2010 Code § 19-27)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are to be used and
interpreted as defined hereinafter:
   CUSTOMER: The owner or property served by a water connection, or tenant,
lessee, renter, establishment, institution or occupant of such property, or the
person in or against whose name the water connection for such property is
listed on the books and records of the city of Perkins and who is responsible
to the city for the payment of bills incurred for water furnished to the
property, and for by such property of the sanitary sewage system of the city,
either or both.
   SANITARY SEWAGE: The liquid waste which may or may not contain solids
discharged into the sanitary sewage system from a dwelling, business building,
factory, institution, or other property.
   SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM: Includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines, main lines,
submain lines, lateral lines, and sewage treatment plants, and all sewer lines
connected to the city sewage treatment plants, whether owned by the city or
not.
   USER: A water customer, as defined in this section, whose property also
discharges sanitation into the sanitary sewage system of the city of Perkins.
(2010 Code § 19-28)
8-4-3: LEASE OF SEWER SYSTEM:
The city hereby determines to enter into and the mayor and city clerk hereby
are authorized and directed to execute and affix the seal of the city to a
lease to the Perkins water and sewer trust, the sanitary sewer system of the
city, said part of such system being described as follows: All of the sanitary
sewer system belonging to the city. (2010 Code § 19-31)
8-4-4: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE AND COLLECTION:
A.   Charges Established: For the purpose of providing funds for the
maintenance of the sanitary sewer system and for other purposes, there shall be
charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system as set by the city commission
by motion or resolution. (2010 Code § 19-29)
B.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the above sewer service charge are provided as
follows:
Each user of the sanitary sewage system of the city whose property or premises
may be located outside the corporate limits of said city shall pay as a sewer
service charge a sum equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the sum
computed under the provisions of subsection A of this section. The city does
not obligate itself to furnish sanitary sewer service to any persons
whomsoever, but will furnish such service as is reasonable within its financial
ability to do. (2010 Code § 19-29.1)
C.   Collections: The sewer service charge for the use of the sanitary sewerage
system shall be billed to each user monthly, along with the bill for water and
other services, and the city clerk is hereby directed not to accept payment of
the bill for water and other services unless such payment is accompanied with
the sewer service charge. The failure to pay a sewer service charge when due
shall be cause for discontinuing and disconnecting either the sewer or all of
the connections in accordance with the procedures established in chapter 1 of
this title. (2010 Code § 19-30; amd. 2012 Code)
8-4-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste. (2010 Code § 19-32)
8-4-6: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES:
A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city of
Perkins, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or
other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge, cause to be discharged, or allow there
to be discharged any sewage or other polluted waters onto the open ground, into
a public street, public way or alley, or any other public place.
C.   The city shall have the right to cut off, without notice, the water supply
to any person, firm or corporation that shall allow sewage or other polluted
waters to be discharged in violation of the provisions of this section. (2010
Code § 19-33)
8-4-7: PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS UNLAWFUL:
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage. (2010 Code § 19-34)
8-4-8: FACILITIES WITHIN TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET OF PUBLIC SEWER:
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required, at his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities thereon,
and to connect such directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the property line. (2010 Code § 19-35; amd. 2012 Code)
8-4-9: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
A.   Connection: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of section
8-4-8 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter. (2010
Code § 19-36; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   Permit Required Before Construction: Before commencement of construction
of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the county health department. The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the health department, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are
deemed necessary by the health department. (2010 Code § 19-37)
C.   Inspections, Requirements: A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the county health department. Representatives shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the health department when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
(2010 Code § 19-38)
D.   State Requirements: The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state
department of public health. No septic tanks or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet. (2010 Code § 19-39)
E.   Abandoning Private Septic Tanks Upon Connection: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private disposal system, as
provided in section
 8-4-9 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (2010 Code § 19-40)
F.   Operation Of Private Sewage Facilities: The owner shall operate and
maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times at no expense to the city. (2010 Code § 19-41)
G.   Additional Requirements May Be Imposed: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the health officer. (2010 Code § 19-42)
H.   Filling Private Sewers: When a public sewer becomes available, the
building sewer shall be connected to said sewer and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean ban-run gravel or dirt.
(2010 Code § 19-43)
8-4-10: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the city manager. (2010 Code § 19-43)
8-4-11: COSTS BORNE BY OWNER:
All costs and expense incident to the installations and connections of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (2010 Code § 19-44)
8-4-12: USAGE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination by the city manager, to meet all requirements of this
chapter. (2010 Code § 19-46)
8-4-13: PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Construction: The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the international plumbing code. (2010 Code § 19-47; amd. 2012
Code)
B.   Connection: The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the international plumbing code. (2010
Code § 19-50; amd. 2012 Code)
8-4-14: DRAIN CONNECTIONS TO SEWER PROHIBITED:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer. (2010 Code § 19-49)
8-4-15: EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Street,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (2010 Code § 19-
51)
8-4-16: STORMWATER AND SIMILAR DRAINAGE PROHIBITED:
A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
B.   There shall be a check valve installed in the private sanitary sewer line
of any and all new or replacement sanitary sewer lines or sanitary sewer
systems installed within the city. Such check valve shall be designated to
minimize or eliminate sewage from running back into any private residence,
apartment, commercial or public building, or other structure, and the owner of
such property shall keep such check valve in good repair at all times. (2010
Code § 19-52)
8-4-17: SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
A.   Application: Every person, firm, or corporation desiring a sewer main
extension, whether inside or outside the corporate limits of the City of
Perkins, shall make written application to the city commission for approval of
such extension. The application shall be accompanied by a sketch or drawing of
the tract to be served, proposed location of the new main, location of existing
sewer mains in close proximity thereto, and the proposed point of connection to
the existing sanitary sewer system of the city.
B.   Specifications And Approval: All sewer main extensions shall be
constructed according to city specifications and approved by the city and state
department of health.
C.   Costs: The costs of sewer main extensions shall be borne as follows: The
developer and/or owner of a tract shall bear the entire cost of a sewer main
adequate in size, as determined by the city, to serve the tract that he is
developing or desires to serve; provided, that in no event shall a main of less
than eight inches (8") in diameter be considered adequate. If the city desires
that the sewer main be larger than is necessary to serve said tract, the city
may, if funds are available, pay the additional cost of said main. All such
sewer main extensions upon completion shall become the sole and exclusive
property of the city and shall be operated and maintained as a part of the city
sanitary sewer system. (2010 Code §§ 19-54 through 19-56; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
499, 3-12-2024; Ord. 503, 7-9-2024)
8-4-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be served by the city of Perkins with a
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(2010 Code § 19-53)
B.   Misdemeanor: Any person who shall commit any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code, for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (2010 Code § 19-53; amd.
2012 Code)
C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
to the city by reason of such violation. (2010 Code § 19-53)
CHAPTER 5
FATS, OILS AND GREASE CONTROL
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Applicability And Prohibitions
8-5-3: Scope And Applicability
8-5-4: Interceptor Design
8-5-5: Generator Requirements
8-5-6: Transporters Requirements
8-5-7: Cleaning Schedule
8-5-8: Fee
8-5-9: Enforcement
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
                             A list of all transporters approved by the city to
APPROVED TRANSPORTERS' LIST: operate within the sewage treatment plant's
                             collection area.
BYPASS:                      Any overflow of any amount from the city's
                             sanitary sewer collection system.
                             The practice of returning wastewater from the
DECANTING:                   transporter truck back into the grease
                             interceptor, oil/water separator or grit trap
                             after it is vacuumed out.
                             A user of the sanitary sewer system occupying a
DOMESTIC USER:               residential unit and discharging only normal
                             domestic sewage.
                             A commercial business that generates FOG, waste
FACILITY:                    oil, grit and/or other petroleum waste, or
                             discharges wet wipes and/or paper towels into the
                             city's sewer system.
 
FOG:                        Fats, oils and greases.
                            Any person who owns or operates a grease trap/
                            grease interceptor, or whose act or process
GENERATOR:                  produces a grease trap waste, or a business with an
                            oil/water separator and/or grit trap or discharges
                            wet wipes and/or paper towels into the city sewer
                            system.
                            A device designed to use differences in specific
                            gravities to separate and retain light density
                            liquids, waterborne fats, oils and greases or
GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR: designed to collect settable solids, generated by
                            and from food preparation activities, prior to the
                            wastewater entering the sanitary sewer collection
                            system.
                            A mechanical device used to shred solid substances
GRINDER:                    to pieces less than one-half inch (0.5") in any
                            dimension.
NEW FACILITY:               A newly constructed facility and/or the remodeling
                            and/or expansion of an existing facility.
NONDOMESTIC USER:           Any user other than domestic users.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION:        A document issued to permit holders when they have
                            violated their permit and/or this Code.
                            The separator that separates the sand, oil and
OIL/WATER SEPARATOR:        other types of grit from the wastewater before it
                            enters the city's sanitary sewer collection system.
RECLAMATION SYSTEM:         A series of tanks or basins and filters that
                            renders water reusable.
TRANSPORTER:                Any hauler that removes the contents and cleans any
                            grease trap/interceptor or oil/water separator.
                            When the floating grease and bottom sludge combine
TWENTY-FIVE PERCENT RULE:   to displace at least one-quarter (0.25) of the
                            tank's total depth. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
 
8-5-2: APPLICABILITY AND PROHIBITIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all nondomestic users of the sewage treatment
plant:
A.   Grease traps, grease interceptors, oil/water separators and/or grit traps
are not required for domestic users.
B.   Facilities generating FOG as a result of food manufacturing, processing,
preparation or service shall install, use and maintain appropriate grease
traps/interceptors. These facilities include, but are not limited to,
restaurants, food manufacturers, food processors, hospitals, hotels, motels,
prisons, nursing homes, churches, day cares and any other facility preparing,
serving or otherwise making any foodstuff available for consumption.
C.   Facilities generating automotive/petroleum oil, grease, sand, grit and
other types of waste as a result of automotive servicing and repair shall
install, use and maintain an oil/water separator and/or grit trap. These
facilities include, but are not limited to, car washes, automotive repair
shops, tractor/trailer repair shops, car dealerships and any other facility
that maintains, repairs or washes any type of motorized vehicles.
D.   No user may intentionally or unintentionally allow the direct or indirect
discharge of any petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, mineral oil,
gasoline, kerosene or any other chemicals into the city's sanitary sewer
collection system. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-3: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all facilities that generate FOG, waste oil, grit
or other products from automotive repair and washing, who are connected to the
city's sanitary collection system. This will also include transporters of the
wastes which shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations. (Ord.
502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-4: INTERCEPTOR DESIGN:
A.   All new facilities listed in Grease Interceptors and Automatic Grease
Removal Devices in the adopted International Plumbing Code with food
preparation areas shall install a one thousand (1,000)-gallon or larger in-
ground grease interceptor. Any facility not listed in Grease Interceptors and
Automatic Grease Removal Devices with a food preparation area will be sized on
a case-by-case basis by the city engineer, the city manager or the city
manager's designee.
B.   If an existing facility has a smaller grease trap/interceptor in use and
it is not working properly, it shall be replaced with a larger grease trap/
interceptor. Any existing facility that has insufficient space to install a one
thousand (1,000)-gallon in-ground grease interceptor will be sized on a case-
by-case basis by the city engineer, the city manager or the city manager's
designee. All grease traps installed will conform to the adopted International
Plumbing Code.
C.   Any existing facility that causes more than one bypass or has been
determined to be the cause of more than three work orders due to grease
blockages in any twelve (12)-month period shall install a larger grease trap/
interceptor.
D.   All grease interceptors, traps, oil/water separators and/or grit traps
shall be located as to be easily and safely accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-5: GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
All food service facilities, automotive repair shops and car washes shall have
grease traps or grease interceptors properly installed in accordance with any
and all applicable requirements of this Code.
A.   New facilities/new installation.
   1.   Food service: New food service facilities shall install a grease
interceptor of one thousand (1,000) gallons or larger in accordance with the
EPA grease interceptor sizing worksheet.
   2.   Automotive repair and car washes: All facilities where automotive
repairs are made, all car washes and any other facility with the potential to
discharge grease, oil, grit, hazardous or flammable pollutants into the city
sanitary sewer collection system shall install grit traps of five hundred (500)
gallons or more and oil/water separators of one thousand (1,000) gallons or
larger in accordance with this Code.
B.   Existing facilities.
   1.   Food service: Food service facilities are allowed to operate and
maintain existing grease interceptors or grease traps, provided their grease
interceptor or grease trap are of the appropriate size and are in efficient
operating condition.
   2.   Automotive repair and car washes: Automotive repair shops, car washes
and any other facility with the potential to discharge grease, oil, grit or
flammable pollutants into the city's sanitary sewer collection system are
allowed to operate and maintain existing oil/water separators and grit traps,
provided they are of the appropriate size and are in efficient operating
condition.
C.   Grease trap, grease interceptor, oil/water separator or grit trap. The
city may require an existing food service facility, automotive repair shop or
car wash to install a new grease trap, grease interceptor, oil/water separator
or grit trap that complies with the requirements of this Code or to modify and/
or repair any noncompliant plumbing or existing grease trap, grease
interceptor, oil/water separator or grit trap when any one or more of the
following conditions exist:
   1.   The facility is found to be contributing FOG, grit, hazardous or
flammable pollutants, paper towels or wet wipes in sufficient quantities to
cause line stoppages, bypasses, explosion hazard or hazard to the health of
people and/or the environment or necessitate increased maintenance of the
city's sanitary sewer collection system.
   2.   The facility does not have a grease trap, grease interceptor, oil/water
separator and/or grit trap.
   3.   The facility has an irreparable or defective grease trap, grease
interceptor, oil/water separator or grit trap.
   4.   Remodeling of the food preparation area or kitchen, automotive repair
shop or car wash wastewater plumbing system is performed which requires a
plumbing permit issued by the city.
   5.   The facility is sold or undergoes a change of ownership.
   6.   The facility does not have plumbing to the grease trap, grease
interceptor, oil/water separator and/or grit trap in compliance with the
requirements of this Code.
   7.   The facility is found to be contributing wet wipes or paper towels in
sufficient quantities to cause line stoppages or bypasses can be required to
install and maintain a grinding device on their service line prior to
discharging to the city's sanitary sewer collection system.
D.   Maintenance. Grease traps, interceptors, oil/water separators and grit
traps shall be properly maintained, operated and cleaned. This includes the
complete removal or pumping of all liquids, sludge, solids and wastewater on
the surface, sides and the bottom of the grease interceptor/trap, oil/water
separators and grit traps. Generators shall not decant or pump the waste grease
or liquid fraction back into the grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator
and/or grit trap for purposes of reducing the volume of waste to be disposed
of.
   1.   Maintenance, operation and cleaning can only be performed by
transporters that have a permit from the city to perform such maintenance,
operation and cleaning. Grease interceptors/traps shall be pumped out according
to a schedule determined by the city.
   2.   Facilities' sanitary sewer service lines shall not be connected to the
lines intended for grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator and/or grit
trap service.
   3.   Enzymes, bacteria or surfactants shall not be used in grease
interceptors or traps.
E.   Manifest log. All facilities with a grease interceptor/trap, oil/water
separator and/or grit trap shall keep a record of all manifests and maintain a
current manifest log for a period of three years. This log will include the
transporter used, city permit number, vehicle tag number, date and time pumped,
and shall be signed by the transporter and an authorized representative of the
facility. This log shall be kept in a conspicuous location and shall be
immediately available to a representative of the city who is performing such an
inspection.
F.   Closing of business. All facilities with grease interceptors/traps, oil/
water separators and/or grit traps that close their business shall have the
grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator and/or grit trap pumped out and
cleaned. Car washes, automotive shops and other businesses with oil/water
separators and/or grit traps shall also place caps on the discharge line
leading to the city's sanitary sewer collection system. Before the proprietor
vacates the building, it shall be inspected and approved by the city.
G.   Self-cleaners. In order to qualify as a self-cleaner, the trap that is
being cleaned can only be fifty (50) gallons or less. Self-cleaners shall
adhere to all the requirements, procedures and detailed recordkeeping as
outlined in this Code. To ensure compliance with this Code, a maintenance log
shall be kept by the self-cleaning operators. The maintenance log shall
contain, at a minimum, the following information:
   1.   Date the grease trap was serviced;
   2.   Name of the person who serviced the grease trap;
   3.   Waste grease disposal method used; and
   4.   Signature of the operator after each cleaning certifying that, at the
time of the cleaning, all wastewater, solids and grease were removed from the
grease trap, all internal parts were in good operational condition and the
waste was disposed of properly.
   Grease trap self-cleaners who violate this Code will be subject to
enforcement action, including, but not limited to, citations, fines and/or
removal from the self-cleaning program. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-6: TRANSPORTERS REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permits.
   1.   General. All transporters shall obtain a permit and pay the applicable
fee. The discovery of any false or misleading information provided by the
applicant on an application will result in the denial of a permit being issued
or in revocation of the permit if it has been issued.
   2.   Duration of permit. When an application has been reviewed and approved
by the city manager or designee according to all rules in this Code and all
appropriate fees are paid, permits will be issued for a period of not more than
five (5) years from the date of issuance. The permit holder may apply for a
renewal of a permit a minimum of one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the
permit's expiration date. A permit may be terminated at any time when the city
manager or designee finds that the permit holder has violated the permit
conditions.
   3.   Permit transfer. All permits are approved and issued to individuals. No
permit may be reassigned, transferred or sold to a new owner.
   4.   Modifications. The city manager or designee may modify or change the
conditions on any permits issued, including, but not limited to, the following:
      a.   To revise standards to keep in compliance with changing local, state
and Federal regulations, requirements and standards that may apply;
      b.   Due to a violation of any term of the permit;
      c.   A change in the permit holder's process;
      d.   To reflect a change in facility ownership or facility location; or
      e.   A request from the permit holder to have permit modified, re-issued
or terminated if received in writing by the city manager or designee explaining
in detail the permit holder's reasons for a modification.
   5.   Vehicle inspection. Transporters shall permit the city to inspect their
registered vehicles annually.
   6.   Duty to comply. The permittee shall comply with all conditions of
permit. Failure to comply with the requirements of the permit shall be grounds
for enforcement remedies as described in this Code.
   7.   Duty to mitigate. The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to
minimize or correct any adverse impact to the sewage treatment plant or the
environment resulting from noncompliance with the permit issued including such
accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and
impact of the noncompliance.
   8.   Permit termination. An issued permit may be terminated for, but not
limited to the following reasons:
      a.   Failure to abide by permit requirements;
      b.   Failure to pay fines;
      c.   Failure to pay fees; or
      d.   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   9.   Compliance with applicable laws, standards and requirements. Compliance
with the conditions of an issued permit does not relieve the permittee from
obligations regarding compliance with any and all applicable local, state and
Federal laws, standards and requirements, including any such standards or
requirements that may become effective during the term of the permit.
   10.   Compliance date. Every transporter of grease interceptor/trap, oil/
water separator and/or grit trap waste shall be in compliance with all the
standards and requirements of this Code prior to its issuance.
B.   Pumping and cleaning of grease interceptors/traps, oil/water separators
and/or grit traps. It shall be the responsibility of the transporters to
properly clean the grease interceptors/traps, oil/water separators and grit
traps as required by this Code. Cleaning of the grease interceptor/trap, oil/
water separators and grit traps requires the complete removal of the contents
of the grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator and grit trap. The walls
shall be cleaned, and all solids shall be removed from the bottom of the
interceptor/trap, oil/water separator or grit trap. Decanting of the
supernatant back into the interceptor/trap, oil/water separator or grit trap is
not allowed. Discharging of the grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator or
grit trap waste back into any part of the city's sanitary sewer collection
system or stormwater collection system is prohibited. The transporter shall
dispose of the grease interceptor/trap, oil/water separator or grit trap waste
in accordance with all local, state and federal regulations.
C.   Manifest. Manifests shall be used to track grease interceptor/trap, oil/
water separator and/or grit trap waste from the initial generation of the waste
to the final disposal. It is the responsibility of the transporter to prepare
the manifest.
   Manifests will be issued to each transporter who has been issued a permit by
the city. The transporter will ensure that the form is completed entirely. The
transporter will keep a copy for files, leave the appropriate copy of the
manifest with the generator and mail a completed copy to the city. All
generators and transporters will keep their copies of manifests on file for a
time period of at least three years. The manifests will be kept in a
conspicuous location and will be immediately available to a representative of
the city who is performing inspections. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-7: CLEANING SCHEDULE:
A.   Grease traps, grease interceptors, oil/water separators and grit traps
shall be cleaned as often as necessary to ensure that sedimentation and
floating debris does not accumulate to impair the efficiency of the grease
trap, grease interceptor, oil/water separator and grit trap, and to ensure that
the discharge is in compliance with local discharge limits and no visible
grease is observable in the discharge.
B.   All grease interceptors/traps shall be serviced and completely pumped of
accumulated waste content when the twenty-five percent (25%) rule is reached,
or every three months for grease interceptors and monthly for fifty pound (50
lb.) to one hundred pound (100 lb.) capacity grease traps, whichever first
occurs. At any point in time if solidification occurs in the grease interceptor
or trap, service needs to be conducted immediately. All devices shall be
inspected for damages by the transporter every time they are serviced.
C.   Grease interceptors and traps shall be kept free of inorganic solid
materials such as grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes,
shells, towels, rags, etc., which could settle in the sludge pocket thereby
reducing the effective volume of the device.
D.   Oil/water separators and grit traps shall be serviced and completely
pumped of accumulated waste content when the twenty-five percent (25%) rule is
reached or every six (6) months, whichever first occurs. If a car wash has a
water reclamation system in use, the first two (2) to three (3) compartments
shall be completely pumped of accumulated waste when the twenty-five percent
(25%) rule is reached or every six (6) months, whichever first occurs. All of
the chambers shall be completely emptied and cleaned at least once a year.
E.   The city manager or designee has the authority to adjust cleaning
schedules as necessary. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-8: FEE:
Fees are established in the adopted fee schedule approved by city commission.
The purposes of the fees are to recover any costs incurred by the city from the
generators and transporters. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
8-5-9: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Recovery of costs incurred. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter or causing damage to, or otherwise inhibiting, the city's sanitary
sewer collection system and/or sewage treatment plant shall be liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The
cost incurred by the city for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused
by the violation will be added to the person's monthly water bill for payment.
Failure or refusal to pay the assessed costs may result in a citation being
issued.
B.   Any facility with or without a grease trap/interceptor causing a bypass
due to the facility's discharge of FOG will be liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage incurred. Any facility without a grease trap/
interceptor, oil/water separator and/or grit trap will then automatically be
required to install, operate and maintain a grease interceptor/trap, oil/water
separator and/or grit trap.
C.   Any facility whose discharge causes a city main to become restricted and
require flushing due to FOG, wet wipes and/or paper towels will be liable to
the city for any expense, loss or damage incurred.
D.   Violations and fines. It is unlawful and an offense to violate or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Upon conviction, the
penalty shall be a fine of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), but
in no case less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 502, 4-9-2024)
TITLE 9
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Revisions To Building Code
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, not less than one copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
international building code, 2015 edition, including appendix chapters as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
building code of the city of Perkins, in the state of Oklahoma, for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said building code on file in
the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 454, 3-14-2017)
9-1-2: REVISIONS TO BUILDING CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 1612.3. Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 1612.3. Insert: March 14, 2017.
Section 3412.2. Delete the first sentence in section 3412.2 of the IBC and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
3412.2 Applicability. Structures existing prior to effective date of this
ordinance and in which there is work involving additions, alterations or
changes of occupancy shall be made to conform to the requirements of this
section or the provisions of sections 3403 through 3409.
(Ord. 454, 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 2
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Existing Building Code Adopted
9-2-2: Revisions To Existing Building Code
9-2-1: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, not less than one copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
international existing building code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the existing building
code of the city of Perkins, in the state of Oklahoma, for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said existing building code on
file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 456, 3-14-2017)
9-2-2: REVISIONS TO EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 1401.2. Insert: March 14, 2017.
(Ord. 456, 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Fire Code Adopted
9-3-2: Revisions To Fire Code
9-3-3: Geographic Limits
9-3-4: Penalty
9-3-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the city clerk, being marked and designated as the international fire code,
2009 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the fire code of the city, for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said fire code on file in the office of the
city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in section
9-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 371, 4-13-2010)
9-3-2: REVISIONS TO FIRE CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Perkins.
(Ord. 371, 4-13-2010)
Section 102.12. Appendix C, fire hydrant location and distribution; and
appendix D, fire apparatus access roads are hereby added.
(Ord. 403, 6-11-2013)
Section 108. Board Of Appeals. Is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Section 109.3. Insert: Is hereby amended to conform with section
9-3-4 of the city code.
Section 111.4. Insert: Is hereby amended to conform with section
9-3-4 of the city code.
Section 405. Insert:
Emergency Evacuation Drills. Fire drills shall be held at least once every 6
months in educational and institutional type occupancies where such occupancies
constitute a major occupancy of building. During severe weather fire drills may
be postponed. A record of all fire drills shall be kept and persons in charge
of such occupancies shall file written reports at least once a month with the
bureau of fire prevention, giving the time and date of each drill held.
Section 1011.3. Insert:
Obstructions. No person shall place, store or keep, or permit to be placed,
stored or kept on or under or at the bottom of any exit stairway, inside or
outside, exit hallway, elevator or other means of egress, any materials that
the presence or the burning or which would obstruct or render hazardous, egress
or persons from the building.
Section 3301.1.3. Fireworks. Is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Any and all references to oil and gas production are hereby deleted in their
entirety.
(Ord. 371, 4-13-2010)
9-3-3: GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS:
The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2009 international
fire code are hereby established as follows:
Section 3404.2.9.6.1: City limits.
Section 3406.2.4.4: City limits.
Section 3506.2: City limits.
Section 3804.2: City limits.
(Ord. 403, 6-11-2013)
9-3-4: PENALTY:
A.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
the international fire code hereby adopted, or who shall fail to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city
manager or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed therein,
shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 7-
10; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (2010 Code § 7-10)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Residential Code Adopted
9-4-2: Revisions To Residential Code
9-4-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, not less than one copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
international residential code, 2015 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the residential code of the city of
Perkins, in the state of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three
(3) stories in height with separate means of egress as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
residential code on file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 457, 3-14-2017)
9-4-2: REVISIONS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section R101.1 Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Table R301.2(1) Insert: Appropriate Design Criteria.
Section P2603.6.1 Insert:
Sewer Depth. Building sewers shall be a minimum of 12 inches below grade.
(Ord. 457, 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of The Electrical Code
9-5-2: Revisions To The Electrical Code
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF THE ELECTRICAL CODE:
That a certain document, no less than one copy of which is on file in the
office of the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as
the national electrical code, 2017, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, Inc., for the establishment of minimum accepted
standards for the design and installation of electrical conductors and
equipment within or on public and private buildings or other structures, the
installation of conductors that connect to the supply of electricity and the
installation of other outside conductors on the premises. (Ord. 459, 3-14-2017)
9-5-2: REVISIONS TO THE ELECTRICAL CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 404.2. is hereby amended as follows:
Schedule Of Permit Fees. A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in
accordance with schedule of fees as adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 396, 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-6-2: Revisions To Plumbing Code
9-6-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, not less than one copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
international plumbing code, 2015 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city of
Perkins, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing
systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said plumbing code on file in the office of
the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 460, 3-14-2017)
9-6-2: REVISIONS TO PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 106.6.2. Insert: As set by resolution.
Section 106.6.3. Insert: 50%.
Section 108.4. Insert: is hereby amended to conform with section
 1-4-1 of the Perkins city code.
Section 108.5. Insert: is hereby amended to conform with section
1-4-1 of the Perkins city code.
Section 305.6.1. Insert: 18 inches; 12 inches.
Section 904.1. Insert: 12 inches.
(Ord. 460, 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 7
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION
SECTION:
9-7-1: Production Prohibitions
9-7-2: Penalty
9-7-3: Relief In Courts
9-7-1: PRODUCTION PROHIBITIONS:
A.   Permit Required; Exceptions: No person shall drill, mine or produce, or
cause to be drilled, mined or produced, any gas, oil or other materials in the
city limits without first obtaining a permit from the city manager. However,
oil and gas exploration permits shall not be granted on any parcel of land:
   1.   Containing ten (10) acres or less, except upon written consent of the
surface owner;
   2.   Contained or described by any approved final plat;
   3.   Unless the applicant is in compliance with environmental criteria and
standards as outlined in a department of housing and urban development
guidebook entitled "Siting Of HUD- Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Facilities"
(HUD-1060-CPD, second version, September 1996), which is incorporated herein;
   4.   Zoned planned unit development district (PUD) by the city commission.
B.   Engine Usage Near Structures: No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel or
other internal combustion engine of any kind shall be operated in conjunction
with the drilling and/or operation of an oil or gas well within six hundred
feet (600') of any dwelling or business structure, unless waived by the
landowner.
C.   Operations Near Churches, Schools Or Freshwater Wells: No oil, gas or
disposal well shall be drilled, operated or maintained, nor shall any operation
in connection therewith be carried on or conducted within six hundred feet
(600') of any church or school, unless waived by the landowner, or within three
hundred feet (300') of any producing freshwater well.
D.   Requirements May Be Imposed: In granting a permit, the city manager may
impose requirements, including, but not limited to, the following items as may
be reasonably necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of persons
and property:
   1.   Protective berms, including landscaping thereof;
   2.   Electric motors for pumping a completed well;
   3.   Prohibition of earthen circulation pits; and
   4.   Designating routes and prohibiting traffic access to the well site
through residential areas. (2010 Code § 4-21.1)
9-7-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violate any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2010 Code § 4-22; amd. 2012 Code)
9-7-3: RELIEF IN COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, and injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation. (2010 Code § 4-23)
CHAPTER 8
LIFE SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Adoption
9-8-2: Conflicts With City Ordinances
9-8-3: Designated Official
9-8-4: Permits
9-8-5: Enforcement And Penalty
9-8-1: ADOPTION:
The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 life safety code, 2009
edition, is hereby adopted by reference as though copied herein fully. (Ord.
411, 10-8-2013)
9-8-2: CONFLICTS WITH CITY ORDINANCES:
If any matters in said code are contrary to existing ordinances of the city of
Perkins, the code shall prevail. (Ord. 411, 10-8-2013)
9-8-3: DESIGNATED OFFICIAL:
Within said code, when reference is made to the duties of a certain official
named therein, the designated official of the city of Perkins who has duties
corresponding to those of the named official in said code shall be deemed to be
the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of said code are
concerned. (Ord. 411, 10-8-2013)
9-8-4: PERMITS:
A fee schedule for permits and inspections has been adopted that applies in the
incorporated portions of the city limits. (Ord. 411, 10-8-2013)
9-8-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
A.   The city official appointed to enforce the provisions of said code shall
have the authority to issue citations for any violations of this chapter.
B.   Any person in violation of any provision of the said code incorporated by
reference in this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
C.   In addition to a fine, any person in violation of any provision of the
above listed code, incorporated by reference in this section, shall have their
occupancy permit revoked or the approval of an occupancy permit denied. (Ord.
411, 10-8-2013)
CHAPTER 9
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-9-1: Adoption Of The Mechanical Code
9-9-2: Revisions To The Mechanical Code
9-9-1: ADOPTION OF THE MECHANICAL CODE:
A.   There is hereby adopted by reference that certain code referred to as the
international mechanical code, 2015 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, Inc., for the establishment of minimum accepted standards for the
design, installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of mechanical
systems including heating systems, ventilating systems, steam and hot water
heating systems, water heating systems, boilers and pressure vessels,
appliances utilizing gas, liquid or solid fuels, chimneys and vents. Each and
all of the standards, regulations and requirements, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, as set out and
specified in the international mechanical code, 2015 edition, are hereby
adopted, referred to, incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out
at length herein.
B.   Not less than one copy of the international mechanical code, 2015 edition,
shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and open for public inspection
during office hours. (Ord. 458, 3-14-2017)
9-9-2: REVISIONS TO THE MECHANICAL CODE:
The international mechanical code, 2015 edition, is hereby amended in the
following aspects:
A.   Amendments:
101.1, Jurisdiction, is hereby amended by inserting the words "the city of
Perkins, Oklahoma" for and in exchange of the words "name of jurisdiction".
B.   Schedule Of Permit Fees: A fee for each permit shall be paid as required,
in accordance with schedule of fees as adopted by resolution. (Ord. 458, 3-14-
2017)
CHAPTER 10
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-10-2: Revisions To Fuel Gas Code
9-10-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, not less than one copy of which is on file in the office of
the city clerk of Perkins, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
international fuel gas code, 2015 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fuel gas code of the city of
Perkins, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing fuel gas systems
and gas fired appliances as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said fuel gas code on file in
the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-10-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 455, 3-14-2017)
9-10-2: REVISIONS TO FUEL GAS CODE:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Perkins, Oklahoma.
Section 106.6.2. Insert: A fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in
accordance with schedule of fees as adopted by resolution.
Section 106.6.3. Insert: 50%: 50%.
Section 108.4. Insert: is hereby amended to conform with section
1-4-1 of the Perkins city code.
Section 108.5. Insert: is hereby amended to conform with section
1-4-1 of the Perkins city code.
(Ord. 455, 3-14-2017)
TITLE 10
PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purpose
10-1-2: Interpretation And Application
10-1-3: Jurisdiction; Territory Annexed
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-1: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purpose of encouraging the most appropriate use
of land throughout the community and promoting the development of the community
in accordance with a comprehensive plan. (2010 Code § 22-13)
10-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
The provisions of this title shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where
this title imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other
provisions of law or by other rules or regulations or ordinance, the provisions
of this title shall control. Terms and words are to be used and interpreted as
defined in section
10-1-4 of this chapter. The word "shall" is mandatory and not directive, except
where the natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise. (2010 Code §
22-14)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION; TERRITORY ANNEXED:
This title shall be in full force and effect in the corporate limits of the
city. Territory annexed to the corporate limits of the city, subsequent to the
effective date hereof, shall immediately be subject to the provisions of this
title and shall be designated as in the agricultural district A, unless
otherwise classified by the city commission at the time of annexation or
addition. In case any portion of this title shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remainder of the title shall not thereby be invalid, but
shall remain in full force and effect. Any ordinance now in effect that
conflicts with any provision of this title is hereby repealed. (2010 Code § 22-
15)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively provided herein:
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure customarily incidental,
appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of a building, or to the
principal use of land, and which is located upon the same lot therewith.
   AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairy production, pasturage, horticulture, animal and poultry husbandry, and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce;
provided, that the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of swine
or other animals, stockyards or commercial feedlots for cattle.
   ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use affording a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sales or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers; collision services, including body, frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION: Any area used for retail sale
of gasoline or oil fuels or automobile accessories and incidental services,
including facilities for lubricating, and washing and cleaning, but not
including the sale of butane or propane fuels.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH OR AUTOMATIC CAR WASH: A building or structure or chain
conveyor, blowers, steam cleaners and other mechanical devices used primarily
for the purpose of washing motor vehicles.
   BLOCK: In describing the boundaries of a district, refers to the legal
description. In all other cases, the word "block" refers to the property
abutting on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets, or
between an intersecting street and a railroad right of way, or between an
intersecting street and a watercourse.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment of the city, also referred to
as the "board".
   BOARDING HOUSE AND ROOMING HOUSE: Where meals or lodging are provided for
persons other than the family or their relatives, and excluding facilities for
transient persons, such as hotels, motels, inns and other such facilities.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls that is
used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance of the highest points of the
building.
   BUILDING LINE: A line established beyond which no part of a building shall
project, except as otherwise provided by this title.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or buildings in which the principal use of
the building site is conducted. In any residential district, any dwelling shall
be deemed to be the principal building on the building site.
   BULLETIN BOARD: Any sign announcing the activities of an educational,
religious, institutional or similar use.
   CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
   CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution, other than schools or
churches, which receives three (3) or more children under the age of sixteen
(16) years for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or
custodians, and received for regular periods of time for compensation.
   CITY COMMISSION: The official governing body of the city.
   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The Perkins city planning commission, as
established by the statutes.
   CLINIC: A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons, and those in need of surgical or medical attention
but who are not customarily provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
commercial enterprise.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official city plan of the city; also refers to the
specific document "Comprehensive Plan Of Perkins, Oklahoma".
   CONDOMINIUM: A form of real estate ownership whereby a building or group of
buildings in a residential development contain dwelling units that are owned
individually, while the exterior structure, common areas and facilities, and
underlying land are owned and maintained collectively by all the owners on a
proportional, undivided basis.
   CONVALESCENT HOME: A nursing home, a rest home, a home for the aged,
recuperating, chronically ill or incurable persons, in which two (2) or more
persons not of the immediate family are received, kept or provided with food
and shelter or care for compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics or
similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
disease or injury.
   COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence of
one or more persons, but not including a tent, cabin, boardinghouse or rooming
house, hotel or motel.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3)
or more dwelling units and designed for or used by three (3) or more families.
Also includes the word "apartments".
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit and
designed for or used exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units and
designed for or used exclusively by two (2) families. Also includes the word
"duplex".
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms arranged, intended or designed as a
habitable unit, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping facilities for not more
than one family living independently of any other family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories
thereof reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls,
or from the centerlines of walls separating two (2) buildings.
   FRONTAGE: The linear measurement of a lot boundary which is abutting a
street.
   GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling for one family erected as a part of a private
garage.
   GARAGE PARKING: Any building or portion thereof used for the storage of four
(4) or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used for or extended for use by the occupants of the premises for
storage of passenger vehicles or trailers.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC OR FOR REPAIR: The structure or portion thereof, other than a
private garage, used for the storage, sale, hire, care, repairing or
refinishing of any vehicles.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   HOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing six (6) or more sleeping
rooms occupied or intended or designated to be occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged, with or without meals for
compensation.
   INDUSTRY: The storage, repair, manufacture, preparation or treatment of any
article, substance or any commodity for commercial use.
   INSTITUTIONAL USES: Those uses organized, established, used or intended to
be used for the promotion of a public, religious, educational, charitable,
cultural, social or philanthropic activity and normally operated on a nonprofit
basis.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvage materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including
all wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, but not including such places where conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and establishments
selling household equipment, used cars in operable condition, or salvage
material incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL: Any structure or premises on which three (3) or more dogs are kept.
   LOADING SPACE: A space on the same lot as the principal use of at least ten
feet (10') in width and thirty feet (30') in length, and having a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14'), designated for the temporary parking
of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting on a
street.
   LOT, DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot, other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. Where
the lot abuts more than one street, the owner may select the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant and most nearly
parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot exclusive of the use by occupants
which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
   LOT OR PARCEL: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a principal building, or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings,
or utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open spaces as required by this title, and having access on a public street.
   LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot situated so that the front is either wider or
narrower than the rear of the lot.
   LOTS OF RECORD: A separate and distinct parcel designated on a legally
recorded subdivision plat, or a legally recorded deed filed in the records of
Payne County, state of Oklahoma.
   MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Dental or medical clinic or doctor or dentist offices: A building used
for the examination and treatment of the physically ill;
   B.   Hospital: An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human inpatient or surgical care for the sick or injured, and
including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments,
training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facilities;
   C.   Nursing homes, rest homes or convalescent homes; and
   D.   Public health center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit
for providing public health services, including related facilities.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit designated for
transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways, on its own wheels or
on flatbeds or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, and connection to utilities; also a
portable or mobile vehicle used or designated to be used as living purposes,
and with or without wheels, rollers or skids in place.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of a mobile home park allocated to the exclusive
use of the occupants of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for
placement of mobile homes to be occupied as residences.
   MOTEL: An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to be
used as temporary sleeping facilities.
   OPEN SPACE: An area included in any side, rear or front yard, or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices and eaves of porches.
   SIGN: Any word, lettering, part of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a
firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a service, a
commodity or product, which is visible from any public street or right of way
and designed to attract attention. "For sale" and "for rent" shall be deemed
signs within the meaning of this definition, but the term "sign" shall not
include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other
political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event used for a public purpose
in the public interest.
   SIGN, DISPLAY SURFACE AREA: The net area of the surface of the sign;
provided, that only one face of a double faced sign shall be included in the
computation of display surface area.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
   SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: Signs of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent or lease.
   SMALL BOX DISCOUNT STORE:
   A.   A store of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or less which sells at
retail an assortment of physical goods, products, or merchandise directly to
the consumer, including food or beverages for off-premises consumption,
household products, personal grooming and health products, and other consumer
goods.
   B.   Small box discount stores do not include retail stores that:
      1.   Dedicate at least fifteen percent (15%) of shelf space to fresh or
fresh frozen food;
      2.   Dedicate less than two percent (2%) of shelf space to food of any
kind;
      3.   Contains a prescription pharmacy; or
      4.   Offer for sale gasoline or diesel fuel.
   C.   Fresh or fresh frozen food means food for human consumption that is
unprocessed, or otherwise in its raw state; food that was quickly frozen while
still fresh. This includes unprocessed meat and seafood.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of floor next above it; or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET: A public right of way which provides the primary public means of
access to abutting property and used primarily for vehicular circulation.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building,
such as walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground (not including sidewalks, driveways and similar improvement
areas).
   TOWNHOUSE: A one-family dwelling unit in a row of at least two (2) such
units whereby each unit is located on a separate lot platted for individual
ownership, each unit has its own access to the outside, no unit is located over
another unit, each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more common
fire resistant walls along their mutual property boundary, and where certain
common areas and facilities not on the private lots may be owned and maintained
collectively by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   TRAILER: A portable or mobile unit, other than a mobile home, used or
designed to carry or transport material or animals.
   YARD: A required space on a lot unobstructed, except as expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line abutting on a street into which a building may not
protrude.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured from side lot
line to side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from front yard to the rear yard abutting the
side lot line, into which no building may protrude.
   ZERO LOT LINE: The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
of the building's exterior side walls rests directly on a lot line. (2010 Code
§ 22-16; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 492, 2-14-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Enforcement Official Designated
10-2-2: Zoning Clearance Permit
10-2-3: Building Permit
10-2-4: Penalty
10-2-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL DESIGNATED:
A.   The duties of the zoning administrator are delegated to the city clerk.
B.   It shall be the duty of the city clerk to enforce this title. If the city
clerk shall find that any of the provisions of this title are being violated,
the city clerk shall notify, in writing, the persons responsible for such
violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and shall take such other action as is authorized by
law to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions. (2010
Code § 22-117; amd. 2012 Code)
10-2-2: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT:
A.   Purpose: The zoning clearance permit is a permit issued by the city clerk
that states that a particular development meets all of the requirements of this
title. It is not a building permit and does not authorize construction. It
certifies that the land or structure is in conformance with the terms of this
title. (2010 Code § 22-118)
B.   Permit Required:
   1.   New Construction: No building or other structure shall be erected,
moved, constructed, enlarged or altered in such manner as to prolong the life
of the building, nor shall the use of any land or building, nor shall the use
of any land or building or other structure be changed without a zoning
clearance permit being issued authorizing such construction, alteration,
erecting, moving or enlargement, or use changes, as being in compliance with
the provisions of this title. No building permit shall be issued for any new
construction not conforming to a valid zoning clearance permit. (2010 Code §
22-119)
   2.   Change In Use Of Land Or Building: No change shall be made in the use
of any land or building or structure after the passage date hereof until a
zoning clearance permit has been obtained, certifying that all the provisions
of this title have been complied with. (2010 Code § 22-120)
C.   Application For Permit: An application for a zoning clearance permit shall
be made to the city clerk by the owner or proposed occupant of the building or
land to be occupied or used, and the application shall state the location and
legal description of the property and set out in detail the character and
nature of the use to be conducted thereon. Within three (3) days, the city
clerk shall grant or deny the zoning clearance permit in accordance with the
term of this section. (2010 Code § 22-121)
D.   Accompanying Material: All applications for zoning clearance permits shall
be accompanied by a drawing drawn to reasonably describe the addition or
improvement on suitable paper, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size and location of the building to be erected, and such other
information as may be necessary to satisfy the requirements of these
regulations. If there is to be an alteration in topography, a plat plan is
required to be furnished. (2010 Code § 22-122)
E.   Fee: Zoning clearance permits shall be issued without charge. (2010 Code §
22-123)
10-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
A.   Issuance: The building permit is issued by the building inspector,
appointed by the city manager. (2010 Code § 22-124)
B.   Information Required: Whenever any structure or building is to be built,
erected, enlarged or have such building or structure's roofline extended, a
building permit shall be obtained from the city. The applicant shall furnish
the following information: (2010 Code § 22-124; amd. 2012 Code)
   1.   A drawing drawn to reasonably describe the addition or improvement
showing the exact size, shape and dimensions of the lot to be built on, the
exact size and location on the lot of all existing buildings and structures,
and the exact size and location on the lot of the structure or building
proposed to be altered, erected or moved, and the ways of ingress and egress.
If there is to be an alteration in topography, a plat plan is required to be
furnished;
   2.   A copy of the zoning clearance permit issued by the city clerk if the
building inspector so requires; and
   3.   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed to
determine compliance with this section, including a survey, prepared by an
engineer registered in the state, of the boundaries of the lot on which the
improvement is proposed to be located may be required by the building inspector
where the boundaries of the lot are not clearly defined by survey pins and
monuments. (2010 Code § 22-124)
10-2-4: PENALTY:
A violation of any section or provision of this title shall be deemed a
violation of this code, and shall be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or
corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this title shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (2010 Code § 22-125)
CHAPTER 3
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Planning Commission Recommendation Required
10-3-2: Application For Amendment
10-3-3: Notice And Public Hearing
10-3-4: Planning Commission Action
10-3-5: City Commission Action
10-3-6: Protest To Amendment
10-3-1: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED:
The regulations, restrictions, prohibitions and limitations imposed and the
districts created may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed,
modified or repealed by ordinance, but no change shall be made until the
planning commission, after notice and public hearing, files with the city
commission a report and recommendation on the proposed change. (2010 Code § 22-
126)
10-3-2: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT:
An owner or his duly authorized agent or representative may make application
for the amendment of the zoning restrictions applicable to his property by
filing with the planning commission a written application in such form and
content as the planning commission may by resolution establish. (2010 Code §
22-127; amd. Ord. 498, 4-9-2024)
10-3-3: NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING:
A.   Required; Notice: Parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard at a public hearing before the planning commission on
any application, and before any district regulation, restriction or boundary
shall become effective. Upon receipt of an application, the planning commission
shall set a date for public hearing not less than twenty (20) days nor more
than sixty (60) days from the date of filing. At least fifteen (15) days'
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. The notice shall include a map of
the area to be affected that indicates street names or numbers, streams, or
other significant landmarks in the area. (2010 Code § 22-128)
B.   Additional Notice Requirements:
   1.   Except as authorized in subsection C of this section, in addition to
the notice requirements provided for in subsection A of this section, a notice
of a public hearing on any proposed zoning change, except by a municipality
acting pursuant to subsection C of this section, shall be given twenty (20)
days prior to the hearing by mailing written notices by the secretary of the
planning commission, to all the owners of real property within a three hundred
foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the territory contained in the
application. The application submitted by the applicant shall contain a
certified abstractor's, registered professional engineer's or registered land
surveyor's list of the names of all property owners within such area; no
application shall be accepted without such list. The applicant shall also pay
an application fee as established by resolution of the city commission. The
notice shall include a map of the area to be affected which indicates street
names or numbers, streams or significant landmarks in the area, and: (2010 Code
§ 22-128; amd. 2012 Code)
      a.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the municipality;
      b.   Present zoning of the property, and the zoning sought by the
applicant; and
      c.   Date, time and place of the public hearing.
   2.   Additional notice shall also be given by posting the notice of the
hearing on the affected property at least twenty (20) days before the date of
the hearing.
C.   Reclassification By Planning Commission Or City:
   1.   If the planning commission or the city proposes reclassification in
order to revise its comprehensive plan or official map, or to identify areas
which require specific land use development due to topography, geography or
other distinguishing features, including, but not limited to, floodplains,
drainage, historic preservation and blighted areas, the planning commission or
mayor and city commission shall require, in addition to the notice requirements
provided for in subsection A of this section, a sign to be posted on designated
properties within the area affected by the proposed zoning reclassification.
The sign and the lettering thereon shall be of sufficient size so as to be
clearly visible and legible from the public street or streets toward which it
faces.
   2.   The notice shall state:
      a.   The date, time and place of the public hearing;
      b.   Who will conduct the public hearing;
      c.   The desired zoning classification;
      d.   The proposed use of the property; and
      e.   Other information as may be necessary to provide adequate and timely
public notice. (2010 Code § 22-128)
10-3-4: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
A.   Decision: After notice and public hearing, the planning commission shall
vote to:
   1.   Recommend to the city commission that the application be approved as
submitted, or as amended, or be approved subject to modification; or
   2.   Recommend to the city commission that the application be denied.
B.   Time Limit For Submission To City Commission: An application recommended
for approval, or approval subject to modification, shall be transmitted to the
city with the report and recommendation of the planning commission within
fifteen (15) days from the date of planning commission action.
C.   Denial; Request For Hearing: An application recommended for denial shall
not be considered further unless the applicant, within fifteen (15) days from
the date of the planning commission action, files a written request with the
city commission for a hearing. Upon notice of such request, the planning
commission shall forthwith transmit the application and its report and
recommendation to the city commission. There shall be no fee charged the
applicant for the hearing. (2010 Code § 22-129)
10-3-5: CITY COMMISSION ACTION:
The city commission shall hold a hearing on each application regularly
transmitted pursuant to an appeal as provided for in subsection
10-3-4C of this chapter. The city commission shall approve the application as
submitted and recommended by the planning commission, or approve the
application subject to modification, or deny the application, or return the
application to the planning commission for further study. (2010 Code § 22-130)
10-3-6: PROTEST TO AMENDMENT:
Protests against the proposed changes in regulations, restrictions and district
boundaries in the city shall be filed at least three (3) days before the date
of the public hearing before the mayor and city commission. If protests are
filed by:
A.   The owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots
included in a proposed change; or
B.   The owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of lots within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the territory
included in a proposed change;
then the proposed change or amendment shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of the city
commission. (2010 Code § 22-131)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Scope And Application
10-4-2: Established; Membership; Composition
10-4-3: Rules And Procedures; Officers; Voting; Absences
10-4-4: Powers And Duties
10-4-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
A.   In order to direct the future development of the city and to encourage
social and economic improvements in accordance with modern city planning
principles, and to ensure the orderly, efficient and economic arrangement and
development of future public works projects, the city commission may appoint a
city planning commission.
B.   It is deemed in the best interests of the citizens of the city and further
to be in the interests of the peace, health and safety of said citizens, for
the city to utilize the provisions contained in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections
45-101 through 45-105, as amended, and by the authority granted therein, to
hereby create a city planning commission, to be known as the Perkins planning
commission.
C.   All ordinances of the city now in full force and effect that contain the
phrases "planning commission", "zoning and planning commission", "metropolitan
area planning commission" or other words and phrases that mean city-county
zoning and planning commission shall now mean, be and referred to as the
Perkins planning commission. (2010 Code § 22-1)
10-4-2: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; COMPOSITION:
A.   Established; Membership: There is hereby established a planning
commission, which shall consist of five (5) citizens of the city.
B.   Nomination: The mayor shall nominate the members of the planning
commission, subject to confirmation by the city commission.
C.   Terms:
   1.   Members of the planning commission shall hold office for overlapping
terms of three (3) years each, beginning on July 1 annually; providing, that
the first members shall be appointed to serve as follows:
      a.   Two (2) shall be appointed for terms of one year;
      b.   Two (2) shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years; and
      c.   One shall be appointed for term of three (3) years.
   2.   Appointments thereafter shall be made for terms of three (3) years,
except, vacancies on the board occurring otherwise than by expiration of a term
of office shall be filled by nomination by the mayor and confirmation by the
city commission for the unexpired term of the member or members whose vacancy
is being filled.
D.   Compensation; Reimbursement For Expenses: The appointed members of the
planning commission shall serve without compensation or pay, except that any
member of said planning commission who shall incur reasonable expenses at the
direction of the city or in official and sanctioned furtherance of his duties
shall be entitled to reimbursement in full by the said city.
E.   Residency; Qualifications: All members appointed to the planning
commission shall be residents residing within the corporate limits of the city,
and shall further be qualified by knowledge or experience to act upon matters
pertaining to the physical, social and economic development and betterment of
the city.
F.   Removal For Cause: Any appointed member to the planning commission may be
removed by the city commission at any time for due cause shown.
G.   Authority Of City Commission: The city commission shall be the sole judge
of the qualifications of the members of such planning commission, and may,
without notice, and for due cause, remove any and all of the members from such
planning commission.
H.   Vacancy Created: Removal of any such member from the planning commission
shall create a vacancy in the office of the member so being removed. (2010 Code
§ 22-2)
10-4-3: RULES AND PROCEDURES; OFFICERS; VOTING; ABSENCES:
A.   Election Of Officers: Immediately after appointment of the planning
commission annually by the mayor and city commission, such planning commission
shall organize by electing from their members, for a term of one year, a
chairperson and a vice chairperson, and shall further adhere to the rules and
regulations.
B.   Procedures: All rules, regulations and matters of procedure shall be
determined in a manner not inconsistent with the ordinances of the city.
C.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. No action shall be taken and be binding
upon the planning commission unless concurred in by not less than three (3) of
the members comprising the planning commission.
D.   Absences: If any member of the planning commission shall be absent for
more than one-half (1/2) of all the meetings of the planning commission,
regular or special, held within any period of six (6) consecutive calendar
months, said person thereupon shall immediately cease to hold the office of
planning commissioner. (Ord. 446, 12-13-2016)
10-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
A.   The planning commission may consider and investigate any subject matter
tending to the development and betterment of the municipality, and make
recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof, to
the city commissioners, and for any purpose may make, or cause to be made,
surveys, maps and plans. All plans, plats or replats of land, laid out in lots
or plats, and the streets, alleys or other portions of the same, intended to be
dedicated to public or private use, within the corporate limits of the city,
shall first be submitted to the planning commission for its approval or
rejection. Before such plan, plat or replat shall be entitled to be recorded in
the office of the county clerk, they must be approved by the city commission
after a report thereof has been submitted to the city commission by the
planning commission. The disapproval of any plan, plat or replat by the city
commission shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication shown thereon.
B.   The planning commission shall have the power and the duty to prepare and
recommend to the city commission for adoption a comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the city. In conducting its work, the planning
commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the
development and betterment of such municipality and may make recommendations,
as it may deem advisable, concerning the adoption thereof to the city
commission. The planning commission may make surveys, studies, maps and plans
in the conduct of its activities. In the preparation of the comprehensive plan,
the planning commission may from time to time prepare and recommend to the city
commission for adoption a part or parts thereof, which parts shall cover one or
more major geographical divisions of the city or one or more major elements of
the comprehensive plan. The planning commission may from time to time recommend
extending, amending or changing any portion of the comprehensive plan.
C.   In preparation of such comprehensive plan, the planning commission shall
make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and
future growth of the city, and with due regard to its relation to neighboring
territory. The comprehensive plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the city and its environs, which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development, including, among other things, adequate provision for light and
air, the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement, and wise and efficient
expenditure of public funds.
D.   The planning commission may prepare and recommend to the city commission
for adoption rules and regulations governing the subdivision of land within the
corporate limits of the city. All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in
two (2) or more lots, plats or parcels, or streets, or other ways intended to
be dedicated to public use within the corporate limits of the city, shall first
be submitted to the planning commission for its recommendations. The planning
commission shall, with the help of appropriate municipal officials, check the
proposed dedications or subdivisions of land and with other elements of the
comprehensive plan for the city. The disapproval of any such plan, plat or
replat by the city commission shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications
shown thereon. No plat or replat of subdivision of land, or dedication of
street or alley, or other easement, shall be recorded unless it bears the
signature of the mayor and attested by the city clerk, certifying the approval
and acceptance thereof by the city commission.
E.   The planning commission may recommend the division of the city into
districts of such number, size and area as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the zoning purpose. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or
kind of buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district
may differ from those in other districts.
F.   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan
and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
G.   The planning commission shall have the power to prepare and recommend to
the city commission zoning district boundaries and appropriate regulations
relating to height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the location and use
of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence and other
purposes. (2010 Code § 22-3)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Created
10-5-2: Membership
10-5-3: Rules Of Procedure; Meetings
10-5-4: Powers
10-5-5: Appeals
10-5-6: District Court Appeal
10-5-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created within and for the city, and the city commission may
appoint, a board of adjustment, with the powers and duties as hereinafter set
forth. (2010 Code § 22-5)
10-5-2: MEMBERSHIP:
A.   Appointments; Terms: The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5)
members, citizens of the city, each appointed by the mayor, with the approval
of the city commission, for a term of three (3) years; provided, however, that
for the first appointment under the provisions of this chapter, one member
shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) members shall be appointed
for a term of two (2) years, and two (2) members shall be appointed for a term
of three (3) years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three
(3) years.
B.   Prohibited Members: Members of the city commission, the building
inspector, director of planning, city attorney, or other municipal officials,
shall not be appointed to the board of adjustment, except as herein provided.
C.   Removal; Vacancies: Board of adjustment members, once appointed, can
thereafter be removed only for cause, upon written charges, and after a public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filed by the appointing authority for the unexpired
term of any member whose office becomes vacant. (2010 Code § 22-6)
D.   Officers Elected: The board shall elect an acting chairperson from its
membership. The term of office is at the discretion of the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 450, 1-10-2017)
10-5-3: RULES OF PROCEDURE; MEETINGS:
A.   Adoption: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules of procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the state statutes governing
their operation. The board of adjustment may adopt additional rules as are
needed. Rules of procedure adopted by the board of adjustment are a matter of
public record and shall be on file in the office of the clerk of the board of
adjustment.
B.   Meetings: Meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the board of adjustment may
determine. Such chairperson, or in his absence the acting chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
board of adjustment shall be open to the public. The board of adjustment shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the board of adjustment and shall be public
record. (2010 Code § 22-7)
10-5-4: POWERS:
A.   Described: The board of adjustment shall have the following powers:
   1.   Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
inspector in the interpretation or enforcement of this title.
   2.   Special Exceptions: To hear and decide, upon appeal, applications for a
special exception to the terms of this title under the following circumstances
and conditions: (2010 Code § 22-8)
To interpret the provisions of this title where the street layout actually on
the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing the several
districts, which map is on file in the city office and made a part of this
title. (2010 Code § 22-8; amd. 2012 Code)
   3.   Variances:
      a.   A variance from the terms, standards and criteria that pertain to an
allowed use category within a zoning district as authorized by this title may
be granted, in whole or in part, or upon reasonable conditions as provided in
this section, only upon a finding by the board of adjustment that:
         (1)   The application of this title to the particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
         (2)   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
         (3)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of this title or the
comprehensive plan;
         (4)   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the hardship.
      b.   Furthermore, the board of adjustment may establish such requirements
relative to such property as would carry out the purpose and intent of this
title. It is specifically provided; however, that the board of adjustment is
not authorized to grant a use variance.
B.   Decision Of Board: In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board of
adjustment may, in conformance with the provisions of this title, reverse or
affirm, wholly and partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made under this title. The board of adjustment
shall, in making its findings on any specific case, determine the effect of the
proposed change upon the supply of light and air to adjacent property, upon the
congestion in the public streets, upon the public safety from fire and other
hazards, upon the established property values within the surrounding area, and
upon other factors relating to the public health, safety, comfort, morals and
general welfare of the people of the city. It is further provided, that in
exercising its power to grant special exceptions and variances, the board of
adjustment may impose any reasonable condition which shall be necessary to
protect surrounding property values and to promote health, safety, morals and
general welfare.
C.   Vote: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board of adjustment
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which the board of adjustment is required to pass or to effect
any variation in this title.
D.   Ruling; Findings Of Fact: Every ruling made upon any appeal to the board
of adjustment shall be accompanied by a written findings of fact based upon the
testimony received at the hearing afforded by the board of adjustment and shall
specify the reason for granting or denying the appeal. (2010 Code § 22-8)
10-5-5: APPEALS:
A.   Authorized: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of any administrative official.
B.   Time Limit For Filing; Fee: Appeals to the board of adjustment shall be
taken within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision by filing with the
building inspector from whom the appeal is taken and with the city clerk a
notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a filing fee as
established by resolution of the city commission at the office of the city
clerk at the time the notice is filed. (2010 Code § 22-9; amd. 2012 Code)
C.   Copies Of Records Transmitted: The officer for whom the appeal is taken
shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment certified copies of all the
papers constituting the record of said matter, together with a copy of the
ruling or order from which the appeal is taken.
D.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the board of adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been
filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would,
in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which
may be granted by the board of adjustment or by a court of record on
application or notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due
cause shown.
E.   Hearing; Public Notice: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney.
F.   Rehearings: The board of adjustment shall not rehear an appeal once
decided, unless it is shown by the appellant that all pertinent facts of the
case and that for some reason he was prevented from presenting such facts, or
that the facts of the case have materially changed since the public hearing.
(2010 Code § 22-9)
10-5-6: DISTRICT COURT APPEAL:
A.   Authorized; Time Limit For Filing: An appeal from any action, decision,
ruling, judgment or order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person
or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer, or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city to the district court by filing notice
of appeal with the city clerk and with the clerk of the board of adjustment
within ten (10) days from the filing of the decision of the board of
adjustment, which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. Upon filing
of the notice of appeal, as herein provided, the board of adjustment shall
forthwith transmit to the county clerk the original or certified copies of all
the papers constituting the record in the case, together with the order,
decision or ruling of the board of adjustment.
B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the district court from the board of
adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the chairperson of the board of adjustment from which the appeal is
taken certifies to the court clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been
filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted
by the district court upon application or notice to the administrative officer
in charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions of this title, and
upon notice to the chairperson of the board of adjustment from which the appeal
is taken and, upon due cause being shown, the court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for review.
C.   Scope Of Appeal: An appeal shall lie from the action of the district court
as in all other civil actions. (2010 Code § 22-10)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Building Permit
10-6-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-6-4: Excavation Permit
10-6-5: Portable Buildings
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes hereof, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations
shall have the meanings given herein:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: Any building or structure incidental and subordinate to
the main building and located on the same lot or property with the main
building.
   APPROVED: Approved in accordance with regulations promulgated by the city
commission of the city of Perkins.
   BUILDING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof, which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any building, structure, or portion thereof, that is used as a business,
commercial venture, is open or accessible by the public, or which may be wholly
or partly used or intended to be used by the public.
   BUILDING CODE: The building code of this city.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of this city.
   CITY: The city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma, or his
authorized representative.
   DWELLING: Any building or structure designed for occupancy as a residential
structure.
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PORTABLE BUILDING: Any structure or edifice that encloses a space within its
walls and usually, but not necessarily, is covered by a roof and that is
mounted on skids, rails or other similar device, not including wheels, that
will allow such structure or edifice to be moved.
   PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the building and
structures thereon.
   STRUCTURAL ADDITION: Any roofed canopies or enclosed porch, room or
structure used in connection with a building; provided, the construction of a
concrete slab porch without a roof or walls shall not be a structural addition.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: To change the exterior foundation line or location of
a structure. (2010 Code § 22-12)
10-6-2: BUILDING PERMIT:
A.   Required: It shall be an offense for any person to change or permit the
change in the use of land or buildings or structures, or to erect, alter, move
or improve any building or structure, other than changing, adding or deleting
siding materials, in accordance with the building code until a building permit
has been obtained under the following conditions.
B.   Information Required: The applicant shall be required to furnish the
following information:
   1.   A plot plan legibly drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of
vehicles, and ingress and egress drives for all off street parking and loading
facilities.
   2.   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designed to accommodate.
   3.   Any additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed
to determine compliance with these regulations. (2010 Code § 22-11)
C.   Additional Requirements; Exception:
   1.   Residential Building Permit Defined: A "residential building permit"
shall be defined, for purposes of this subsection, as any building permit for a
single-family or a duplex residential structure and shall include construction
of a new structure, remodel of an existing structure, and the addition to an
existing structure. Not included under the definition of a residential building
permit, for purposes of this subsection, are a single-family or a duplex
carport, patio cover, storage building, accessory building, pool or fence.
   2.   Requirements: All applicants for issuance or renewal of residential
building permits shall, in addition to existing requirements of this title, be
required to:
      a.   Provide the city a certificate of insurance from the appropriate
insurer that the contractor has general liability insurance in an amount
required by other construction trade contractors licensed by the construction
industries board;
      b.   Provide written verification that the contractor has workers'
compensation insurance or a workers' compensation exemption verification
document; and
      c.   Pay the additional sum of four dollars fifty cents ($4.50), of which
four dollars ($4.00) will be forwarded to the Oklahoma uniform building code
commission.
   3.   Exception: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a
person or persons performing the construction or remodeling to his, her or
their own single-family or duplex structure on their own property regardless if
the construction or remodeling is to a single-family or duplex structure that
is also for rental purposes, unless the modifications are being performed by
and the permit is acquired by a general contractor or subcontractor, in which
case, the general contractor or subcontractor shall meet the requirements set
forth in this subsection. (Ord. 382, 2-8-2011)
D.   Records Maintained: A careful record of such applications and plot plans
shall be kept in the office of the building inspector. (2010 Code § 22-11)
10-6-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A.   Completion Of Improvements Required: Prior to the issuance of any
certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall complete, in a manner
satisfactory to the building inspector, all improvements required by these
regulations and as required by the mayor and city commission.
B.   Certificate Of Occupancy Required: No vacant land shall be occupied or
used, except for agricultural uses, and no building erected or structurally
altered shall be occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the building inspector.
C.   Time Of Application: A certificate of occupancy for the use of vacant land
or to change any use thereof shall be applied for before any such land shall be
occupied or used and a certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three
(3) days after application has been made; provided, that the use is in
conformity with the provisions of the ordinances of the city.
D.   Building Code Applicability: The certificate of occupancy for the use of
the building shall be as provided by the building code of the city.
E.   Fee:
   1.   No fee shall be charged for the original certificate of occupancy
issued in connection with construction of a building. (2010 Code § 22-11)
   2.   For all other certificates or copies of any original, there shall be a
charge as established by resolution of the city commission. (2010 Code § 22-11;
amd. 2012 Code)
10-6-4: EXCAVATION PERMIT:
No permit for excavation for any building shall be issued before application
has been made therefor. (2010 Code § 22-11)
10-6-5: PORTABLE BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to
erect, move in or place any portable building within the corporate limits of
the city without first securing a permit for such portable building from the
city clerk. There shall be no fee for such portable building permit. (2010 Code
§ 22-11)
CHAPTER 7
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-7-2: Zoning Map Incorporated
10-7-3: District Boundaries Established
10-7-4: Maintenance Of Official Zoning Map
10-7-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, and the promotion of public health, safety and
general welfare of the community, the following districts are hereby
established for the city:
A Agricultural
R Residential
C Commercial
R-C Residential/commercial
I Industrial
MHP Mobile home park
Zero lot line district overlay
RSF Residential single-family (Ord. 451, 1-10-2017)
10-7-2: ZONING MAP INCORPORATED:
The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts shall be established by
ordinance and shall be shown on a map entitled "zoning map of the city of
Perkins, Oklahoma", and the zoning map is hereby incorporated as a part of this
title. (2010 Code § 22-18)
10-7-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The boundaries of a zoning district shall extend to a centerline of abutting
streets, regardless of the legal description listed in establishing such
districts. In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the zoning map of the city, the planning commission, upon
written application or upon its own motion, shall recommend the location of
such boundaries to the board of adjustment, and the board of adjustment shall
make the final determination. (2010 Code § 22-19)
10-7-4: MAINTENANCE OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to maintain an up to date official
zoning map of the city, including all amendments directly adopted by the city
commission. (2010 Code § 22-20)
ARTICLE A. A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: General Description
10-7A-2: Uses Permitted
10-7A-3: Area And Height Regulations
10-7A-4: Signs And Billboards
10-7A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The A agricultural district is established for several purposes:
A.   To provide for the continued use of land for predominantly agricultural
purposes;
B.   To preserve undeveloped areas until they can feasibly be developed to
urban standards and with adequate public safeguards of health, safety and
welfare; and
C.   To restrict development in areas subject to severe inundation until such
time as it can be shown that these areas are no longer subject to flooding.
(2010 Code § 22-39)
10-7A-2: USES PERMITTED:
Within the A agricultural district, the following uses are permitted:
Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the permitted principal uses.
"Agriculture", as defined in section
10-1-4 of this title.
Churches and temples.
Elementary schools and high schools.
Golf courses, and including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt courses, or
miniature golf courses.
Municipal or community recreation centers.
Parks and forest preserves operated for profit.
Police or fire stations.
Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not for
profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries or
museums.
Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories or
sanatoriums.
Public or private hospitals or sanatoriums.
Public or private schools or colleges.
Public utility and service uses, including electric substations, gas regulator
stations, electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water transmission metering
and distribution equipment and structures, microwave relay towers, water
reservoirs or pumping stations, and other similar facilities.
Single-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of
construction. (2010 Code § 22-40; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7A-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
All lots and improvements within the A district shall meet the following
requirements:
A.   All lots shall have not less than one acre of land, and not more than one
principal building shall be placed on any one lot;
B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than one hundred feet (100');
C.   No improvement or structure shall exceed one hundred feet (100') in height
above the mean elevation of the lot;
D.   All structures shall have not less than a twenty five foot (25') front
yard setback;
E.   All principal structures shall have not less than a ten foot (10') side
yard setback;
F.   Accessory buildings may have a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10').
(2010 Code § 22-41; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7A-4: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, posters, bulletin boards or other similar displays shall be permitted
in the A district, except as follows:
A.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional or similar uses requiring an announcement
of its activities;
B.   One identification sign may be erected on each street frontage of a
single-family subdivision or permitted nonresidential uses; and
C.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises
may be erected on each street frontage of the parcel. (2010 Code § 22-42)
ARTICLE B. R RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: General Description
10-7B-2: Uses Permitted
10-7B-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Additional Requirements
10-7B-4: Area, Height And Supplemental Regulations
10-7B-5: Signs And Billboards
10-7B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This residential district is intended to provide for both low and high
population densities. It is established as a district in which the principal
uses of the land are for single-family and multi-family dwellings. The intent
is to prohibit commercial and industrial uses, or any other use which would
substantially interfere with the development or continuation of single-family
dwellings and multi-family dwellings in this district. It is further intended
to discourage any use that would generate traffic or create congestion on the
neighborhood streets other than the dwellings or similar residential uses in
this district. Additionally, it is intended to discourage any use which,
because of its character or size, would create requirements and costs for
public services beyond those if the district were developed solely for single-
family and multi-family or other similar residential uses. Moreover, the intent
is to encourage discontinuance of any existing uses that would not be permitted
under the provisions of this title. (2010 Code § 22-43)
10-7B-2: USES PERMITTED:
Within the R residential district, the following uses are permitted:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses when
located on the same lot.
Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building may include one
private garage.
Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
Duplex.
Multi-family dwelling.
Public and private schools.
Public park or playground.
Rooming or boarding house.
Single-family detached dwellings. (2010 Code § 22-44; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7B-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following uses may be permitted by the board of adjustment after public
hearing, provided they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to
applicable area regulations:
Childcare centers or day nurseries, provided they are located on a lot not less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area.
Churches, a minimum lot size of one acre.
Community services, cultural and utility facilities, provided they are located
on a lot of not less than one acre.
Convalescent homes, rest home, nursing home and hospitals, public or private.
Golf course, private or public, or country club; provided, that the chief
activity is for recreational purposes, and any commercial activity is accessory
or incidental thereto.
Home occupation; provided, that it is in keeping with the meaning of "home
occupation", as defined in section
10-1-4 of this title.
Junior high or senior high schools.
Library.
Mobile home parks, in compliance with chapter 10 of this title.
Plant nursery; provided, that no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith and no retailing of any material is carried on upon the
premises.
Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of the main
building and will be removed when the main structure is completed. (2010 Code §
22-45)
10-7B-4: AREA, HEIGHT AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
All lots and improvements within the R district shall meet the following
requirements:
A.   All lots shall have an area of not less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet for a single-family dwelling, seven thousand (7,000) square feet for a
two-family dwelling and nine thousand (9,000) square feet for each dwelling
unit over two (2) for multiple-family dwellings;
B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than fifty feet (50') for
single-family dwelling, fifty feet (50') for two- family dwelling and seventy
five feet (75') for multi-family dwelling and all other uses;
C.   Not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements, except that duplex shall not exceed sixty percent (60%)
coverage and single-family improvement fifty percent (50%). Paved areas are not
considered improvements within the meaning of this provision;
D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height
above the mean elevation of the lot;
E.   Minimum front yard setback of twenty feet (20') shall be provided on all
single-family, duplex and multi-family dwellings;
F.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there shall
be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than fifteen
feet (15'); and
G.   A rear yard of twenty feet (20') of the depth of the lot shall be provided
for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be
located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line.
H.   Not more than one principal building shall be placed on any one lot. (2010
Code § 22-46; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7B-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
A.   Temporary bulletin board or sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in
area, pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which
board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises is leased, hired or
sold.
B.   One bulletin board may be erected on each street frontage of an
educational, religious, institutional or similar use requiring announcement of
its activities. The bulletin board shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
surface area or fifteen feet (15') in height, and illumination, if any, shall
be by constant light.
C.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property.
D.   One nonilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and
not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or occupants, or name
or address of the premises. (2010 Code § 22-47)
ARTICLE C. C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: General Description
10-7C-2: Uses Permitted
10-7C-3: Uses By Review
10-7C-4: Site Development Plan
10-7C-5: Area And Supplemental Regulations
10-7C-6: Business Signs
10-7C-7: Appeals
10-7C-8: Amendments To Site Development Plan
10-7C-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This district is intended to provide for the normal range of commercial
services within the community in such a manner that the district will
accommodate both quick stop and longer visit shopping, as well as provide for
additional retail, cultural and entertainment trade. It also provides for the
conduct of general and professional offices to provide for the needs and
convenience of the people of the city and the wider community in such a manner
as to not be offensive to a general neighborhood containing residential,
religious, recreational and educational elements. It is intended that this
district be located as not to introduce traffic into a solely residential
district. Additionally, district regulations are intended to minimize traffic
congestion and noise, provide adequate and controlled parking and expansion
area, allow safe pedestrian movement, minimize adverse impacts on residential
areas, encourage improved commercial site design and layout, and promote the
reuse and development of existing commercial structures, and encourage visual
quality in commercial development. Outdoor storage of goods and merchandise is
prohibited. (2010 Code § 22-48)
10-7C-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in the C commercial district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
A.   Any use permitted in any residential district, offices for executive,
administrative, professional accounting and insurance offices, banks, credit
unions, savings and loan companies and associations, real estate offices,
clerical, stenographic, drafting and sales, and nonprofit corporations, and
other businesses which perform services on the premises.
B.   Publicly owned building, exchanges and public utility offices, but not
including electrical or gas substations, museums, cultural centers and open
space designed to serve persons conducting business in this district,
convalescent home, rest home, nursing home and hospitals, public or private.
C.   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on the
premises for persons residing in adjacent residential areas, such as, but not
limited to, bakeries or stores selling books, stationery, clothing, dairy
products, delicatessens, dry goods, florists, groceries, hardware, meat market,
pharmacies and self-service gas stations (no repair).
D.   Personal service establishments which perform services, such as, but not
limited to, appliance and small items shops (watches, radios, televisions,
shoes, etc.), beauty parlors or barbershops, dance schools, photographic,
artists and other miscellaneous studios, post offices, self-service laundries,
tailor shops and governmental office buildings serving persons living in
adjacent residential areas.
E.   Professional services, including medical clinics (outpatient only) and
offices of doctors, dentists, osteopaths and similar professions. (2010 Code §
22-48)
10-7C-3: USES BY REVIEW:
A.   Scope: The development and administration of a zoning ordinance is based
upon the division of the city into zone districts within which districts the
use of land and buildings and the bulk and position of buildings and structures
in relation to the land are relatively uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are occasions when in addition to the principal permitted uses, other
uses, hereinafter referred to as "specific uses," because of their unique
characteristics and because of the uniqueness of their proposed location, may
be allowed after careful consideration of the impact of the particular uses
upon the city at large, the surrounding neighborhood and the public facilities
thereon.
B.   Conditions for Authorization: A specific use permit may be granted only
upon a finding that:
   1.   The value and qualities of the city at large and the neighborhood
surrounding the subject area are not adversely impacted;
   2.   The specific use is consistent with the intent and purpose of the
particular zone to promote public health, safety and general welfare; and
   3.   The specific use is in keeping with the land use plan of the city.
C.   Uses Permitted: The following uses may be permitted after review in
accordance with subsection B of this section:
      Adult entertainment establishment.
      Airport - heliport.
      Bus station/stop.
      Billiard parlors, pool halls.
      Building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical contractor shops.
      Business schools.
      Car wash.
      Cemetery.
      Churches.
      Ceramic shops.
      Commercial greenhouses and garden supply shops.
      Commercial marijuana growth facilities.
      Commercial resort facilities.
      Commercial theme parks.
      Convalescent home.
      Convict pre-release centers.
      Crematories.
      Cultural or heritage centers.
      Detention centers - juvenile and adult.
      Driving ranges.
      Electric generation plants and/or substations.
      Golf courses.
      Governmental services.
      Gun clubs.
      Gun shooting ranges.
      Halfway houses.
      Hospitals.
      Industrial uses in excess of forty (40) acres.
      Kennels.
      Landfills.
      Libraries.
      Marijuana storage facilities.
      Marijuana processing facilities.
      Mausoleums.
      Mini-storage/storage facilities.
      Mining and mineral processing.
      Mortuary establishments.
      Museums.
      Private schools.
      Public schools.
      Public or private parking lots needed to accommodate any use permitted in
the commercial zoning districts.
      Recycling centers.
      Refuse transfer stations.
      Restaurants, cafes or drive-in restaurants.
      Service stations (excluding body repair work).
      Small box discount stores.
      Trade schools.
      Transmitting tower (excluding amateur radio tower).
      Water treatment facilities.
      Wholesale marijuana facilities.
      Other uses which, in the opinion of the planning commission, are similar
to the above uses and are in keeping with the general description of the zoning
district and meet the three (3) standards as specified in subsection B of this
section.
D.   Small box discount stores are a permitted specific use subject to the
following separation requirements: No small box discount store shall be located
within one (1) mile of any other small box discount store or within two hundred
feet (200') of any property used primarily for a single-family residence, a
two-family residence, a town home, or any apartment building. The separation
distances shall be measured from property line of the small box discount store
to the property line of the property containing the residential use. This
separation provision shall not apply to any small box discount store that can
demonstrate it was in operation at the location requested in the application
for specific use permit prior to November 8, 2022 and that it has operated
continuously under the same business name since that time.
E.   Notice And Public Hearing Required: The city commission may grant a use
that is listed under the uses by review in a particular zone or as otherwise
provided for after recommendation and at least one public hearing by the
planning commission. The subject property will be required to be posted twenty
(20) days prior to the public hearing. In addition, prior to the hearing, a
written notice shall be mailed to all owners of real property located within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary of the property
proposed for the specific use permit. The applicant shall, at his own cost,
provide the city with a certified list of property owners from an abstractor,
together with a copy of any restrictive covenants that are applicable to the
tract which is the subject of the specific use permit application. The mailed
and posted notices shall contain the following:
   1.   Legal description of the property and the street address or approximate
location in the municipality;
   2.   Present zoning of the property and specific use sought by the
applicant;
   3.   Date, time and place of the public hearing.
F.   Application: An application for a specific use permit shall be filed with
the city manager or his designee. Any evidence as may be necessary to enable
the planning commission and city commission to properly consider the request
should accompany the application.
G.   Preapplication Review: Prior to submission of a site plan, the applicant
should discuss with the city manager or his designee the procedure and the
requirements of the general layout of the site, utilities, access to arterials,
general design and narrative, the availability of existing services, and
similar matters. The intent of the preapplication review is to expedite the
site plan review process and to facilitate the approval of the development.
H.   Void Permit: If:
   1.   The applicant is not compliant with the specific use permit or any
condition of approval;
   2.   The specific use is not in operation within two years after the date of
its approval; or
   3.   The specific use ceases operation for a period longer than two (2)
years, then the permit shall be considered void and the use shall require
approval of a new application. (2010 Code § 22-48; amd. Ord. 492, 2-14-2023;
Ord. 500, 6-11-2024)
10-7C-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
In the interest of protecting the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants
of the city, and in order to protect the quality of life within said city, the
city shall not issue a commercial building permit, as provided for by section
10-6-2 of this title, until the planning commission has reviewed and approved a
site development plan. Review and approval or disapproval of such site
development plan shall be at a public hearing held pursuant to the provisions
of subsection
 1-6-3J of this code. For purposes of this section, "business" or "commercial"
shall mean that structure that is to be used for the employment of one or more
persons for the purpose of earning a livelihood, activities of persons to
improve their economic conditions and generally relate to commercial and
industrial engagements. In considering such commercial or business building
permit application, the planning commission shall comply with the following
procedures and requirements:
A.   Notice And Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a hearing to
consider approval or denial of such site plan within twenty (20) days of the
filing of such commercial or business site development plan with the city. The
planning commission shall give at least five (5) days' notice of such hearing
to the applicant. The purpose of such hearing shall be for review and
consideration of approving or denying the site development plan as submitted.
B.   Plan Information Required: The developer and/or owner shall prepare and
submit to the city a site development plan, which site development plan shall
contain the following information:
   1.   Written legal description;
   2.   Scale drawing of the property in the appropriate dimensions prepared
and signed by a registered architect, engineer or surveyor;
   3.   Scale, north arrow, date and legend;
   4.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner and applicant;
   5.   Location and size of existing easements, utilities and rights of way,
and any future easements, utilities and rights of way;
   6.   Location of existing building and structures with appropriate
dimensions;
   7.   Location of proposed buildings, structures and other items with
dimensions showing compliance with the applicable building, fire and zoning
standards of this city code;
   8.   Location and type of landscaping to verify the attaining of fifty (50)
landscaping points for each one hundred (100) square feet of required landscape
area, pursuant to the landscape policy of the planning commission;
   9.   Location, arrangement and dimensions of automobile parking spaces,
width of the aisles and the angle of parking, to include truck loading and
unloading spaces and docks and handicap spaces;
   10.   Location and dimensions of all vehicular entrances, exits and drives;
   11.   A separate written request, if needed, for any items that are
requested to be waived or amended, with appropriate material necessary to
justify the request;
   12.   Location and dimensions of pedestrian entrances, exits, walks and
walkways, and handicap access;
   13.   General drainage system to comply with the drainage ordinances and
policies of the city, indicating the location, size and grade of ditches, catch
basins and dips, and connections to existing drainage systems and on site
stormwater detention systems;
   14.   Location and materials of walks and fences;
   15.   Location, size, height and orientation of all signs, other than signs
flat on building facades;
   16.   Size of the site;
   17.   Finished grading by contours of two feet (2') supplemented where
necessary by spot elevation if required by the building inspector.
C.   Site Plan Submission And Review:
   1.   All site plans shall be reviewed and approved by the planning
commission prior to the issuance of any building permit or occupancy permit for
the property.
   2.   The site plan shall be submitted to the building inspector no later
than ten (10) days prior to the planning commission meeting date at which it is
to be considered.
   3.   The building inspector shall review the site plan for completeness and
compliance with the provisions of these regulations. Any necessary
modifications shall be forwarded to the applicant for resubmittal.
   4.   After review, the building inspector shall provide to the planning
commission a written report recommending and listing reasons for the approval
or denial of the site plan.
   5.   After submission, the planning commission shall consider the site
development plan as submitted at a meeting of that body. The planning
commission, after considering and reviewing said site development plan, shall
either approve or disapprove such site plan.
D.   Approval: After approval of a site development plan and issuance of a
commercial building permit, the land within the area covered by the site
development plan shall be developed only in accordance with the site
development plan as finally approved by the planning commission. Any change,
erasure, modification, revision or deviation from that plan shall be considered
invalid and a violation of the provisions of this section, unless said change,
erasure, modification, revision or deviation shall have first been submitted to
the city and approved according to the above procedure. It is further provided,
that should a change in property ownership occur after approval of the site
development plan, the site development plan as approved by the planning
commission shall be honored and maintained in its entirety. (2010 Code § 22-48)
10-7C-5: AREA AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
A.   Access: All site plans shall have adequate and safe vehicular access to
adjacent streets. No curb cut or driveway will be permitted within one hundred
feet (100') of any intersection, measured along the right of way line from the
property corner to the center of the driveway, unless there is frontage of less
than one hundred feet (100') at the time of passage hereof, in which case a
driveway may be allowed the maximum possible distance from the property corner.
Joint use of a single driveway by two (2) abutting property owners may be
authorized by the planning commission when inadequate space or separation
exists in order to ensure safety of the motorist along a public street and
limit access points. Ingress and egress points shall be limited to one cut,
with a maximum of thirty six feet (36') at the property line. Ingress and
egress drives shall be built in accordance with the specifications and policies
governing curb and utility cuts. Access to primary and secondary arterials will
be allowed only after the property owner provides adequate traffic control of
ingress and egress as approved by the city engineer. Additional driveways may
be considered and granted when the planning commission deems them to be in the
public interests.
B.   Area Regulations: The requirements for approval of site plans shall be as
follows:
   1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall set back from the street right of way
line to provide a front yard having not less than twenty five feet (25') in
depth; provided, that such setback shall not apply to any structure on Main
Street or any area of exclusive commercial use.
   2.   Side Yard: On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district or any
residential structure, there shall be a side yard not less than ten feet (10').
For uses located on corner lots, there shall be a side yard setback of not less
than fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner
lot, and twenty five feet (25') in all other cases.
   3.   Rear Yard: The rear yard area shall be twenty five feet (25') and if
the building is to be serviced from the rear, there shall be provided an
alleyway, service court, rear yard, or combination thereof, of not less than
thirty feet (30').
C.   Lighting:
   1.   All lighting in parking areas, as part of signs and advertising, or
special lighting, shall be so arranged to avoid unreasonable reflection or
radiation into any residential zone.
   2.   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity which will not interfere with adjacent land uses or
the use of adjacent streets. (2010 Code § 22-48)
D.   Parking: The provisions of section
10-8-7 of this title shall be complied with.
E.   Surfacing: All of the property used for parking of vehicles, for the
storage and display of merchandise and all driveways used for vehicle ingress
and egress shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a standard acceptable to
the City Engineer and properly maintained. All other areas of the property
shall be maintained in good condition year round or be provided with an all
weather surface. (2010 Code § 22-48)
F.   Screening: On the property adjoining a Residential District, not separated
by a street, there shall be provided an aesthetic visual barrier consisting of
suitable natural and/or manmade material, at least seventy five percent (75%)
opaque and not less than five feet (5') in height. The property owner and/or
developer shall submit a proposal for screening that will meet the screening
requirements. The proposal shall be in the form of a drawing of a typical
section of the screen and a list of the materials to be used. The Planning
Commission may require reasonable changes in the proposal before adopting it as
part of the site plan. The screening and screening material provided in
accordance with the adopted site plan shall be maintained in good condition. In
the event adjoining property is being utilized for dwelling purposes at the
time commercial development is proposed, screening may be required. (2010 Code
§ 22-48; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 489, 9-13-2022)
10-7C-6: BUSINESS SIGNS:
A.   Signs And Advertising: Nameplates and signs relating only to the use of
the store or to the products sold on the premises are permitted. This Code
shall be complied with. Mobile signs shall not be permitted in any location
that will obstruct the vision of motorists and shall be satisfactorily anchored
to prevent a hazard by moving unexpectedly. Mobile signs shall be limited to a
duration of sixty (60) days per year at any location.
B.   Business Signs And Displays: Business signs, poster boards, bulletin
boards or similar displays in the C Commercial District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   1.   Business signs shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet in
surface area and thirty five feet (35') in height identifying the business or
activity conducted on the premises. Ground signs shall not exceed eight feet
(8') in height. Ground signs are not permitted on lots that do not have
setbacks on the front and sides.
   2.   Lots without both front and side setbacks may have one business sign,
not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in surface area, and identifying the
business or activity conduced on the premises may be attached to the building
on each street frontage of the building. Signs that extend from the building
frontage must overhang at a height of not less than ten feet (10'), and shall
not have a maximum projection greater than six feet (6'). In cases where two
(2) or more businesses occupy the same building, the total surface area may not
exceed the thirty two (32) square foot limitations unless the frontage is fifty
feet (50') or greater, then a thirty two (32) square foot sign is permitted for
each business.
   3.   Signs with flashing lights are not permitted.
   4.   A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises may be erected on each street frontage. The sign shall not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in surface area or eight feet (8') in height, and
illumination, if any, shall be by constant light. All signs shall be erected on
private property and shall not encroach upon any public street or walk, and
shall not overhang at a height of less than ten feet (10'), and shall not have
a maximum projection greater than six feet (6'). (Ord. 466, 10-9-2018)
10-7C-7: APPEALS:
Appeals to any decision of the Planning Commission may be taken by any person
aggrieved thereby to the City Commission. Appeals shall be taken within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision by filing with the City Clerk a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a filing fee as
established by resolution of the City Commission at the Office of the City
Clerk at the time the notice is filed. The Chairperson of the Planning
Commission shall forthwith transmit to the City Commission copies of all the
papers constituting the record of said matter, together with a copy of the
ruling or order from which the appeal is taken. An appeal stays all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from. The City Commission shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney. The City Commission shall not rehear an appeal once decided
unless it is shown by the appellant that all pertinent facts of the case were
not brought before the City Commission at the public hearing, and that for some
reason he was prevented from presenting such facts, or that the facts of the
case have materially changed since the public hearing. (2010 Code § 22-48; amd.
2012 Code)
10-7C-8: AMENDMENTS TO SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Minor changes to the site plan may be accomplished administratively through the
building inspector, so long as substantial compliance is maintained with the
approved site plan. Proposed changes which could represent a significant
departure from the site plan, as approved by the planning commission or mayor
and city commission, shall require resubmittal. Major changes to an approved
site plan which would require resubmittal shall include, but not be limited to,
an increase in the bulk of any building by more than five percent (5%), and
increase in residential density, or an increase in total ground area covered by
buildings by more than five percent (5%). (2010 Code § 22-48)
ARTICLE D. R-C RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7D-1: General Description
10-7D-2: Declaration Of Residential Or Commercial
10-7D-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This district is intended to provide for any a mixture of uses found in either
the R residential zone or the C commercial zone. Owners of any individual lot
or lots located within this zone shall declare such lot or lots to be either
residential or commercial. That declaration shall determine the zoning
requirements for such sites. (2010 Code § 22-50)
10-7D-2: DECLARATION OF RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL:
A.   Residential: Sites declared as residential in this zone shall comply with
the requirements specified under article B, "R Residential District", of this
chapter.
B.   Commercial: Sites declared as commercial in this zone shall comply with
the requirements specified under article C, "C Commercial District", of this
chapter. (2010 Code § 22-50; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE E. I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7E-1: General Description
10-7E-2: Uses Permitted
10-7E-3: Area And Height Regulations
10-7E-4: Standards
10-7E-5: Signs And Billboards
10-7E-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the I industrial district is to provide a location for
industries that do not by their nature create nuisance. The intent is to
preserve this land for industry in a location beneficial to industries and to
prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the traffic generated and other
potentially objectionable influences created in this district, a buffer or
setback area between this district is required. (2010 Code § 22-51)
10-7E-2: USES PERMITTED:
Within the I industrial district, the following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal use.
Any of the following uses:
Blacksmiths, tinsmiths and sheet metal shops.
Bottling works.
Canning or preserving factories.
Cold storage plants.
Ice cream production and distribution.
Laundry and dry cleaning plants.
Machine shops.
Machinery rental, sales and service.
Manufacturing, fabricating, assembling, repairing, storing and cleaning,
servicing or testing of any of the following materials, goods or merchandise:
Apparel.
Beverages (nonalcoholic, processing and bottling).
Building materials specialties.
Bulk fuel sales and storage.
Clothing.
Compounding and packaging of chemicals.
Dairy products.
Drugs and pharmaceutical products.
Electrical and acoustical products and components.
Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast).
Furniture.
Glass products.
Ice, dry and natural.
Jewelry.
Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties.
Metal products and utensils.
Milk, bottling and distribution.
Monumental stone cutting.
Motor freight terminals.
Musical instruments.
Optical goods.
Paper products, including boxes and containers.
Pattern shops.
Processing of meat and vegetable products, including the slaughter of animals.
Radios, phonographs, recorders and television sets and parts.
Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and sleeping facilities
for transient railroad labor.
Sign painting.
Soldering and welding shops.
Spray painting and mixing.
Textiles.
Toys and children's vehicles.
Trailers and carts.
Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers.
Any other manufacturing process or establishment.
Building material sales.
Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
Compounding, processing and blending of chemical products, but not including
any materials which decompose by detonation.
General and administrative offices.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops.
Mail order houses.
Manufacturing and assembling of electrical and electronic products and
equipment.
Manufacturing and assembling, or any combination of such processes, of products
from wood, cork, glass, leather, iron, steel, fur, plastic, felt and other
textiles.
Printing and binding plants.
Research laboratories.
Warehouse and storage facilities.
Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and lift stations. (2010
Code § 22-53)
10-7E-3: AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
A.   There are no area requirements in an I district.
B.   There are no lot frontage requirements in an I district.
C.   Not more than ninety percent (90%) of the lot area shall be covered with
improvements. Paved areas are not considered as improvements within the meaning
of this provision.
D.   There are no height requirements in an I district.
E.   No structure shall be erected, commenced or maintained which has a front
yard of less than twenty five feet (25').
F.   No structure shall be erected, commenced or maintained which has a side
yard of less than twenty five feet (25').
G.   No structure shall be erected, commenced or maintained which has a rear
yard of less than twenty five feet (25'). (2010 Code § 22-54; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7E-4: STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in the I industrial
district, after the effective date hereof, shall be so operated as to comply
with the following standards:
A.   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a watchman
may reside on the premises;
B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted, except as incidental to or
accessory to a permitted use;
C.   No noise, either continuous or intermittent, from any operation conducted
on the premises, other than that emanating from vehicular traffic, shall be
detectable at any boundary line of the I district;
D.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas or odorous or particulate
matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot on
which the use is located;
E.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of the lot on which
the use is located; (2010 Code § 22-52)
F.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wheresoever necessary in order
to deflect light away from any residential district; (2010 Code § 22-52; amd.
2012 Code)
G.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive vapors or
gases is prohibited;
H.   No outside storage of equipment or material, except equipment for daily
use, shall be permitted in such a location where it can be viewed from any
public street; or
I.   Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall be performed
within a completely enclosed building and exposed sources of light shall be
screened so as not to be detectable beyond the lot lines. (2010 Code § 22-52)
10-7E-5: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs and billboards in the I district shall conform to the requirements in
section
10-7A-4 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 22-55)
ARTICLE F. ZERO LOT LINE DISTRICT OVERLAY
SECTION:
10-7F-1: General Description
10-7F-2: Primary Intent
10-7F-3: Designation Procedure
10-7F-4: Townhouses
10-7F-5: Conflicting Legislation
10-7F-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The zero lot line district is a supplemental district designation designed to
facilitate development or high density single-family housing in which houses
may be located directly on one of the side lot lines. Designation of an area as
a zero lot line district will be accomplished through the adoption of an
overlay zoning district which amends the city code requirements for the R
residential district, as specified in article B of this chapter. (2010 Code §
22-104; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7F-2: PRIMARY INTENT:
The primary intent for the use of these regulations is to promote the
development of higher density housing options, such that detached dwellings
may, where permitted, be located in such a manner that an exterior sidewall is
constructed with no setback from an interior property line, as described in
article B of this chapter, but otherwise subject to the conditions set out in
those sections. (2010 Code § 22-104; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7F-3: DESIGNATION PROCEDURE:
An area shall be designated a zero lot line district in accordance with the
regulations set forth below:
A.   Minimum Conditions: Minimum conditions required are:
   1.   No windows, doors or other openings are permitted in the zero setback
sidewall.
   2.   The side yard opposite the zero setback side on the same property shall
be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width.
   3.   A perpetual ten foot (10') easement for the purpose of building
maintenance and separation between structures shall be provided on the lot
adjacent to the exterior dwelling sidewall along the zero setback line;
provided, that:
      a.   The maintenance easement shall allow access to principal buildings
and to any accessory structures or vegetation that do not otherwise have
reasonable access to their full height and width along the zero setback side
for the purpose of maintenance;
      b.   Such easement must be shown on a subdivision plat, or otherwise
recorded by an irrevocable covenant which shall run with the land, whereby
proof of such recorded documents shall be submitted with application for a
building permit for any structure to be so constructed;
      c.   Roof overhangs from principal buildings may penetrate the easement
on the adjacent lot a maximum of two feet (2'), excluding gutter, but the roof
shall be so designed that water runoff from the structure placed on the lot
line is limited to the easement area;
      d.   Spacing between structures shall be no less than ten feet (10'),
measured from the outermost projections of combustible materials;
      e.   If a driveway is to be located along the lot line, a note of waiver
must be recorded on the plat, or permission otherwise obtained from the city
zoning administrator/code enforcement officer for a curb cut turning radius
encroachment on the frontage of the adjacent property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb82112e6611a4e902cbcf8785fdcf05504e9a34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1931.png]
 
B.   Initiation Procedure: Preliminary plat reviews with planning staff members
are encouraged. Once the staff members have determined that an area meets the
criteria for designation as a zero lot line district, a hearing shall be set
where the planning commission will receive input and consider the proposed plat
for the district. Notice of this hearing shall be given in writing to all
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed district, and
by publication in a local newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall
include a legal description of the areas to be included in the district, and
the date, time and location of the hearing. The notices shall be mailed and
published at least twenty (20) days before the hearing. Should the planning
commission not approve the proposed plat, the zero lot line district
designation process will not continue.
C.   Adoption: The city commission may designate an area as a zero lot line
district after meeting the following criteria:
   1.   Review: The overlay district shall be reviewed by the city staff and
the planning commission for compliance with this article, other provisions of
this code, and the comprehensive plan. Other matters, which may be considered,
are the effect of the proposed district on traffic conditions, utilities and
other public services, and the impact of development on properties surrounding
the areas to be designated. The findings and recommendation of the city staff
and the planning commission shall then be reported to the city commission. Upon
required notice being given, the city commission shall review the application
at a public hearing, at which time they shall receive comments from interested
parties and receive the recommendations of staff and the planning commission.
   2.   Approval: The city commission may approve or deny the request for
district designation. If approved, the district shall become part of the
comprehensive plan of the city and shall be documented by adoption and
publication pursuant to the city commission and by proper changes in the
official zoning maps of the city. Each district which is created shall be shown
on the official zoning maps as an overlay to the existing zoning. (2010 Code §
22-104)
10-7F-4: TOWNHOUSES:
A.   Attached dwellings commonly referred to as townhouses may have more than
two (2) adjacent units to the whole structure. These types of dwellings are
subject to the following conditions:
   1.   Common walls shall not contain doors, windows or other openings between
the adjoining units and shall be designed and constructed to meet the
applicable building and fire code requirements; and
   2.   The interior dwelling units of the principal structure shall be
considered a separate lot, delineated by the common vertical wall, along the
mutual property boundary, and not subject to subsections
10-7F-3A2 and A3 of this article.
B.   Dwellings of this type may have common (shared) driveways. Garages and
parking structures may be attached to the unit or may be detached; provided,
that the lot size is suitable to allow a detached parking structure. (2010 Code
§ 22-104)
10-7F-5: CONFLICTING LEGISLATION:
In the event any provision of this article, or any district ordinance which is
adopted pursuant to these regulations, conflicts with or is inconsistent in any
manner with any other section of this title, or any section of this code, the
provision of this article or the district ordinance shall supersede and take
precedence over such portions or portion in conflict. (2010 Code § 22-104)
ARTICLE G. RSF RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7G-1: General Description
10-7G-2: Uses Permitted
10-7G-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Additional Requirements
10-7G-4: Area, Height And Supplemental Regulations
10-7G-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
This Residential Single Family District is intended to provide for both low and
high population densities. It is established as a district in which the
principal uses of the land are for single-family dwellings. The intent is to
prohibit commercial and industrial uses, or any other use which would
substantially interfere with the development or continuation of single-family
dwellings in this district. It is further intended to discourage any use that
would generate traffic or create congestion on the neighborhood streets other
than the dwellings or similar residential uses in this district. Additionally,
it is intended to discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services beyond those if the
district were developed solely for single-family residential uses. (Ord. 461,
4-11-2017)
10-7G-2: USES PERMITTED:
Within the RSF Residential District, the following uses are permitted:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses when
located on the same lot.
Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building may include one (1)
private garage.
Agricultural uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
Public and private schools.
Public park or playground.
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 461, 4-11-2017)
10-7G-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following uses may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment after public
hearing, provided they meet the requirements noted for each use in addition to
applicable area regulations:
Childcare centers or day nurseries, provided they are located on a lot not less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area.
Churches, a minimum lot size of one (1) acre.
Community services, cultural and utility facilities, provided they are located
on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
Home occupation; provided, that it is in keeping with the meaning of "home
occupation", as defined in section
10-1-4 of this title. (Ord. 461, 4-11-2017)
10-7G-4: AREA, HEIGHT AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
All lots and improvements within the RSF District shall meet the following
requirements:
A.   All lots shall have an area of not less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet for a single-family dwelling;
B.   Each lot shall have a frontage of not less than fifty feet (50') for
single-family dwelling;
C.   Not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the lot area shall be covered
with improvements. Paved areas are not considered improvements within the
meaning of this provision;
D.   No improvement or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height
above the mean elevation of the lot;
E.   Minimum front yard setback of twenty feet (20') shall be provided on all
dwellings;
F.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there shall
be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than fifteen
feet (15'); and
G.   A rear yard of twenty feet (20') of the depth of the lot shall be provided
for the principal building. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be
located in the rear yard of a main building; provided, however, that no
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line.
H.   Not more than one (1) principal building shall be placed on any one (1)
lot. (Ord. 461, 4-11-2017)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL OR SEVERAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Application Of Regulations In Districts Authorized
10-8-2: Use Of Yards And Division Lots
10-8-3: Storage, Parking Of Trailers, Commercial Vehicles In Residential
Districts
10-8-4: Display Of Trailers And Commercial Vehicles
10-8-5: Screening Walls Or Fences
10-8-6: Sewer Service
10-8-7: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-8-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS IN DISTRICTS AUTHORIZED:
No land, building, structure or improvement shall be used and no building,
structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved, altered,
enlarged or rebuilt which is designed, arranged or intended to be used or
maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance with the use,
height, area, coverage, yard, space and other requirements established in the
district in which such land, building, structure or improvement is located, and
such use is authorized, except as may be legally nonconforming. (2010 Code §
22-21)
10-8-2: USE OF YARDS AND DIVISION LOTS:
A.   No building, structure or improvement shall be permitted to encroach upon
required yard spaces set forth in the provisions of this title; provided,
however, that surfaced parking facilities, signs, fences, side lot lines and
gasoline pumping service units may be permitted to occupy required yard space
unless otherwise prohibited in those districts permitting such improvements and
provided that no inoperative vehicle may be stored in the front yard or side
yard of a lot in a residential district.
B.   An improved lot shall not hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots
unless all lots resulting from such division comply with all the applicable
yard, space, area, parking and loading regulations of the zoning district in
which located. (2010 Code § 22-22)
10-8-3: STORAGE, PARKING OF TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS:
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including, travel, camping and
hauling, and mobile homes, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by
a dwelling or on any lot in any residential district, except in accordance with
the following provisions:
A.   No more than one commercial vehicle, which does not exceed two and one-
half (21/2) tons' rated capacity, per family living on the premises shall be
permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling
explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted;
B.   No more than one camping or travel trailer or hauling trailer per family
living on the premises shall be permitted. A camping or travel trailer shall
not be occupied permanently while it is parked or stored in any area within the
incorporated limits, except in a mobile home park authorized under the
ordinances of the city, subject to the provisions of chapter 10 of this title;
C.   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a mobile home park which
is in conformity with this title, except as is provided by chapter 9,
"Nonconformities", of this title. (2010 Code § 22-23)
10-8-4: DISPLAY OF TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types may be displayed in such
commercial districts allowing sales of the vehicles or in such industrial
districts manufacturing the same; provided, however, the vehicles may not be
used for dwelling purposes, either temporarily or permanently, except in a
mobile home park authorized under the ordinances of the city. (2010 Code § 22-
24)
10-8-5: SCREENING WALLS OR FENCES:
A.   Specifications: When the provisions of this title require the construction
of a screening wall or fence as a condition for the initiation and subsequent
continuance of a use, the screening wall or fence:
   1.   Shall be constructed, designed and arranged to provide visual
separation of uses, irrespective of vegetation;
   2.   Shall not be less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in
height;
   3.   Shall be constructed with all braces and supports on the interior; and
   4.   Shall not cross or block city utility easements. (2010 Code § 22-25)
B.   Maintenance Required: The screening wall or fence shall be maintained by
the owner of the lot containing the use requiring the construction of the
screening. Failure to maintain after notice by the city clerk shall constitute
an offense hereunder. (2010 Code § 22-26)
10-8-6: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in any district shall be erected or commenced which does
not have a connection to the public sewer system, except as provided in title
8, chapter 4 of this code. (2010 Code § 22-27; amd. 2012 Code)
10-8-7: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Parking Space Defined: The term "parking space", as used in this section,
shall mean a parcel of land or a stall two hundred (200) square feet in area,
exclusive of drives, lanes or aisles, provided with an unobstructed access
thereto from a public street, alley or other open space approved by the city.
(2010 Code § 22-28)
B.   Off Street Parking Required: In all residential, commercial and industrial
use districts, "parking space", as defined in subsection A of this section,
shall be provided and maintained as accessory to every principal use, building
or structure enumerated in this section, whenever the principal use, building
or structure is hereafter erected or enlarged. (2010 Code § 22-29)
C.   Schedule Of Parking Space Requirements: The regulations in this section
shall apply to any site proposed for development after use date of adoption.
For buildings or structures containing more than one occupancy use, the total
number of parking spaces required shall be the sum of the number of parking
spaces for each individual occupancy or use. Such parking space shall be
provided for any principal use, building or structure in compliance with the
following schedule of requirements:
PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Assembly halls, convention halls,       1 for each 4 fixed seats, or 1 for each
exhibition halls, auditoriums, lecture  60 square feet of assembly floor space
halls, theaters, stadiums, and any      where the seats are not fixed, with a
other places of indoor or outdoor       minimum of 4.
assembly
Automobile service stations             1 for each 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        lot area, with a minimum of 2.
Automobile washing stations             4 reserve spaces per washing stall
                                        required.
Barbershops and beauty shops            2 for each chair, with a minimum of 2.
                                        4 for each lane, plus 1 per 300 square
Bowling alley                           feet of gross floor used for other
                                        purposes.
                                        2 for each 3 employees, plus 1 for each
Childcare centers and nursery schools   6 children that the center is licensed
                                        to accommodate.
Churches or places of worship           1 for 5 seats, at maximum capacity,
                                        with a minimum of 4.
                                        1 for each 2 washing or cleaning
Cleaners, automatic self-help           machines, or 1 for each 100 square feet
                                        of gross floor area, whichever is the
                                        greater.
Drive-in windows                        4 reserve spaces per drive-in window.
Dwellings:
Single-family                           1 per bedroom, with a minimum of 2
                                        spaces.
Multiple-family                         2 per unit in the dwelling with a
                                        minimum of 4.
Group home: A group home is a facility,
licensed by the state, providing
housing and rehabilitative services to  1 off street parking space for each
persons with developmental              staff member calculated on the basis of
disabilities. For purposes of zoning, a the maximum on duty at any 1 time, and
group home providing housing and        1 parking space for each 4 residents.
rehabilitative services to 5 or fewer
persons, not including staff, shall be
considered a single family
Home occupation                         1 in addition to the space required for
                                        such residential dwelling.
                                        1 per 1,000 feet of gross floor area,
Hotels, transient                       or 1 per bedroom, whichever is the
                                        greater.
Libraries and art galleries             1 for each 100 feet of floor area, with
                                        the minimum of 2.
Manufacturing, warehousing or           3/4 space per each employee, calculated
wholesaling                             on the basis of maximum employees on
                                        duty at any 1 time.
Medical clinics                         1 for each 150 feet of gross floor
                                        area, with a minimum of 3.
                                        1 for each 100 square feet of gross
Mortuaries and funeral homes            floor area, or 1 for each 3 seats in
                                        assembly area, whichever is greater,
                                        with a minimum of 3.
Motels                                  1 per sleeping room.
Office buildings                        1 for each 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area, with a minimum of 4.
Passenger stations                      2 per 100 square feet of waiting area.
Private clubs                           1 for each 4 seats provided for
                                        customer use, plus 1 per employee.
Public housing, low income              1 per dwelling unit with a minimum of
                                        2.
Rest homes, philanthropic, rooming      1 for each 4 beds, or 1 for each
houses, asylums, hospitals, sanatoriums bedroom, whichever is greater, with a
                                        minimum of 4.
Restaurants                             1 for each 4 seats provided for
                                        customer use, plus 1 per employee.
Retail stores either freestanding or in 1 for each 200 square feet of floor
a shopping center of less than 25,000   area (unless otherwise specifically
square feet                             mentioned herein).
                                        1 for each 200 square feet of gross
Rooming or boarding houses              floor area, or 1 per bedroom, whichever
                                        is greater, with a minimum of 4.
Schools:
Elementary or junior high               1 for each classroom and 2 for each
                                        office, with a minimum of 4.
                                        A maximum combination of 2 for each
Other schools                           classroom, plus 1 for each 5 auditorium
                                        seats, with a minimum of 4.
Businesses which lack front or side setbacks are exempted from having any
required parking spaces.
 
(2010 Code § 22-30; amd. 2012 Code)
D.   Development And Use Of Parking Spaces: The development and maintenance of
the premises for the parking of motor vehicles shall be in compliance with the
following:
   1.   Parking spaces, as regulated herein, shall not be reduced in number or
size.
   2.   In all off street parking areas containing more than three (3) parking
spaces, ingress and egress shall be provided in a manner that will prevent
vehicles from backing directly into the traffic lanes of any highway or major
arterial.
   3.   Parking places shall be surfaced in accordance with specifications
approved by the city commission to prevent the raising of dust.
   4.   All lights used to illuminate such parking spaces shall be installed to
prevent glare into abutting property.
   5.   Required parking spaces for property used for residential purposes
shall be located on the same lot as the principal building, or upon an
adjoining lot. Required parking places for property other than that used for
residential purposes shall be located on the same lot as the principal building
or on an adjoining lot, except that if insufficient space exists on the same
adjoining lot, all or any part of the required parking spaces may be located in
any area which permits parking, within three hundred feet (300') of the
principal building, measured along the line of public access from the nearest
boundary of the parking area to the principal building entrance without
crossing an arterial street; provided, that the location and plan of operation
of said parking area shall be approved by the governing body after due hearing;
and provided, further, that a copy of such approval, together with any
conditions or limitations attached thereto, shall be recorded with the county
register of deeds, and shall constitute a covenant running with the land as
long as the uses of the premises require parking. For the purpose of this
section, lots separated only by an alley, easement or street, shall be
considered as adjoining lots.
   6.   Land designated as the required parking area shall be considered as
part of the site of the principal building and the certificate of occupancy for
any such principal building shall be valid only during such time as the
required number of parking spaces are provided in accordance with this section,
and where two (2) parking spaces are on adjoining or other lots other than the
one upon which the principal use is located, the certificate of occupancy shall
so state and shall be recorded in the office of the registrar of deeds of the
county.
   7.   Joint use of required parking space by nonconflicting uses is to be
encouraged and shall be permitted; provided, that the maximum parking demands
of joint uses occur at nonoverlapping times. Joint uses parking facilities may
carry a zoning designation of either principal use. (2010 Code § 22-31)
E.   Commercial And Public Parking Area Construction Standards:
   1.   Paving: All commercial and public use of off street parking areas,
aisles and access driveways shall be permanently paved with hard surfaced
pavement. The requirement of hard surfaced access driveways may be waived by
the city commission in areas not designated for development and in other areas
if it is determined that the public convenience, health or safety is not
affected. Otherwise, all portions of commercial and public use access driveways
on public rights of way connected to paved streets for which the grade has been
established must be permanently paved with hard surfaced pavement and comply
with all city codes relating to driveway construction. See paving
specifications for the city for details. "Permanent hard surfaced pavement"
shall mean a surface covering which shall meet or exceed the following minimum
standards:
      a.   Two inches (2") of hot asphaltic concrete on a four inch (4") base
of stabilized aggregate, or the equivalent thereto, which has been approved by
the city commission.
      b.   Four inches (4") of portland cement concrete on a two inch (2") sand
cushion base, or the equivalent thereto, which has been approved by the city
commission.
      c.   All portions of access driveways on public rights of way: six inches
(6") of portland cement concrete on a three inch (3") sand cushion, or the
equivalent thereto, which has been approved by the city commission.
   2.   Striping: Off street parking areas shall be designed to provide
systematic and orderly circulation, traffic separation devices, and parking
spaces in accordance with this section and with sound traffic engineering
practices.
      a.   No striping shall be required on lots having only single- family,
duplex, triplex or fourplex residential structures.
      b.   All off street parking spaces and means of ingress and egress
requiring striping shall be laid out on the parking surface with paint or
plastic striping which provide a permanent delineation between spaces, aisles,
and surrounding structures and land as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb82112e6611a4e902cbcf8785fdcf05504e9a34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1927.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb82112e6611a4e902cbcf8785fdcf05504e9a34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1929.png]
 
 
   3.   Separation From Public Right Of Way: All off street parking areas,
aisles and access driveways that abut public street rights of way shall have
concrete header curb, bumper or landscape timbers designed so that vehicles do
not overhang public rights of way or adjacent property.
   4.   Lighting: All lighting equipment used in illumination of off street
parking areas shall not create a nuisance or hazard for streets or adjoining
properties.
   5.   Clearance:
      a.   There shall be a minimum vertical clearance free of all obstructions
to a height of eight feet (8') for all portions of any off street parking
space, except when off street parking spaces are provided in a parking
structure, a residential garage or carport. No obstruction shall project into
this minimum clearance.
      b.   There shall be no obstruction within or near the bounds of any
required off street parking spaces which would interfere with the normal
availability and use thereof.
   6.   Handicapped Parking:
      a.   Parking spaces for vehicles with handicapped drivers shall be
provided in accordance with the following table. Said spaces shall be included
in the computation of required spaces as specified by this section.
HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES
Total Parking In Lot Required Number Of Handicapped Accessible Spaces
Total Parking In Lot Required Number Of Handicapped Accessible Spaces
Up to 25             1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2 percent of total
Over 1,000           20, plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      b.   Each and every required handicapped parking space shall be posted by
the display of a standard international handicapped wheelchair, symbol sign or
legend not less than twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") in size,
permanently mounted aboveground immediately in front of said spaces not more
than eight feet (8') from the parking surface to the bottom of the sign. (2010
Code § 22-32)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Intent Regarding Nonconforming Uses
10-9-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-9-3: Nonconforming Structures
10-9-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
10-9-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
10-9-6: Changes In Nonconformity
10-9-1: INTENT REGARDING NONCONFORMING USES:
Within the districts established by this title, or amendments that may later be
adopted, there exist lots, structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful before this title was passed, or as may hereinafter be amended, but
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this
title, or such future amendment. It is the intent of the city commission to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. Such uses are declared by this chapter to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the
intent of the city commission that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon,
expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or
uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. A nonconforming use of a
structure, land or structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of this title. (2010 Code § 22-33)
10-9-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which a lot exists of record at the effective date of the
adoption or amendment of this title which does not conform in size or area to
the provisions of this title, buildings for the uses permitted in such district
may be erected on such lot notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this title; provided, that such lot is in separate ownership and
not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. (2010 Code §
22-34)
10-9-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this title that could not be built under the terms of this title by reason
of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other characteristics
of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity; and
B.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than
ninety five percent (95%) in value, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (2010 Code § 22-35)
10-9-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title that would
not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, the lawful use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in the
district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building
which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any
land outside such building;
C.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming uses may not thereafter be resumed, except as provided in this
title;
D.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for twelve (12) consecutive months,
the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter
be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it
is located; and
E.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or intentional destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. (2010 Code § 22-36)
10-9-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title, lawful
uses of land exist that are no longer permissible under the terms of this
title, as enacted or amended, such uses may be continued so long as they remain
otherwise lawful, subject to the following: If any such nonconforming use of
land ceases for any reason for a period of more than twelve (12) months, any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this
title for the district in which such land is located. (2010 Code § 22-37)
10-9-6: CHANGES IN NONCONFORMITY:
A nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and land in combination,
shall not be changed to a different nonconforming use unless changed to a use
permitted in the district in which located; except that the board of adjustment
may permit a change to a different nonconforming use and such change shall be
construed as an abandonment of the former permitted nonconforming use. (2010
Code § 22-38)
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE HOMES, PARKS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: General Provisions
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Location Requirements
10-10-4: Freestanding Mobile Home Sites
10-10-5: Permit Required
10-10-6: Mobile Home Parks
10-10-7: Development Standards
10-10-8: Mobile Home Site Requirements
10-10-9: Attendant
10-10-10: Codes Applicable
10-10-11: Ordinances Applicable
10-10-12: Relief In Courts
10-10-13: Violation By Corporate Officers And Agents
10-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Mobile Home Parks Permitted: Upon compliance with the provisions as set
forth herein, a mobile home park will be allowed within the MHP district.
B.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish
and provide minimum acceptable standards, requirements and regulations for the
planned use, development and maintenance of mobile homes within the corporate
limits of the city, to include both freestanding mobile homes and those located
in mobile home parks, in the interest of the health, safety and general
welfare. The standards, requirements and regulations as herein provided are
intended to secure safety from fire, panic and other damages to public health
and safety, provide adequate light and air, decrease traffic congestion and its
accompanying hazards, and prevent undue concentration of population.
C.   Applicability: Except as hereinafter provided, no mobile home shall be
used or maintained, and no mobile home park or mobile home site shall be used,
maintained or developed, except in conformance with the standards of this
chapter. (2010 Code § 22-56)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions, unless the context otherwise requires, shall apply:
   DEVELOPER: Any person engaged in the development or planning of a mobile
home park.
   EXPANSION OF A MOBILE HOME PARK: Increasing either the total land area or
the total number of mobile homes or mobile home spaces or lots in a park.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME: Any mobile home not located in a mobile home park
or mobile home subdivision.
   HARD SURFACE: A road surfaced with concrete or asphalt and meeting
specifications and requirements established by the city of Perkins and being of
the following minimum thickness:
   A.   Concrete: Minimum of four inches (4") thick with a strength of three
thousand five hundred (3,500) psi.
   B.   Asphalt: Minimum of four inches (4") thick if without a base. Minimum
of two inches (2") thick if installed on a packed base in place.
   MOBILE HOME: A manufactured, detached structure which is originally
designed, constructed and used for long term occupancy as a complete single-
family dwelling, is mounted on a permanent chassis with wheels attached
thereto, and which is transportable in one or more sections at least eight feet
(8') in width and twenty eight feet (28') in length.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Land or property that is used or intended to be used or
rented for occupancy by mobile homes, including all necessary utilities,
streets and other common amenities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK SITE PLAN: A scale drawing prepared by a registered
architect, landscape architect, engineer or land surveyor which meets the
requirements of section
 10-10-6 of this chapter for a mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for construction and/or
operation of a mobile home park or a mobile home site.
   MOBILE HOME SITE: A plat, lot or tract of land designed to accommodate a
freestanding mobile home and containing a minimum area of seven thousand
(7,000) square feet.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plat, lot or tract of land within a mobile home park
designed to accommodate one mobile home, and containing a minimum area of five
thousand (5,000) square feet.
   PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit has been issued within the scope of
this chapter.
   STRUCTURAL ADDITION: Any roofed, canopied or enclosed porch, room or
structure used in connection with a mobile home; provided, the construction of
a concrete slab porch without a roof or wall shall not be a structural
addition. (2010 Code § 22-57)
10-10-3: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
A mobile home for living or sleeping purposes shall only be located, used, kept
and maintained within a mobile home park as duly permitted and provided for in
this chapter; provided a freestanding mobile home may be located on a mobile
home site that is in compliance with section
10-10-8 of this chapter and all of section
10-10-10 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 22-58)
10-10-4: FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME SITES:
Any mobile home existing within the corporate limits of the city on the
effective date hereof shall be subject to the following requirements:
A.   Any mobile home site permitted, allowed, authorized and maintained within
the corporate limits of the city prior to the effective date hereof and in
compliance with any laws hereby repealed or amended, may continue to be
maintained under the laws then in effect; provided, however, all mobile homes,
whether or not previously existing, shall be maintained in compliance with the
provisions of section
10-10-10 of this chapter.
B.   A mobile home site permitted under this section shall be deemed abandoned
if not used for a period of six (6) months after the effective date hereof, and
shall thereafter be required to comply with all of its provisions.
C.   Any person seeking to expand any mobile home site shall comply with all
the provisions of this chapter as they affect and pertain to that portion of
such mobile home site, or that tract of land, sought to be expanded upon. (2010
Code § 22-59)
10-10-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain or permit
to be established, operated or maintained upon any property controlled or owned
by him, a "mobile home park", as defined in section
10-10-2 of this chapter, without having first secured a permit therefor and
having paid the filing fee for inspection of the construction of such park.
(2010 Code § 22-60)
10-10-6: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
The following general provisions shall apply to mobile home parks:
A.   Site Plan; Application: Every person desiring to create, establish,
expand, develop or construct a mobile home park, shall submit a site plan
application on the forms supplied by the city. Such application shall include
the following:
   1.   A legal description of the site; (2010 Code § 22-61)
   2.   A filing fee as established by resolution of the city commission; and
(2010 Code § 22-61; amd. 2012 Code)
   3.   A site plan which shall include the following on a scaled drawing of
appropriate dimensions:
      a.   Written legal description of the site, including the size of the
property in acres, or a fraction thereof;
      b.   Approval by a registered engineer, architect or landscape surveyor
licensed in the state, so indicated by signature and seal;
      c.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend;
      d.   Two foot (2') contour intervals;
      e.   Location and size of all easements, utilities and rights of ways
existing and proposed;
      f.   All public and private streets, including paving type;
      g.   Location and size of all existing and proposed structures, including
mobile home spaces;
      h.   Location and size of open space or common areas;
      i.   Location and type of landscaping and ground cover;
      j.   Location and type of material in fences and other screening;
      k.   Language with signature blocks to indicate the approval of the
owners of the land and the city for recording purposes; and
      l.   A scale drawing of appropriate dimension of a typical mobile home
space, which shows the location and size of all existing permanent
improvements, including pads, off street parking with surface types, utility
connections and all front, side and rear yard setback distances.
B.   Alterations, Amendments Of Plan: The city may require certain alterations,
modifications or amendments of the mobile home park site plan when deemed
necessary for the inclusion of easements, rights of way and utilities, etc.
Improvement bonds may also be required for public utilities on the subject
property for fire hydrants, water lines, sewer lines, drainage structures and
other similar projects.
C.   Administrative Staff Review: The site plan shall be reviewed by the
administrative staff of the city for compliance with this chapter and other
relevant provisions of this code. The findings and recommendations of
administrative staff shall then be reported to the governing body.
D.   Decision Of City: The city shall approve, approve conditionally or return
for further study, or disapprove the site plan. Approval of the site plan shall
be documented by the signatures of the presiding officers of the city, and
acceptance by signature of the owner on the certificate located on the original
of the site plan. A reproducible copy of the site plan, with all required
signatures, shall be furnished to the city at the applicant's expense.
E.   Occupancy Permits: Occupancy permits for the mobile home park will be
issued only after inspection by the city and only if the mobile home park has
been developed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
approved site plan.
F.   Register Of Occupants: It shall be the responsibility of every person
owning a mobile home park to maintain a current register of the names of all
mobile home owners within such mobile home park and the date every mobile home
was brought within such mobile home park. For reasonable cause, such register
shall be available during normal working hours for inspection by the city.
G.   Prohibited Location: A mobile home shall not be allowed, permitted or
authorized in any street or public right of way. (2010 Code § 22-61)
10-10-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development of mobile home parks shall be in accordance with the following
standards:
A.   Dimensional And Site Development Requirements: The minimum lot size for a
mobile home park shall be ninety thousand (90,000) contiguous square feet. Open
space, streets and drainage of the mobile home park shall meet the requirements
stated below:
   1.   No less than ten percent (10%) nor more than one acre of a mobile home
park, exclusive of easements, rights of way, setbacks or shelters, shall be
required to be designated, preserved and set apart for common facilities, open
space and recreation. Where possible, this open space or recreation area should
be consolidated to provide a meaningful recreation area.
   2.   A convenient circulation system for vehicular movement shall be
provided within a mobile home park by means of minor streets and properly
located collector streets. Collector streets shall be hard surfaced for a
minimum width of twenty nine feet (29'). All public streets abutting a mobile
home park shall meet the requirements set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of this
code. All other streets and drives shall be hard surfaced for a minimum width
of twenty feet (20').
   3.   Private streets and drives:
      a.   May provide parallel parking on one side, provided an additional
eight feet (8') of width is hard surfaced;
      b.   May be one-way only when less than five hundred feet (500') long,
serving less than twenty five (25) mobile home spaces, and a minimum of sixteen
feet (16') wide; and
      c.   Dead end streets shall have a cul-de-sac with a diameter of no less
than eighty feet (80').
   4.   The drainage system of all lots shall be designed in accordance with
all relevant provisions of this code to minimize the possibilities of soil
erosion, sedimentation and increased runoff, which might cause flooding of
downstream properties. Adequate easements shall be provided to protect
drainageways from encroachment, and to protect property from drainage by
periodic flooding. Excavation of topographic area having a grade of more than
ten percent (10%) shall be prohibited unless it is determined that adequate
provisions to control erosion that may result from such excavation are
guaranteed. Alternatives to sodding or seeding may be considered when said
alternative method is intended to accomplish the limiting of dust, erosion and
sedimentation of drainage areas.
B.   Individual Lot Requirements: Each mobile home space shall satisfy all of
the following requirements:
   1.   It shall have a hard surfaced entry area.
   2.   It shall have two (2) hard surfaced off street parking spaces no less
than eighteen feet (18') in width by twenty feet (20').
   3.   It shall have a visible identifying number.
   4.   It shall provide setbacks as set forth in subsection
10-10-108B of this chapter.
   5.   No mobile home, mobile home addition, storage building or related
structure or appurtenance shall be located, constructed or maintained within
any street, dedicated easement, right of way or drainage area.
C.   Sanitation: A mobile home that does not have a built in bathroom with
water closet, lavatory and shower or tub in working condition shall not be
maintained, authorized, permitted nor occupied in a mobile home park.
D.   Utilities: Utility service shall be provided in a safe and reliable manner
in accordance with the following specifications:
   1.   All plumbing and electrical systems, connections, installations,
fixtures and equipment shall be installed and maintained in full compliance
with those applicable provisions of this section and this code.
   2.   An adequate supply of safe water of satisfactory quality, under
sufficient pressure, shall be provided to and for all mobile homes and utility
buildings. Water connections shall be made to the city water distribution
system where feasible, and when not feasible, to a water system that is
maintained in accordance with the standards, regulations and laws of the state
relating thereto. Adequate fire hydrant facilities with the required fire flow
shall be specified and approved by the city for each mobile home park.
   3.   An approved sewer disposal system, being adequate and safe, shall be
provided for each mobile home and community structure having plumbing fixtures
therein. A sewer connection shall be made to the city sanitary sewer where
feasible, and where not feasible, to a sewer system that is constructed or
maintained in accordance with the standards, regulations and laws of the state
relating thereto.
   4.   The design of the electrical system shall meet the criteria of the
utility company furnishing service.
   5.   All interior private streets, drives and pedestrian walkways within a
mobile home park shall be lighted at night with light equivalent to sixty (60)
watts at intervals of two hundred feet (200').
   6.   Methods and facilities for the collection, storage, handling and
disposal of garbage and refuse shall be provided for as determined and in
accordance with this code.
E.   Community Fuel Supply And Storage: The installation, use and storage of
gas shall be in accordance with the following requirements:
   1.   A gas piping system, if installed and maintained in accordance with all
pertinent provisions of this section, the city fire prevention code, and the
laws of the state relating to plumbing, so as to provide a supply of gas
sufficient to meet the maximum demand without undue loss of pressure at the
connection point to the mobile home furthest from the source of supply. All gas
piping shall be installed by a licensed contractor only.
   2.   The gas supply shall be connected in the proper manner, ensuring that
the piping is properly purged and free from leaks, and that all appliances are
suitable for the supply.
   3.   Before a mobile home is moved, adequate arrangements shall be made to
assure that all gas connections are properly disconnected.
   4.   If liquefied petroleum gas is to be used, its installation and storage
shall be in strict compliance with all applicable provisions of the city fire
prevention code, the statutes of the state and the following provisions:
      a.   Any filling plant may be located in a mobile home park; provided the
entire operation of the filling plant, including storage container, shall not
be located within fifty feet (50') from a mobile home or building, or the line
of adjoining property, and shall not be within twenty five feet (25') from any
public street or thoroughfare; provided, further, the same shall be enclosed by
industrial type fencing six feet (6') in height, or an equivalent enclosure
kept securely locked when unattended.
      b.   Containers at the mobile home may be filled at each location by a
tank truck. When containers are accumulated at the tank truck for charging, the
charging shall not be done within twenty five feet (25') of any public street
or thoroughfare. No vapor or liquid shall be vented to the atmosphere during
the filling operation, and all filling or charging shall only be performed by a
qualified person.
F.   Service Administrative And Other Buildings: Buildings maintained and
intended for uses other than a dwelling shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   One mobile home may be used as an administrative office. Other
administrative offices and service buildings for housing sanitation, laundry or
other facilities shall be of permanent structure, complying with all pertinent
provisions of this code relating to construction and maintenance, for the use
of all park residents.
   2.   All service buildings shall be adequately lighted at all times, well
ventilated with screen openings, and constructed of such moistureproof
material, including painted woodwork to permit repeated cleaning and washing,
and shall be provided with space heating equipment adequate to maintain sixty
eight degrees Fahrenheit (68oF) temperature at outside design conditions.
   3.   All service buildings and grounds of a mobile home park shall be
maintained in a clean and sightly condition, free from any condition that will
menace the health of any mobile home park resident therein, or otherwise
constitute a nuisance.
G.   Fire Protection: No tow car or mobile home shall be parked, placed or
allowed to remain at any time on a public or private street, or pedestrian
walkway within a mobile home park. Fire hydrants located no greater than six
hundred feet (600') apart, as measured by street travel requiring the
inspection and approval of the fire chief, and water mains, both of adequate
size and number, shall be provided for the protection of the mobile home park.
H.   Tie Downs: It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any
mobile home to cause such mobile home to be anchored and tied down securely in
accordance with the following minimal standards within a period of no longer
than thirty (30) days after moving a mobile home into a mobile home park:
   1.   A mobile home of fifty feet (50') or less in length shall be provided
two (2) over the home ties, each to be as close to each end of said home as
possible with the straps at the stud and rafter point.
   2.   A mobile home of greater than fifty feet (50'), but less than or equal
to seventy feet (70') in length shall be provided with two (2) over the home
ties, each to be as close to each end of said home as possible, and two (2)
frame ties at the center of said home.
   3.   A mobile home greater than seventy feet (70') in length shall be
provided with two (2) over the home ties, each as close to the end of said home
as possible, and four (4) frame ties spaced along the center of said home.
   4.   Doublewide mobile homes need not be provided with over the home ties.
Frame ties shall be provided with at least four (4) required for doublewide
mobile homes less than fifty feet (50') in length; at least six (6) required
for doublewide mobile homes greater than fifty feet (50') but less than or
equal to seventy feet (70') in length; and at least eight (8) required for
mobile homes greater than seventy feet (70') in length.
   5.   Tie down anchors shall be securely installed in soil providing a stable
foundation to withstand a minimum pull of three thousand seven hundred fifty
(3,750) pounds for each ten feet (10') of a mobile home.
   6.   All ties and connectors shall be of a type approved by the United
States department of housing and urban development (HUD) for mobile home
anchoring.
   7.   All piers shall be of standard concrete block construction, eight
inches by sixteen inches (8" x 16"), spaced at no more than ten foot (10')
intervals and no further than five feet (5') from the ends of a mobile home.
Piers shall rest on solid concrete blocks or pads of concrete measuring no less
than eight inches by sixteen inches by four inches (8" x 16" x 4") forming a
base sixteen inches (16") square. For leveling purposes, wood blocking no less
than the nominal dimensions of eight inches by sixteen inches (8" x 16"), with
a maximum thickness of four inches (4") can be used.
I.   Skirting: It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any
mobile home, within a period of no longer than thirty (30) days after moving
such mobile home into a mobile home park, to cause such mobile home to be
totally skirted of metal or other nondegradable solid material. The skirting
shall be secured to the mobile home and to the ground in a manner that will
prevent the intrusion of animals and will reduce the hazards of strong winds
under said home. (2010 Code § 22-62)
10-10-8: MOBILE HOME SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following general provisions shall apply to freestanding mobile homes:
A.   Every person desiring to expand an existing mobile home site shall submit
a site plan which includes the following:
   1.   A legal description of the property.
   2.   A scaled drawing of appropriate dimensions, which includes the
following:
      a.   Written legal description of the site, including the size of the
site in square feet or in acres.
      b.   Location of the site on the property.
      c.   Location and size of existing and other proposed structures on the
property.
      d.   Location and size at all easements, utilities and rights of way,
existing and proposed.
      e.   A north arrow, date, scale and appropriate legend.
B.   Each mobile home site shall satisfy all of the following requirements:
   1.   It shall have a hard surfaced entry area.
   2.   It shall have at least two (2) hard surfaced off street parking spaces,
together measuring no less than eighteen feet (18') wide and twenty feet (20')
long.
   3.   The mobile home shall be not less than twenty feet (20') from any other
mobile home or permanent building, including any structural additions thereto.
   4.   The mobile home shall be not less than the setback distance of twenty
feet (20') from the front yard line, and twenty feet (20') for the rear and any
exterior property line, easement or right of way, and ten feet (10') from the
side yard lines.
   5.   Connections to utilities shall adhere to the provisions contained in
section
10-10-10 of this chapter.
   6.   The site shall be arranged so that it abuts on a driveway or street of
at least sixteen feet (16') in width, giving access directly from a public
street. All driveways and roads shall be graded so as to have natural drainage
and shall be well lighted at night and unobstructed. (Ord. 444, 10-11-2016)
10-10-9: ATTENDANT:
A.   In every mobile home park there shall be a building in which shall be
located the office of the person in charge of the park. A copy of the city
permit issued by the city, together with a copy of this chapter pertaining
thereto, and a plan of the area involved, shall be posted for public view. The
register shall be kept at all times in said office and subject to inspection by
city authorities at all times.
B.   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge and the
permittee of said park to:
   1.   Keep a register at all times of all guests, showing:
      a.   Name of the person owning the mobile home;
      b.   A license number, together with the name of car license number,
together with the name of the state where such license was issued;
      c.   Date of entrance into the park;
      d.   Number of people residing in the mobile home and their names.
   2.   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times.
   3.   Assure that the provisions of this chapter are complied with by the
occupants of the park and report promptly to city authorities violations of
this or other ordinances. (2010 Code § 22-64)
10-10-10: CODES APPLICABLE:
A.   All plumbing, electrical, building and other work on any park permitted
under this chapter shall be performed in accordance with the ordinances of the
city regulating the same, unless said ordinances are specifically made
inapplicable under the terms thereof or under the terms of this chapter. Only a
person who is properly licensed under the provisions of this chapter may
connect and disconnect water, gas and sewage facilities to mobile homes located
in any park operated under the provisions of this chapter.
B.   Sewer connection inspection fees for mobile home parks shall be those
applicable to family dwellings, and each site within the park shall be deemed a
family living unit. The monthly sewer service charge for mobile home parks
shall be that applicable to multi-family dwellings. (2010 Code § 22-65)
10-10-11: ORDINANCES APPLICABLE:
All ordinances enacted by the city pertaining to traffic and vehicles, and the
control of pets and/or animals, shall be fully as effective within the park as
though the streets and driveways were dedicated to public use, and the consent
and agreement of the owner of said park, streets and highways thereto shall be
a condition precedent to the issuance of said permit. (2010 Code § 22-66)
10-10-12: RELIEF IN COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus and injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation. (2010 Code § 22-67)
10-10-13: VIOLATION BY CORPORATE OFFICERS AND AGENTS:
Violation of any of the terms or provision of this chapter by any corporation
or association shall subject the officers and agents actively in charge of the
business of such corporation or association to the penalty provided in this
code. (2010 Code § 22-68)
CHAPTER 11
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Defined
10-11-2: Purpose
10-11-3: Special Requirements; Termination
10-11-4: Restrictions
10-11-5: Area, Height And Setback
10-11-6: Surface Of Parking And Driveway Areas
10-11-7: Procedures
10-11-1: DEFINED:
A "home occupation" is any occupation or profession carried on by the
inhabitants, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof,
and which is conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; there
is no outside display of merchandise or sign, other than one nonilluminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building and no mechanical equipment is used or activity is conducted
which creates any noise, dust, odor or electrical disturbance beyond the
confines of the lot on which said occupation is conducted. The conducting of a
tearoom or restaurant, rest home, clinic, doctor or dentist office, childcare
center for more than five (5) children, tourist home or cabinet, metal or auto
repair shop, shall not be deemed a home occupation. (2010 Code § 22-105)
10-11-2: PURPOSE:
Home occupations shall be permitted in any residential zone. It is the purpose
and intent of these regulations to allow on review only those types of
businesses which can be operated in a residential district without
substantially interfering with the intent of the residential zoning. The
permitted use shall not change the character of the property. The intent is to
further discourage commercial spot zoning. Any business creating traffic, noise
or other disturbance not normal to the neighboring residential districts will
not be allowed. (2010 Code § 22-105)
10-11-3: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; TERMINATION:
The planning commission and city commission may provide for any specific
condition or requirement deemed necessary to further the purpose of the home
occupation. In the event the home occupation is granted, such use shall be
terminated in the event:
A.   Ownership of the property changes;
B.   The nature of home occupation changes from that which was reviewed;
C.   The home occupation lapses for a period of ninety (90) days;
D.   Reviewed conditions and agreements are not followed. (2010 Code § 22-105)
10-11-4: RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Existing Landowner: The approval of a specific use permit for a home
occupation is intended to be for the existing landowner only.
B.   Transfer Of Ownership: Any transfer of ownership after the home occupation
is approved nullifies the particular approved use. (2010 Code § 22-105; amd.
Ord. 500, 6-11-2024)
10-11-5: AREA, HEIGHT AND SETBACK:
The area, height and setback requirements shall be the same as the residential
zone in which the permitted use is located. (2010 Code § 22-105; amd. 2012
Code)
10-11-6: SURFACE OF PARKING AND DRIVEWAY AREAS:
A.   Surfacing Requirements: All of the property used for parking of vehicles
and all driveways used for vehicle ingress and egress shall be hard surfaced,
paved with asphalt or concrete, meet the minimum regulations set forth in this
section and be properly maintained.
B.   Special Driveway Regulations:
   1.   The subgrade for driveway entrances shall be of suitable soil, free of
vegetation, trash or other foreign matter, and compacted to one hundred percent
(100%) standard proctor density.
   2.   Driveways shall be at least curb height at a point six feet (6') from
the back of the curb.
   3.   Driveways installed on streets that do not have curb/gutter must have
the culvert size approved by the city engineer as part of the plan review
process. The grade of the driveway shall be at least equal to the elevation of
the crown of the street at a point six feet (6') from the center of the
culvert.
   4.   All saw cut joints for driveways shall have a depth of at least one
inch (1") and a width of at least one-eighth inch (1/8"). All expansion joints
shall have a width of at least one-half inch (1/2"), and the material used to
fill this type of joint shall be made of either redwood, cedar or premolded
asphalt. All joints shall be cleaned in accordance with standard city street
specifications. An expansion joint must be located at the property line and
along the line where the driveway meets the street paving.
   5.   The permit holder under this section shall be required to pay the cost
of all testing of a driveway that may be deemed necessary by the city inspector
or engineer. Such tests may include, but are not limited to, soil density,
compressive concrete strength, and core samples.
   6.   The permit holder under this section shall be responsible for the
replacement of all defective work and materials not approved by the city
inspector, and shall be liable for any damage to existing city streets that is
not repaired in a manner suitable to the city.
   7.   The driveway of any duplex that has a common driveway for both dwelling
units shall have a minimum width of thirty six feet (36'). If each of the two
(2) dwelling units in a duplex has a separate driveway, then each driveway
shall be at least eighteen feet (18') wide. The separate driveways shall have a
landscaped area between them, and this area shall be at least four feet (4')
wide and be landscaped.
   8.   The entire length of the primary driveway for any single- family
residence must have a minimum width of eighteen feet (18'). Secondary driveways
may be as narrow as ten feet (10'). (Ord. 428, 2-10-2015)
10-11-7: PROCEDURES:
The procedure as provided in section
10-7C-3 , “Specific Use Permit,” of this title shall be followed in providing
for home occupations. (2010 Code § 22-105; amd. Ord. 500, 6-11-2024)
CHAPTER 12
LAND SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Jurisdiction
10-12-3: Definitions
10-12-4: General Procedure
10-12-5: Preliminary Plat
10-12-6: Final Plat
10-12-7: Urban Design Principles
10-12-8: Subdivision Design Standards
10-12-9: Design And Installation Of Improvements
10-12-10: Plan Preparation
10-12-11: Performance Guarantee
10-12-12: Permanent Reference Markers
10-12-13: Street Improvements
10-12-14: Sidewalks
10-12-15: Water Lines
10-12-16: Sanitary Sewers
10-12-17: Storm Sewers And Drainage
10-12-18: Flood Prevention; Maintenance, Supervision
10-12-19: As Built Plans
10-12-20: Variations And Exceptions
10-12-21: Violation
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
A.   The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential,
commercial and industrial uses, and for streets, alleys, schools, parks and
other public purposes, will determine, to a large degree, the conditions of
health, safety, economy and amenity that prevail in the urban area. The quality
of these conditions is of public interest. These regulations and standards for
the subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to make provision for
adequate light, air, open spaces, drainage, transportation, public utilities
and other needs, to ensure the development and maintenance of a healthy,
attractive and efficient community that provides for the conservation and
protection of its human and natural resources.
B.   These regulations are designed, intended and should be administrated in a
manner to:
   1.   Implement the general plan;
   2.   Provide neighborhood conversation and prevent the development of slums
and blight;
   3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
   4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the tract
of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the tract, and
that the cost of improvement which primarily benefit the whole community be
borne by the whole community;
   5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract;
   6.   Reconcile any differences or interest; and
   7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (2010 Code
§ 22-69)
10-12-2: JURISDICTION:
These regulations and development standards shall apply to all subdivisions of
land, as defined in section
10-12-3 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 2-70)
10-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
   ALLEY: A minor right of way, dedicated to public use, which gives a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad right of way, public
walk, parks or green strips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside
of which building may not be erected.
   CITY COMMISSION: The city commission of the city of Perkins, Oklahoma.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   FRONTAGE STREET: A minor street auxiliary to and located on the side of a
major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas and for
control of access.
   GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive development plan for the city, which has
been officially adopted to provide long range development policies for the area
subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes, among
other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision, circulation and
community facilities.
   LOT: Any plot or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one
building or structure, and the accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to it, including such open spaces as are arranged and designated to
be used in connection with such buildings, and further intended as a unit of
land for the transfer of ownership or development.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which abuts two (2) or more streets.
   LOT, SPLIT: A subordinate and integral part of any lot and which plot or
parcel of land is not capable of supporting or having a building constructed
upon it.
   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS: A subdivision, resubdivision, alteration, reorganization
or division of land, which shall contain not more than three (3) lots and
further, shall not adversely affect the development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property, and shall not be in conflict with any provision
or portion of the master plan, official map or this title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Perkins.
   PLAT, FINAL: A map or land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of proposed land subdivision showing the character
and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and having one end closed and terminated by a turnaround.
   STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the major street
plan.
   STREET, MINOR: Any street not classified as a major street on the major
street plan.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity,
acting as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION: Any division of land into two (2) or more lots, parcels, tracts
or areas, any one of which, when divided, has an area of ten (10) acres or
less, or any division of land involving the vacation or dedication of right-of-
way or alignment of an existing or proposed street or highway, or any public
utility easement, or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided into lots,
sites or parcels. (2010 Code § 22-71)
10-12-4: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
A.   Plat Approval:
   1.   For all cases of subdividing, except as provided herein, a plat of land
in question shall be drawn and submitted to the Planning Commission and City
Commission for their approval or disapproval, as provided below.
   2.   For cases of lot splits, the applicant shall submit at the time of
application a drawing of the intended division. The required drawing shall be
prepared by a registered land surveyor showing the existing lot lines and the
proposed lot lines, as well as all existing structures, improvements, utilities
and appurtenances, as identifiable, thereto. Included in the deeds shall be
private utility easements. The following criteria shall be met to be a lot
split:
      a.   A lot may only be split one time;
      b.   The lot to be split shall have no structures, utilities or other
improvements upon it;
      c.   Only previously platted property may be considered for lot splits.
   3.   For cases of minor subdivisions, the applicant shall submit, at the
time of application, a certified survey showing all existing improvements,
utilities and appurtenances, as identified, thereto. Such certified survey,
prepared by a registered land surveyor, shall be used to illustrate and explain
the proposed minor subdivision design.
   4.   For cases of commercial minor subdivisions, in addition to the other
requirements, the plan shall include:
      a.   Certified survey;
      b.   Zoning designation;
      c.   Identification of surveyor with contact information;
      d.   Accurate depiction of the extent of the division, including the
boundary of the proposed division.
   5.   Minor subdivisions, commercial minor subdivisions and lot splits may be
approved administratively by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
B.   Official Recording: No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be
filed in the Office of the County Clerk until it shall have been approved by
the Planning Commission and by the City Commission as hereinafter set forth.
All final plats shall be filed within two (2) years of the date of approval by
the Planning Commission, and no lots shall be sold from any plat until
recorded. Failure to record the plat within two (2) years of the date of
Planning Commission or City Commission approval, whichever is the later, shall
void all approvals thereto, unless extended by the Planning Commission and City
Commission upon application prior to the expiration date.
C.   Agenda: Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be
placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission, only after fulfilling the
appropriate requirements of these regulations. However, a plat not meeting all
of the requirements may be submitted, provided the subdivider presents with the
plat a written request for specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the
reasons therefor. (2010 Code § 22-72)
D.   Fees To Defray Costs Of Administration, Engineer Review, And Attorney
Review:
   1.   Preliminary Plat: At the time of filing a preliminary plat with the
City of Perkins, Oklahoma, the developer shall submit all required documents
and materials together with a fee as set by resolution to cover administrative
costs. For the purposes of computing preliminary plat fees, each phase of a
multi-phase subdivision submitted for preliminary plat approval shall be
considered a separate subdivision unless multiple phases are included in the
same preliminary plat.
   2.   Final Plat: At the time of filing a final plat with the City of
Perkins, Oklahoma, the developer shall submit all required documents and
materials together with a fee as set by resolution to cover administrative
costs. For the purposes of computing final plat fees, each phase of a multi-
phase subdivision submitted for final plat approval shall be considered a
separate subdivision unless multiple phases are included in the same final
plat.
   3.   Initial Plat Review And Comment: The City of Perkins, Oklahoma, shall
be responsible for the initial plat engineering and/or legal review and comment
and a secondary engineering and/or legal review and comment. The actual cost of
any subsequent engineering and/or legal review(s) shall be borne by the
developer, whether said reviews are contracted by the Municipality or performed
by City personnel. (Ord. 468, 9-11-2018)
E.   Exemption: In cases of minor subdivisions, the Planning Commission may
waive any or all of the subdivision requirements as contained in this chapter
as it may deem necessary to avoid substantial hardship or inequity; provided,
further, that such waiver may be granted only upon receiving a written request
from the subdivider stating the reasons for each waiver and may only be waived
by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the regular membership of the planning
commission. (2010 Code § 22-72)
10-12-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A.   General: The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for submission to
the planning commission. Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the office of the city clerk not less than seven (7) days prior to
the meeting at which it is to be considered.
B.   Certification Of Design: The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a
statement signed by the registered engineer preparing the plat that he has, to
the best of his ability, designed the subdivision in accordance with the
general plan, with which he is completely familiar, and in accordance with the
ordinances and regulations governing the subdivision of land, except where an
exception is requested in writing and the reasons of which are clearly stated.
C.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a
scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall contain or be
accompanied by the following information:
   1.   The scale, north point and date.
   2.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
   3.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and of the
registered engineer preparing the plat.
   4.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision referenced
to existing or proposed major streets and to government section lines, and
including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of which the
proposed subdivision is a part.
   5.   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, of adjoining
subdivisions, and the location of any city limits if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract.
   6.   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
(2') referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey bench mark or monument.
   7.   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they join and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision; provided, however that actual measured
distances shall not be required.
   8.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements and
setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions.
   9.   The location, size and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent to the
proposed subdivision; and the location, layout type and proposed size of the
following structures and utilities:
      a.   Water mains.
      b.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and lateral.
      c.   Storm sewers, culverts and drainage structures.
   10.   Street improvements. The location of all drainage channels and
subsurface drainage structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all
runoff from the proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage
easements relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the
proposed plat.
   11.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street within or
adjacent to the proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate
term, primary thoroughfare, secondary thoroughfare, collector or minor in
parentheses, directly on each street.
D.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall approve, approve
conditionally, or disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its
submission by the applicant. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved
conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy
of which shall be signed by the planning commission chairperson and shall be
attached to one copy of the plat and transmitted to the subdivider. Unless
stipulation for additional time is agreed to by subdivider, if no action is
taken by the planning commission at the end of sixty (60) days after
submission, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved. The reasons for
disapproval or conditional approval shall refer specifically to those parts of
the general plan or specific regulations with which the plat does not conform.
On conditionally approving a plat, the planning commission may require
submission of a revised preliminary plat. If the plat conforms to all of the
standards, or after the applicant and planning commission agree upon any
revision which shall be filed with the planning commission on a revised copy,
the subdivider may proceed with the laying out of streets and roads, the
preparation of utility plans and with the preparation of a final plat. (2010
Code § 22-86)
10-12-6: FINAL PLAT:
A.   General: A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth, and three (3)
dark line prints thereof, shall be submitted to the office of the city clerk
not less than five (5) days before the planning commission meeting at which it
is to be considered for final approval. At the same time, there shall be
submitted two (2) sets of the proposed plans and specifications for all
improvements and the proposed restrictions in final form; provided, however,
the final plat may be approved subject to later submission of final improvement
plans and specifications.
B.   Time Of Submission: The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be
submitted to the planning commission and city commission for final approval
within one year of the date on which the preliminary plan was approved. If not
submitted for final approval within such time, the preliminary plan shall be
considered as having been disapproved, unless the planning commission agrees to
an extension of time. The final plat shall be filed in the office of the county
clerk within two (2) years after approval by the city commission and planning
commission, whichever is later, or, if not filed within such time, said
approval shall be considered as having been voided, unless extended by the
planning commission and city commission upon application prior to expiration.
C.   Drafting: The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets whose dimensions
are twenty one inches by thirty three and one-half inches (21" x 331/2")
between border lines. On the first sheets of every plat, there shall be a key
map showing the location of the subdivision referenced to government survey
section lines and major streets. If more than two (2) sheets are required for
the plat, the key map shall show the number of the sheet for each area. A
border of one-half inch (1/2") surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at the
top, bottom and right hand side, and a margin of two inches (2") at the left
side for binding purposes.
D.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall show:
   1.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced.
   2.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereinafter specified.
   3.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided, fully dimensioned by
length and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names.
   4.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
   5.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction of
an alley is not readily discernible from date given for plat and block lines,
the length and/or being shall be given.
   6.   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets,
alleys and easements which shall properly be located.
   7.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted.
   8.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to public
use fully dimensioned by the lengths and bearings, with the area marked
"public".
   9.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision and
the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part".
   10.   The location of all easements for drainage, with dimensions showing
their locations.
   11.   The grades of all streets.
   12.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersections, and
central and angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property return.
   13.   The proper acknowledgment of owners and the consent by the mortgagee
to plat restrictions.
   14.   The following, which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
      a.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed.
      b.   Engineer's certificate of survey, signed, and his seal.
      c.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to the
public.
      d.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds which directly
affect the land being subdivided.
      e.   Certificates of planning commission approval.
      f.   Certificates of city commission acceptance of ways, easements and
public land dedications.
      g.   Treasurer's certificates.
   15.   A title, which shall include:
      a.   Name of subdivision.
      b.   Name of city, county and state.
      c.   Location and description of the subdivision reference to section,
range and township.
E.   Planning Commission Action:
   1.   The planning commission shall act upon the final plat within forty five
(45) days after it has been submitted for final approval. This approval and the
date thereof shall be shown on the plat over the signature of the planning
commission chairperson. Unless stipulation for additional time is agreed to by
the subdivider and if no action is taken by the planning commission at the end
of forty five (45) days after submission, the plat shall be deemed to have been
approved. A certificate by the city clerk as to date of submission of plat for
final approval and failure of planning commission to act thereon within such
time shall be sufficient in lieu of written endorsement of approval.
   2.   If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the tracing and
prints to the applicant. The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically
to those parts of the general plan or ordinance with which the plat does not
comply.
F.   City Commission Action: Before recording the final plat, it shall be
submitted to the city commission for approval and for acceptance of the public
ways and service and utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This
approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and
attested to by the city clerk or his deputy. The disapproval of any plat or
plan by the city commission shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed
dedication shown thereon.
G.   Recording Of Plat: After final approval of the plat and the affixing of
all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide
the planning commission with two (2) dark line prints thereof, and one contact
reproducible cloth tracing, said tracing to be filed with the city clerk. One
dark line print shall be retained in the permanent files of the planning
commission, and one shall be sent to the office of the city clerk. The
applicant shall file the original tracing, one dark line print on cloth, and
one contact reproducible cloth tracing or film with the county clerk. (2010
Code § 22-87)
10-12-7: URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of design
of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design requires
the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of land within
the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the principles established by the general plan for land use,
circulation, community facilities and public utility service, and in accordance
with the following general principles:
A.   It is intended that the urban area shall be designed as a group of
integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial and industrial
and public facilities. The neighborhood, as a planning unit, is intended as an
area principally for residential use, and of a size that can be served by one
elementary school. Space for religious, recreational, educational and shopping
facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be provided and
designed as an integral part of each neighborhood.
B.   The size of lots and blocks and other areas for residential, commercial,
industrial and public uses should be designed to provide adequate light, air,
open space, landscaping and off street parking and loading facilities.
C.   The arrangement of lots and blocks and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved. The
system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to take
advantage of the visual qualities of the area.
D.   Circulation within the urban area shall be provided in accordance with the
following design criteria:
   1.   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all arterial
streets and highways as shown on the major street plan as and when adopted.
Arterial streets should be located on the perimeter of the residential
neighborhood.
   2.   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel of
land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in a
manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that further urban expansion will not require the conversion of minor streets
to arterial routes.
   3.   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street and expressway system provided only on
minor streets.
   4.   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided only on
minor streets.
   5.   Pedestrianways should be separate from roadways used by vehicular
traffic. Sidewalks should be designed to provide all residential building sites
with direct access to all neighborhood facilities, including the elementary
school, parks and playgrounds, churches and shopping centers.
E.   Minimum standards for development are contained in these regulations.
However, the general plan expresses policies designed to achieve an optimum
quality of development in the urban area if only the minimum standards are
followed, as expressed by the various ordinances regulating land development, a
standardization of the design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose
and spirit of the policies expressed in the general plan and in these
regulations rather than be limited to the minimum standards required herein.
(2010 Code § 22-73)
10-12-8: SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS:
A.   Streets: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall conform to all of the elements of the general plan and shall
be designed in accordance with the following provisions:
   1.   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned or
intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the undivided portion shall be prepared and submitted
by the subdivider.
   2.   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and opening or future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with
provisions for adequate utility easements and connections for such
resubdivision.
   3.   Street jogs and centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty five
feet (125') should be avoided.
   4.   Streets shall intersect at approximately right angles.
   5.   Street right of way widths shall be in accordance with the major street
plan; and, where not designated therein, shall be not less than the following:
MAJOR STREETS
 
Primary with median    120 feet
Primary without median 100 feet
Secondary              80 feet
 
MINOR STREETS
 
Collector  70 feet
Minor      60 feet
Cul-de-sac 60 feet
 
Provided, however, the width of such minor street or cul-de-sac may be reduced
to a minimum of fifty feet (50'), if adequate provisions are made for drainage
and installation of public utilities, and if grade elevations are not too steep
to allow proper installation of driveways.
   6.   The grades of all streets shall not exceed the following, except where
usual topographic conditions justify in the opinion of the planning commission,
a modification of these standards:
MAJOR STREETS
 
Primary  5 percent
Standard 7 percent
 
Minor streets: No street grade shall be less than 0.4 percent.
   7.   The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve the existing
and future estimated traffic load for the facility. Lane widths for all streets
shall be as follows:
      a.   All major streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than eleven feet (11') nor more than twelve feet (12') in width, and lanes for
parallel parking or emergency stopping of not less than ten feet (10') in
width.
      b.   All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than ten feet (10') nor more than twelve feet (12') in width, and lanes for
parallel parking of not less than eight feet (8') in width.
   8.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and provided, that the planning commission
finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever, a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within such tract.
   9.   The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no hardship in the
subdividing of adjacent properties. The city may require the dedication of
street rights of way to facilitate the development of adjoining properties,
except the city shall not require the dedication for street and road right of
way purposes, any easements or other interest in land as a condition for the
approval of recording of a lot split deed. It shall further be declared to be
the intention of the city commission that this subsection be interpreted and
applied in conformity with the provisions of 19 Oklahoma Statutes section
867.1.
   10.   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the planning commission.
B.   Easements: Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than fifteen
feet (15') wide shall be provided for use by public and private utilities along
each rear lot line, and along side lot lines where necessary, in the following
manner:
   1.   A permanent easement not less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') wide
shall be provided along the rear lot line, or along the side lot line where
necessary, of each abutting or adjoining lot.
   2.   Where the land owned and being subdivided by the subdivider ends at a
rear or side lot line and the subdivider is unable to obtain from the adjoining
property owners an easement not less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') wide,
the planning commission, upon finding that the easement will be available from
the adjoining property owners at a future date, may approve the grant of an
easement along each rear lot line, or side lot line where necessary, not less
than fifteen feet (15') wide, of which ten feet (10') is a permanent easement
and five feet (5') is a temporary easement reverting to the property owner at
such time as the adjacent easement not less than seven and one-half feet (71/
2') wide is obtained from the adjoining property owner.
   3.   Easements shall be maintained free of buildings, fences and other
structures. The planning commission may require area easements and easement of
greater width for the extension of main storm and sanitary sewers, and other
utilities, where it is deemed necessary.
C.   Public Areas And Open Spaces: Public parks, playgrounds, school sites and
other public areas and open spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements and standards set forth in the general plan and in the ordinances
relating thereto.
D.   Blocks:
   1.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard for the following:
      a.   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      b.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      c.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   2.   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than one thousand eight
hundred feet (1,800'), measured along the centerlines of the block. When a
block exceeds six hundred feet (600') in length, the planning commission may
require a dedicated easement not less than fifteen feet (15') in width and a
paved crosswalk not less than four feet (4') in width to provide pedestrian
access across the block.
   3.   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width to
allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for
business and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended use,
with due allowance for off street parking and loading facilities.
E.   Lots:
   1.   Residential lots shall not be less than fifty feet (50') in width at
the front building line and shall abut a street a distance of not less than
thirty five feet (35'), except that a corner lot shall be not less than sixty
feet (60') in width at the front building.
   2.   Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   3.   The depth on residential lots should be not less than one hundred
twenty feet (120').
   4.   The area of residential lots shall be not less than seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet.
   5.   In residential subdivisions where septic tank or individual sewage
disposal devices are to be installed, the area of the lot shall not be less
than the area required as determined by an area percolation test performed by a
registered sanitarian, and the width to the lot at the front building line
shall not be less than one hundred feet (100').
   6.   Lots are not required for subdivision for commercial and industrial
use, but when provided, should be of appropriate size and arrangement to
provide for adequate off street parking and loading facilities based on the
intended use.
   7.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided, except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of residential development
from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet (10') shall be
provided along the portion of the lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
use where screening is required. There shall be no right of access across a
planting screen easement. (2010 Code § 22-74)
10-12-9: DESIGN AND INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with all of the
elements of the general plan and shall meet the minimum standards established
by the ordinances and regulations relating thereto. (2010 Code § 22-75)
10-12-10: PLAN PREPARATION:
Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by a qualified
engineer, registered in the state. Two (2) sets of prints of the proposed plans
and specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the city clerk.
(2010 Code § 22-76)
10-12-11: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
A.   Prior to recording of the final plat at the Payne County Courthouse, the
City Engineer or City Manager shall certify that the City has received one of
the following:
   1.   Completion Of Improvements: A letter submitted by the subdivider's
engineer and approved by the city engineer stating that all improvements and
installations to the subdivision required for its approval under the terms of
these rules and regulations have been made, added or installed and done so in
accordance with these specifications; or
   2.   Cash Payment: A cash payment in the full amount of the estimated
construction costs, as determined by the city engineer, necessary to complete
the improvements and installations for the subdivision in compliance with these
rules and regulations. Said cash payment and any accretions therefrom are to be
held in trust by the City pending final completion of the improvements for
which said payment was made; or
   3.   Performance Bond: A performance bond which shall be in the amount
determined by the city engineer to be sufficient to complete the improvements
and installations for the subdivision in compliance with these rules and
regulations; or
   4.   Letter Of Credit: A letter of credit, approved by the city engineer,
from a bank or credit union, guaranteeing an amount payable to the City, which
will cover the total cost of all required on-site and off-site improvements as
part of the Final Plat approval by the city commission and which meets these
rules and regulations; or
   5.   Other Guarantee: Some other guarantee, approved by the city attorney,
including but not limited to a lien against real property which will serve as
collateral or security for payment of required improvements under these rules
and regulations.
B.   Modifications And Expiration Of Guarantees: The City will establish time
periods and expiration dates for letters of credit, bonds or other guarantees
and shall have authority to modify and extend such instruments. When a portion
of the required improvements are made within a subdivision, the letter of
credit, cash payment, bond or other guarantee may be reduced, reimbursed or
modified to reflect partial completion of those improvements. (2010 Code § 22-
77; amd. Ord. 491, 2-14-2023)
10-12-12: PERMANENT REFERENCE MARKERS:
Each block corner shall be marked with iron pipe or pins not less than one-half
inch (1/2") in diameter and twenty four inches (24") long at least one inch
(1") below finished grade; and each subdivision shall be marked with a
permanent concrete reference marker capped with a noncorrosive metal plate, set
not less than one inch (1") below the finished grade. (2010 Code § 22-78)
10-12-13: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
A.   The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes, shall pave all streets that are
designed on the approved plat or that directly serve the subdivision by being
adjacent thereto in accordance with the plans and specifications of the city
now established by ordinance or resolution, or which may hereinafter be
established by ordinance or resolution, or amended or modified, in accordance
with the following provisions:
   1.   The design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street with
an existing state or federal highway shall be in accordance with the state
highway department, but in no case shall the standard be less than the
applicable city specifications. (2010 Code § 22-79; amd. 2012 Code)
   2.   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that requires a street
facility that is more costly than is required to serve the future occupants of
the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to pay only the portion of
the cost of the major street that would equal the cost of an improvement
required to serve only the subdivision, as determined by the planning
commission.
   3.   All driveways which connect with public streets shall be constructed in
accordance with "Standard Design Of Driveway Entrances For Oklahoma Highways",
revised September, 1956, and subsequent amendments thereto, as prepared by the
state highway department.
   4.   Whenever a subdivision is adjacent to an already existing unpaved
street, the subdivider will not be required to pave the entire breadth of said
street, but only half of the same street adjacent and parallel to said
subdivision. (2010 Code § 22-79)
10-12-14: SIDEWALKS:
A.   Sidewalks shall be required in all residential subdivisions on at least
one (1) side of the street. At the time a plat is processed, the subdivider may
request city commission approval of a temporary waiver for installing sidewalks
in the portion of the plat being submitted for final plat approval. As a
condition of any such waiver, the Commission may require a performance
guarantee which complies with section
10-12-11.
B.   Absent a waiver from the Commission, sidewalks shall also be required on
both sides of all streets providing direct access to any school site for a
distance of two thousand feet (2,000') from the property line of said school.
C.   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of collector streets,
arterial, and major thoroughfares, and on the property line side of all
frontage roads or major highways. For large scale commercial plats, the
subdivider may request city commission approval of constructing a sidewalk on
one (1) side only along any collector or arterial streets within or adjacent to
the plat. In such case, the sidewalk shall have a minimum width of six feet
(6') and shall be located not less than four feet (4') from the curb/curbline
of the collector or arterial street. For industrial plats, the subdivider may
request that the city commission waive the requirement of constructing
sidewalks.
D.   Sidewalks, except as provided in subsection C above, shall be a minimum of
five feet (5') in width unless placed directly behind the curb, in which case
the minimum width shall be six feet (6'). The planning commission and the city
commission may require additional sidewalks and sidewalk widths near commercial
areas, parks, schools, and other places of public assembly. Construction detail
drawings shall be provided with a plat application, depicting compliance with
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements for handicap-accessible
sidewalks to be constructed as part of the subdivision. (2010 Code § 22-80;
amd. Ord. 491, 2-14-2023)
10-12-15: WATER LINES:
A.   The subdivider shall install water lines and fire hydrants, and
installation shall be in accordance with the specifications and policies
governing water line construction.
B.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate:
   1.   Infiltration of floodwater into such systems; and
   2.   Discharges from such systems into floodwaters. (2010 Code § 22-81)
10-12-16: SANITARY SEWERS:
A.   The subdivider shall install sanitary sewers whenever a sanitary sewer is
reasonably accessible, as determined by the planning commission. Sanitary
sewers shall be installed in accordance with specifications governing sanitary
sewer construction.
B.   Whenever a sanitary sewer is not reasonably accessible, septic tanks or
other unit disposal systems may be used in accordance with the following
provisions:
   1.   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer than ten
feet (10') to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located.
   2.   All unit disposal system shall comply with the requirements of the
state and county health departments.
C.   Whenever subdivisions contain forty (40) acres or more, the planning
commission may require the subdivider to install sanitary sewers and a disposal
plant that is adequate to serve all of the lots within the subdivision.
D.   New or replacement sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate:
   1.   Infiltration of floodwaters into such systems; and
   2.   Discharges from such systems into floodwaters and on site waste
disposal systems shall be located so as to avoid impairment of them or
contamination for them during flooding. (2010 Code § 22-82)
10-12-17: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE:
Storm sewers and drainage shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications contained in the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
(2010 Code § 22-83)
10-12-18: FLOOD PREVENTION; MAINTENANCE, SUPERVISION:
A.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall be
reviewed to ensure that all such proposals are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage; that all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed so as
to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and that adequate drainage is provided
so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
B.   Where the subdivision contains sewer, sewage treatment plants, water
supply systems or other physical facilities necessary or desirable for the
welfare of the area, or that are of common use or benefit which are not or
cannot be satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency, provision
shall be made which is acceptable to the agency having jurisdiction over the
location and maintenance and supervision of such facilities. (2010 Code § 22-
84)
10-12-19: AS BUILT PLANS:
One set of as built plans and specifications for the improvements herein
required, certified and signed by an engineer registered in the state, shall be
filed with the city clerk prior to the acceptance by the city commission of any
improvements installed by the subdivider. (2010 Code § 22-85)
10-12-20: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
A.   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape, or
is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission may vary or modify,
except as otherwise indicated, such requirements of design, but not of
procedure or improvements, so that the subdivider may develop his property in a
reasonable manner, but also, at the same time, the public welfare and interests
of the city are protected, and the general intent and spirit of these
regulations preserved. Such modification may be granted upon written request of
the subdivider stating the reasons for each modification and may be waived by
three-fourths (3/4) vote of the regular membership of the planning commission.
B.   The city commission may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public
rules and regulations for the administration of these regulations to the end
that the public be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. These
regulations may be enlarged or amended by the city commission after public
hearing, due notice of which shall be given as required by law. (2010 Code §
22-88)
10-12-21: VIOLATION:
A.   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land which
does not comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
B.   The city hereby defines its policy to be that said city will withhold all
public improvements of whatsoever nature, including the maintenance of streets
and the furnishing of sewerage facilities and water service, from all
subdivisions and/or lot splits which have not been approved according to the
provisions contained in this chapter, as amended, and from all areas dedicated
to the public which have not been accepted by the city in the manner prescribed
herein. (2010 Code § 22-89; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 13
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-13-1: Permitted
10-13-2: Intent
10-13-3: Area Required
10-13-4: Uses
10-13-5: Ownership
10-13-6: Design
10-13-7: Open Spaces
10-13-8: Landscaping
10-13-9: Signs
10-13-10: Desirability
10-13-11: Consideration; Appeal
10-13-12: Contributions May Be Required
10-13-13: Approval
10-13-14: Limitations On Application
10-13-1: PERMITTED:
Planned unit developments (PUDs) shall be allowed by planning commission
approval in any zoning district. No such planned unit development permit shall
be granted unless such development will meet the use limitations of the zoning
district in which it is located and meet the density and other limitations of
such districts, except as such requirements may be lawfully modified as
provided by this title. Compliance with the regulations of this title in no way
excuses the developer from the applicable requirements of a subdivision
ordinance, except as modifications thereof are specifically authorized in the
approval of the application for the planned unit development. (2010 Code § 22-
90)
10-13-2: INTENT:
These regulations are to encourage and provide means for effecting desirable
and quality development by permitting greater flexibility and design freedom
than that permitted under the basic district regulations, and to accomplish a
well balanced, aesthetically satisfying city and economically desirable
development of building sites within a PUD. These regulations are established
to permit latitude in the development of the building site if such development
is found to be in accordance with the purpose, spirit and intent of this title,
and is found not to be hazardous, harmful, offensive or otherwise adverse to
the environment, property values or the character of the neighborhood, or the
health, safety and welfare of the community. It is intended to permit and
encourage diversification, variation and imagination in the relationship of
uses, structures, open spaces and heights of structures for developments
conceived and implemented as comprehensive and cohesive unified projects. It is
further intended to encourage more rational and economic development with
relationship to public services, and to encourage and facilitate the
preservation of open lands. (2010 Code § 22-91)
10-13-3: AREA REQUIRED:
No planned unit development shall have an area less than that approved by the
planning commission as adequate for the proposed development. (2010 Code § 22-
92)
10-13-4: USES:
A.   A planned unit development which will contain uses not permitted in the
zoning district in which it is to be located will require a change of zoning
district and shall be accompanied by an application for a zoning amendment,
except that any residential use shall be considered a permitted use in a
planned unit development, which allows residential uses, and shall be governed
by density, design and other requirements of the planned unit development
permit.
B.   Where a site is situated in more than one use district, the permitted uses
applicable to such property in one district may be extended into the adjacent
use district. (2010 Code § 22-93)
10-13-5: OWNERSHIP:
The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of
application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of
the property. (2010 Code § 22-94)
10-13-6: DESIGN:
The planning commission shall require such arrangements of structures and open
spaces within the site development plan as necessary to ensure that adjacent
properties will not be adversely affected.
A.   Density: Density of land use shall in no case be more than fifteen percent
(15%) higher than allowed in the zoning district.
B.   Arrangement: Where feasible, the least height and density of buildings and
uses shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
C.   Specific Regulations: Lot area, width, yard, height, density and coverage
regulations shall be determined by approval of the site development plan. (2010
Code § 22-95)
10-13-7: OPEN SPACES:
Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open spaces within the
development shall be accomplished by either:
A.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
B.   Creating a permanent, open space easement on and over the said private
open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains perpetually in
recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of an
owners' association established with articles of association and bylaws which
are satisfactory to the city commission. (2010 Code § 22-96)
10-13-8: LANDSCAPING:
Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the uses within the site and as a
means of integrating the proposed development into its surroundings shall be
planned and presented to the planning commission for approval, together with
other required plans for the development. A planting plan showing proposed tree
and shrubbery plantings shall be prepared for the entire site to be developed.
A grading and drainage plan shall also be submitted to the planning commission
with the application. (2010 Code § 22-97)
10-13-9: SIGNS:
The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the intensity and
direction of area or floodlighting, shall be detailed in the application. (2010
Code § 22-98)
10-13-10: DESIRABILITY:
The proposed use of the particular location shall be shown as necessary or
desirable, to provide a service or facility that will contribute to the general
well being of the surrounding area. It shall also be shown that under the
circumstances of the particular case, the proposed use will not be detrimental
to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of
the planned unit development. (2010 Code § 22-99)
10-13-11: CONSIDERATION; APPEAL:
In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the planning commission shall
consider the following principles:
A.   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a PUD
shall be prepared by a designer or team of designers having professional
competence in urban planning as proposed in the application. The planning
commission shall be permitted to require the applicant to engage such
professional expertise as a qualified designer or design team.
B.   It is not the intent of this chapter that control of the design of a PUD
by the planning commission be so rigidly exercised that individual initiative
be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it is the
intent of this chapter that the control exercised be the minimum necessary to
achieve the propose of this section.
C.   The planning commission shall be authorized to approve or disapprove an
application for a PUD. In an approval, the planning commission shall be
permitted to attach such conditions as it deems necessary to secure compliance
with the purposes set forth in this chapter. The denial of an application for a
PUD by the planning commission shall be permitted to be appealed to the city
commission. (2010 Code § 22-100)
10-13-12: CONTRIBUTIONS MAY BE REQUIRED:
The city commission, as part of the approval of a PUD, shall be permitted to
require an applicant to make reasonable contributions, to include, but not
limited to, any combination of the following:
A.   Dedication of land for public park purposes;
B.   Dedication of land for public school purposes;
C.   Dedication of land for public road right of way purposes;
D.   Construction of, or addition to, roads serving the proposed project when
such construction or addition is reasonably related to the traffic to be
generated;
E.   Installation of required traffic safety devices;
F.   Preservation of areas containing significant natural, environmental,
historic, archeological or similar resources. (2010 Code § 22-101)
10-13-13: APPROVAL:
The planning commission shall have the authority to require that the following
conditions for a planned unit development (among others it deems appropriate)
be met by the applicant:
A.   The proponents intend to start construction within one year of either the
approval of the project or of any necessary zoning district change, and intend
to complete said construction, or approved stages thereof, within four (4)
years from the date construction begins.
B.   The development is planned as one complex land use rather than as an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses. (2010 Code § 22-
102)
10-13-14: LIMITATIONS ON APPLICATION:
A.   Upon approval of a PUD, construction shall proceed only in accordance with
the plans and specifications approved by the planning commission and in
compliance with any conditions attached by the city commission as to its
approval.
B.   Amendment to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be obtained
only by following the procedures here outlined for first approval. (2010 Code §
22-103)
C.   The building code official shall not issue any permit for any proposed
building, structure or use within the project unless such building, structure
or use is in accordance with the approved development plan and with any
conditions imposed in conjunction with its approval. (2010 Code § 22-103; amd.
2012 Code)
CHAPTER 14
FAIR HOUSING POLICY
SECTION:
10-14-1: Policy
10-14-2: Definitions
10-14-3: Acts Prohibited
10-14-4: Exemptions
10-14-5: Administration
10-14-6: Complaints
10-14-7: Enforcement By Private Persons
10-14-8: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
10-14-9: Violation By Corporate Officers And Agents
10-14-10: Relief In Courts
10-14-1: POLICY:
It is policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing. (2010 Code § 22-106)
10-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
   DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof, which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representations, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries. (2010 Code § 22-107)
10-14-3: ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, commercial lending institution, real
estate broker, real estate salesperson or agent:
A.   To refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
B.   To refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental or leasing of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, because
of such person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
C.   To solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not to sell,
rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss or value due to
the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons
of another race, color, sex, religion or national origin, either by direct
solicitation or inducement, or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed, or making statements designed to induce a residential property
owner to sell or lease his property due to such change in neighborhood.
D.   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or corporation, firm
or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in the making of
commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a
person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him
in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or
conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of the race,
color, sex, religion or national origin of said person, or of any person
associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance,
or the purpose of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
is to be made or given.
E.   To file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with knowledge
that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such complaint
for the sole purpose of harassment. (2010 Code § 22-108)
10-14-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall apply to:
A.   Any religious nonprofit organization, or association or society, operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units,
owned and operated for other than a commercial purpose.
B.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that such
private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; and provided further, that only one such sale may be
made within any twenty four (24) month period.
C.   Any dwelling containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by no more than four (4) families living independent of each other and
the owner actually occupies one such living quarter as his residence.
D.   Any private club not in fact open to public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodging to its members or from giving preference to its members. (2010 Code §
22-109)
10-14-5: ADMINISTRATION:
A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall be
in the city commission.
B.   The city commission may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers
to employees of the city, or to boards composed of citizens of the city,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. (2010
Code § 22-110)
10-14-6: COMPLAINTS:
A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminating housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the city. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the city requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the city shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged
discrimination housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of
reference under subsection C of this section, the city decides to resolve the
complaints, the city, through the city commission or any appointed board, shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods or conference, conciliations and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the city
who shall make public any information in violation of this provision shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code § 22-111; amd. 2012 Code)
B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at the time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the city, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
C.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the city
commission, the city has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a
complaint with the secretary of the department of housing and urban
development.
D.   If the city has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within thirty
(30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days
hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant. (2010 Code § 22-111)
10-14-7: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
The rights granted by this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or
local courts of general jurisdiction. (2010 Code § 22-112)
10-14-8: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person on the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his exercised or
enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this chapter.
This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action. (2010 Code § 22-113)
10-14-9: VIOLATION BY CORPORATE OFFICERS AND AGENTS:
Violation of any of the terms or provisions of this chapter by any corporation
or association shall subject the officers and agents actively in charge of the
business of such corporation or association, to the penalty herein provided.
(2010 Code § 22-116)
10-14-10: RELIEF IN COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus and injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm
or corporation. (2010 Code § 22-115)
CHAPTER 15
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-15-1: Statutory Authorization
10-15-2: Findings Of Fact
10-15-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-15-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-15-5: Definitions
10-15-6: Lands Applicable
10-15-7: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-15-8: Development Permit
10-15-9: Compliance Required
10-15-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-15-11: Interpretation
10-15-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-15-13: Floodplain Administrator
10-15-14: Permit Procedures
10-15-15: Variance Procedure
10-15-16: General Standards
10-15-17: Specific Standards
10-15-18: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
10-15-19: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
10-15-20: Floodways
10-15-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state has, in 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1601 through
1618, as amended, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city
floodplain board adopts the following floodplain management regulations. (2010
Code § 22-117)
10-15-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in
floodplains, which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (2010 Code § 22-118)
10-15-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to
A.   Protect human life and health;
B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding
and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and gas
mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (2010 Code § 22-119)
10-15-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations use the following
methods:
A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property
in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve
such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and natural
protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters;
D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (2010 Code § 22-120)
10-15-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give these regulations its most reasonable application:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30
or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the one
percent (1%) chance flood, as defined in this section as the "base flood".
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BOARD: The Oklahoma water resources board.
   CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING:
   A.   A nonbasement building:
      1.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH,
B, C, X and D to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE or V to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
      2.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
   B.   In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
   C.   In the case of zones V1-30, VE or V, "elevated building" also includes
a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building", even though
the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls
met the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the board and designated by
a floodplain board to administer and implement laws and regulations relating to
the management of the floodplains.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure, and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community flood insurance rate map are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM, or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain
management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start
of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act, Pub.L. 97-348, includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have
been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the
minimum necessary conditions; or
B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of these
regulations or ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by these regulations. (For full requirements, see
section 60.6 of the national flood insurance program regulations.)
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum where specified, of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (2010 Code § 22-121; amd. 2012 Code)
10-15-6: LANDS APPLICABLE:
These floodplain management regulations shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city; provided, that development
projects reviewed and approved by the city from December 10, 2002 to May 16,
2007, under its preexisting floodplain map and regulations shall still be
governed by the provisions of city ordinance 271. (2010 Code § 22-122)
10-15-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Payne County And Incorporated Areas", dated May 16, 2007,
with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. (2010 Code § 22-123)
10-15-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of these floodplain management regulations. (2010 Code § 22-124)
10-15-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and other
applicable regulations. (2010 Code § 22-125)
10-15-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
These regulations are not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where these regulations and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (2010 Code §
22-126)
10-15-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (2010 Code § 22-127)
10-15-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. These regulations do not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the community or any
official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (2010
Code § 22-128)
10-15-13: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
A.   Designated: The city floodplain board shall designate or appoint a
floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of these
regulations and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (2010 Code § 22-129)
B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain
administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of these regulations.
   2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building sites,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these regulations.
   4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval are required.
   5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency of the state water resources board, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
federal emergency management agency.
   7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
10-15-7 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source in order to administer the provisions of
sections
10-15-16 through
10-15-19 of this chapter.
   9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect
or the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30 and AE on the community FIRM, which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'); provided,
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision).
   11.   Become accredited by the board in accordance with 82 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 1601 through 1618, as amended.
   12.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the city, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes have been substantially damaged and enforce the substantial
improvement requirement. (2010 Code § 22-130)
10-15-14: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the floodplain
administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
   1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
   2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
   3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that
the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria
of subsection
10-15-17B of this chapter;
   4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage
will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
   5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with subsection
10-15-13B1 of this chapter.
B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of these regulations and the following
relevant factors:
   1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
   7.   The expected heights, velocity duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (2010 Code § 22-131)
10-15-15: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
A.   Appeal Board: The appeal board, as established by the community, shall
hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
these regulations.
B.   Authority Of Appeal Board: The appeal board shall hear and render judgment
on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement,
decision or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the
enforcement or administration of these regulations.
C.   Further Appeal To Court: Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision
of the appeal board may appeal such decision in the courts of competent
jurisdiction.
D.   Records Maintained; Reporting: The floodplain administrator shall maintain
a record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
federal emergency management agency upon request.
E.   Exceptions For Historic Places: Variances may be issued for the
reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the
national register of historic places or the state inventory of historic places,
without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of these
regulations.
F.   Conditions Permitting Variance: Variances may be issued for new
construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half
(1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant
factors in subsection
10-15-14B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
G.   Conditions May Be Attached: Upon consideration of the factors noted above
and the intent of these regulations, the appeal board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose and objectives of these regulations as provided in section
10-15-3 of this chapter.
H.   Prohibited Variances: Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
I.   Repair, Rehabilitation Of Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for
the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
J.   Prerequisites For Granting: Prerequisites for granting variances:
   1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief;
   2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
      b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances.
   3.   A written notice will be provided to any person granted a variance to
build a structure below the base flood elevation. This notice will inform the
variance applicant that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower
than the base flood elevation.
K.   Functionally Dependent Uses: Variances may be issued by a community for
new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
   1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
   2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (2010 Code § 22-132)
L.   Filing Of Petition; Fee: Any person seeking a variance shall file a
petition with the floodplain board, accompanied by a filing fee as established
by resolution of the city commission. (2010 Code § 22-132; amd. 2012 Code)
M.   Copy Of Variance To State: A copy of any variance issued shall be sent to
the state water resources board within fifteen (15) days of issuance. (2010
Code § 22-132)
10-15-16: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed, or
modified, and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage;
D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge from the
systems into floodwaters; and
G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (2010 Code § 22-133)
10-15-17: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
10-15-7 and subsections
10-15-13B8 and
10-15-18C of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement of
any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in subsection
10-15-14A1 of this chapter is satisfied.
B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial improvements
of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall have the
lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet (2') above the base flood
level. The floodplain administrator shall maintain records of the elevation
certificate and permit application to verify that this standard has been met.
C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
   1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
   2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above
grade.
   3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
D.   Manufactured Homes:
   1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on the
city FIRM shall be elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. For the
purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community FIRM on sites: a)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision; or d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones A1-30, AH
and AE on the community FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this
subsection be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement to support the manufactured home chassis.
E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites
within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community FIRM either: 1) be on the site
for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days; 2) be fully licensed
and ready for highway use; or 3) meet the permit requirements of subsection
10-15-14A of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
F.   Accessory Structure:
   1.   Structure is low valued and represents a minimal investment.
   2.   Structure shall be small and not exceed six hundred (600) square feet
in size.
   3.   Structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
   4.   Structure can be used only for parking and limited storage.
   5.   Structure shall not be used for human habitation (including work,
sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
   6.   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment, must be
elevated to or above the base flood elevation or floodproofed.
   7.   Structure is constructed and placed on building site so as to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   8.   Structure is designed to have low flood damage potential, i.e.,
constructed with flood resistance materials.
   9.   Structure is firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
   10.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure.
   11.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the base flood elevation.
   12.   Structure is to be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent and
nearby structures. (2010 Code § 22-134)
10-15-18: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
A.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with sections
10-15-2,
10-15-3 and
10-15-4 of this chapter.
B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the placement
of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of sections
10-15-8,
10-15-14 and
10-15-16 through 10-15-19 of this chapter.
C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
10-15-7 and subsection
10-15-13B8 of this chapter.
D.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
E.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (2010 Code § 22-135)
10-15-19: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in section
10-15-7 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flows may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow, therefore, the following
provisions apply:
A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).
B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
   1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
community FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
   2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so
that below the base flood level the structure is watertight, with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection
10-15-14A1 of this chapter are satisfied.
D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (2010
Code § 22-136)
10-15-20:   FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
10-15-7 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
10-15-16 through
10-15-19 of this chapter.
C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the national
flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations; provided, that the community first completes all of the provisions
required by said section 65.12. (2010 Code § 22-137)
CHAPTER 16
DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENTATION POLICIES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Design Policies And Standards
10-16-2: Regional Detention Systems
10-16-3: Title, Ownership And Maintenance Of Facilities
10-16-1: DESIGN POLICIES AND STANDARDS:
A.   Drainage Policies:
   1.   The stormwater drainage system shall be designed to pass the peak
stormwater runoff received from upstream and from the subject property for
storms with durations up to twenty four (24) hours and return periods of up to
one hundred (100) years.
   2.   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be constructed
so that it will not increase the frequency of flooding or the depth of flood
flows for any storm, up to and including the twenty four (24) hour 100-year
storm.
   3.   Peak flows shall not be increased at any location for any storm, up to
and including the twenty four (24) hour 100-year storm.
   4.   Regulation of peak flows to allowable levels, as determined by
subsections A2 and A3 of this section, shall be achieved by on site or off site
storage and/or other water management facilities as provided in these
standards.
   5.   Subject to requirements for a drainage plan or earth change permit and
of the city drainage standards, downstream conveyance may be improved or
easements obtained for inundated areas to compensate for increased flow depths
if such improvements comply with the policies of this chapter.
   6.   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be constructed
so that it will not cause harm to other properties as a result of concentrating
flows.
   7.   On site stormwater control may not be required for sites less than two
and one-half (21/2) acres in size if it is determined by the city engineer that
stormwater runoff from the site will not cause adverse effects as described in
this chapter. The city engineer may request that the applicant provide such
information as required to make this determination.
B.   Erosion And Sediment Control Policies:
   1.   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be designed,
constructed and completed in a manner which minimizes the exposure of bare
earth to precipitation.
   2.   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be constructed
only if appropriate sedimentation facilities are installed and maintained
throughout the construction period.
   3.   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be accompanied
by best management practices for controlling sediment and erosion so as to
minimize the amount of sediment leaving the site. (2010 Code § 22-141)
10-16-2: REGIONAL DETENTION SYSTEMS:
Regional detention systems may be permitted and are recognized as one of the
preferred methods of providing stormwater control. These systems may be
designed to control the fully urbanized flows so as to permit the maximum use
by developments in lieu of constructing small, on site detention. (2010 Code §
22-142)
10-16-3: TITLE, OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES:
Public or private title, ownership and maintenance of detention and drainage
facilities required herein shall be determined by criteria established by and
contained in the city drainage standards. Regional detention systems shall be
owned, maintained and operated by the city. (2010 Code § 22-143)
CHAPTER 17
DRAINAGE PLANS AND STUDIES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Drainage Plan Required
10-17-2: Previously Approved Residential Plats
10-17-3: Construction And Approval Of Drainage Facilities
10-17-4: Contents
10-17-5: Minimum Surface Drainage Requirement
10-17-6: Floodplain Designations
10-17-7: Drainage Plan Preparation
10-17-8: Determination Of Storm Runoff
10-17-9: Rational Method Of Runoff Computation
10-17-10: Flow In Streets
10-17-11: Enclosed Storm Sewer
10-17-12: Design Criteria
10-17-13: Inlet System
10-17-14: Open Drainage Channels
10-17-15: Open Storm Drainage Requirements
10-17-16: Design Considerations
10-17-17: Development Grading
10-17-18: Stormwater Storage
10-17-19: Location Considerations For Stormwater Storage
10-17-20: Design Considerations For Rainfall And Runoff Storage
10-17-21: Erosion And Sedimentation
10-17-1: DRAINAGE PLAN REQUIRED:
A.   A drainage plan prepared in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be submitted to and accepted by the city engineer prior to the approval
of any final plat or final replat of any subdivision of land, prior to the
approval by the planning commission of any minor subdivision, prior to the
issuance of any building permit, or prior to the approval of any development.
B.   At application for review of any item that may require a drainage plan, a
drainage study shall be submitted to the city engineer. If the drainage study
shows that no increase in peak stormwater flows will result from the
development, the city engineer may waive the requirement for a final drainage
study and a drainage plan. Drainage studies shall contain adequate information
and calculations to demonstrate the validity of the conclusions being made and
that they are in compliance with these standards. A drainage study shall be
formulated under the direct supervision and sealed by a registered professional
engineer licensed by the state.
C.   Two (2) weeks prior to review at a public meeting by the planning
commission, a final drainage study must have been submitted to the city
engineer.
D.   A final drainage study prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be reviewed and accepted by the city engineer prior to approval
by the planning commission of any preliminary plat of any subdivision of land,
and prior to the approval by the city commission of any final plat or final
replat of any subdivision of land, development, site plan or use permit.
E.   Upon approval by the city commission and/or the planning commission of any
item that requires a drainage plan, a revised final drainage study that
reflects any special conditions of the city commission and/or the planning
commission approval shall be submitted and accepted.
F.   A drainage plan accepted by the city engineer is a prerequisite to the
issuance of a building permit. (2010 Code § 22-144)
10-17-2: PREVIOUSLY APPROVED RESIDENTIAL PLATS:
A.   Under the following circumstances, the development of a final residential
plat shall not have to be redesigned for drainage:
   1.   Any subdivision for which a final plat was approved prior to May 13,
2003; and
   2.   Which has not been designed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and
   3.   In which improvements were installed prior to May 13, 2003; and
   4.   The sale of lots in said subdivision began prior to May 13, 2003; and
   5.   The development of said subdivision is being accomplished with the same
general use as originally intended when approval was granted for the final
plat; and
   6.   Structures have been built on more than fifty percent (50%) of the lots
by the effective date of this chapter.
B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve a developer of
property from obligations under any other laws, including, but not limited to,
the Oklahoma stormwater act. (2010 Code § 22-145)
10-17-3: CONSTRUCTION AND APPROVAL OF DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
A.   Requirements: All drainage facilities shown as part of an accepted
drainage plan for any portion of a development shall be installed as a part of
the first phase of construction or earthmoving activity on that portion of the
development. If only a portion of the drainage facilities are installed on any
development due to phased construction of the development, these facilities
shall be constructed to function in such a manner as to be consistent with the
purpose of this chapter. The use of temporary drainage facilities may be
permitted so long as they function in such a manner as to be consistent with
the purpose of this chapter and that they are replaced with permanent drainage
facilities prior to occupancy or use of the development. Minor deviations from
the requirement for installing the drainage facilities as a part of the first
phase of construction or earthmoving activity may be granted by the city
engineer if deemed necessary for technical reasons related to the construction
as long as the purpose of this chapter is met.
B.   As Built Drawings: As built drawings shall be prepared and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state and shall be submitted to the
city engineer upon completion of the construction of the final drainage plan.
As built drawings shall clearly show any changes from the accepted final
drainage plan. The as built drawings shall be reviewed by the city engineer. If
the submitted as built drawings cannot be accepted, the certifying engineer and
applicant shall be advised in writing of the reasons for their disapproval. As
built drawings must be accepted prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy and the use or occupancy of a site, development or other improvement.
C.   Maintenance Bond: Before acceptance by the city commission of any public
improvement for city maintenance, a maintenance bond for the total cost of the
improvement and for a period of one year shall be filed with the city clerk to
ensure the correction of any defect in materials or workmanship that may be
found in the improvement. (2010 Code § 22-146)
10-17-4: CONTENTS:
A.   General Requirements: All final drainage studies shall be formulated under
the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer licensed by the
state. Studies submitted for final acceptance shall be accompanied by payment
of a fee in accordance with the schedule approved by the city commission, and
bear the signature and seal of the submitting engineer and, additionally, the
following statement shall immediately precede the signature and seal of the
submitting engineer:
I hereby certify that I am familiar with the adopted ordinances and regulations
of the city of Perkins governing drainage facilities; that this final drainage
study has been prepared under my direct engineering supervision; and that the
above and foregoing final drainage study complies with all governing ordinances
and the adopted drainage standards of the city of Perkins pertaining to
drainage facilities to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
B.   Statements:
   1.   All final drainage plans shall be formulated under the direct
supervision of a registered professional engineer licensed by the state. Plans
submitted for final acceptance shall bear the signature and seal of the
submitting engineer and, additionally, the following statement shall
immediately precede the signature and seal of the submitting engineer:
I hereby certify that I am familiar with the adopted ordinances and regulations
of the city of Perkins governing drainage facilities that the final drainage
plan has been prepared under my direct engineering supervision; and that the
above and foregoing final drainage plan complies with all governing ordinances
and the adopted drainage standards of the city of Perkins pertaining to
drainage facilities to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
   2.   Following the signature and seal of the submitting engineer, the
drainage plan shall bear the name, address, phone number and signature of the
owner, which shall be subscribed below the following statement:
I (We) hereby certify that the accepted drainage plan will be implemented as
designed and "as built" drawings prepared of the completed drainage facilities
under the general supervision of a professional engineer licensed by the state
of Oklahoma. I (We) further certify that I am (we are) aware of my (our)
responsibilities as the owner(s) of record for this piece of property, and that
I (we) may be held personally (corporately) liable for any violations on this
property resulting from the failure to comply with the provisions of the
adopted ordinances and regulations of the city of Perkins governing drainage
facilities. Said provisions include, but are not limited to, responsibilities
for proper construction, construction procedures and maintenance of the
drainage facilities upon completion.
   3.   In the case of property owned by a corporation, the statement shall use
the parenthetical language and the owners information shall also include the
title of the authorized person signing the owners certification and a notarized
corporate seal.
C.   Final Drainage Study Elements: A drainage study shall consist of text
statements, engineering drawings, contour maps, and all supporting engineering
drawings, supporting contour maps, and supporting engineering calculations
applicable to the land area covered by the study and which are required to
demonstrate full compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the city
drainage standards. A study shall include all pertinent information required by
the city engineer and may include, but shall not be limited to, any or all of
the following elements:
   1.   An engineering report showing compliance with the applicable provisions
of this chapter and the city drainage standards, clearly detailing the scope of
the engineering problem and the proposed solutions;
   2.   An engineering hydrologic analysis of stormwater runoff under existing
site conditions and under proposed developed site conditions;
   3.   A detailed evaluation of the projected effects on property adjoining
the site and on existing drainage facilities and systems both on and off the
site;
   4.   The location of all existing and planned temporary and permanent
drainage facilities;
   5.   The on site regulatory flood elevations and the boundaries of any
floodplain area. In every instance, the plan shall include a determination of
the area required to carry the regulatory flood;
   6.   The proposed method of handling all runoff from the development and
demonstrated capability to handle the pass- through of upstream runoff;
   7.   Proposed fill or other structure elevating techniques, levees, channel
modifications and detention facilities;
   8.   The location and size of all existing and proposed drainage easements
and areas; and
   9.   The location, size, character and estimated effectiveness of all
temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation control facilities with
specifications detailing all on site erosion control measures which will be
established and maintained during all periods of development and construction.
An outline of the sequence of construction activities shall be provided that
notes when the various aspects of the drainage study will be implemented. (2010
Code § 22-147)
10-17-5: MINIMUM SURFACE DRAINAGE REQUIREMENT:
A.   General Design Criteria:
   1.   Drainage facilities shall be designed to provide a sufficient
stormwater drainage system for the conveyance of stormwater runoff received
from upstream and from the subject property with due allowance having been made
for continued conveyance of stormwater runoff from adjacent properties as the
drainage basin develops.
   2.   The drainage system, including streets, bridges, culverts, open
channels, detention/retention facilities, etc., shall be designed to carry all
probable storm recurrence intervals up to and including the 100-year storm.
   3.   A dedicated drainage easement shall encompass all land lying below the
water surface elevation generated by the 100-year storm event and resulting
stormwater runoff.
   4.   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building pads to
an elevation where the lowest finished floor elevations will not be subject to
overflow from the design storm. All developments, surface water from each
dwelling lot will flow away from each dwelling to an approved collection or
disposal location as required under section
10-17-17 of this chapter.
   5.   Erosion and sedimentation control facilities with construction
specification and operation and maintenance procedures detailing all erosion
and sedimentation control measures which are established and required
maintenance during the life of the development shall be provided.
   6.   No improvements shall be constructed which will increase the frequency
or the depth of flooding.
B.   Existing Drainage Structures: Existing structures within and adjoining a
proposed development shall be evaluated in terms of hydraulic capacity and
structural soundness. Those structures found to be structurally inadequate
shall be completely removed by the developer and replaced. Structures found to
be hydraulically inadequate for flow and/or for protecting property as a result
of the changing runoff characteristics shall be replaced or modified to provide
the required capacity and/or protection.
C.   Utilities: All utilities located within the floodway shall be designed to
prevent infiltration of floodwater and to protect against washouts. Location of
the utilities shall not restrict flood flows. (2010 Code § 22-148)
10-17-6: FLOODPLAIN DESIGNATIONS:
Any reference to official maps shall mean the highest order of floodplain
designation recognized by the city. The city engineer will maintain an up to
date file of such designation. The highest available order of study shall be
the basis of design unless it can be clearly shown that the subject study is in
error. Contested studies shall be brought to the attention of the city
engineer. (2010 Code § 22-149)
10-17-7: DRAINAGE PLAN PREPARATION:
A.   Preparations:
   1.   Plan and profile shall be drawn on sheets twenty four inches by thirty
six inches (24" x 36") to a horizontal scale of one inch to twenty feet (1" =
20') or one inch to forty feet (1" = 40'), and vertical scale of one inch to
two feet (1" = 2') or one inch to four feet (1" = 4') (except that scales may
vary on special projects, such as culverts and channel cross sections).
   2.   Stationing shall proceed upstream with the north arrow pointing to the
top of the sheet, or to the right.
   3.   Plan for the proposed drainage system shall include property lines, lot
and block numbers, dimensions, right of way and easement lines, floodplains,
street names, paved surfaces (existing or proposed), contract limits, location,
size and type of inlets, manholes, culverts, pipes, channels and related
structures. Outfall details, miscellaneous riprap placement, two foot (2')
contour lines, flow arrows, title block.
   4.   Profiles shall indicate the proposed system (size and material) with
elevations, flow lines, gradients, left and right bank channel profiles,
station numbers, inlets, manholes, ground line and curb line elevations,
typical sections, riprap construction, filling details, minimum permissible
slab elevations adjacent to 100-year floodplains, open drainage features, pipe
crossings, design flow capacities, and title block.
   5.   Official floodplain designations and delineations of floodways denoting
limits of permissible developments shall be shown on all preliminary plans and
final plats submitted for approval wherever such plans and plats contain
floodplains and/or floodway segments. In any case in which official floodplains
are not delineated, they shall be determined on the basis of these standards
and shall be shown on all preliminary plans and final plats submitted for
approval.
B.   Submittals: Computations and plans to support all drainage designs shall
be submitted to the city engineer for review. The computations and plans shall
be in such form as to provide the basis for timely and consistent review and
will be made a part of the permanent record for future evaluation. The
computations and plans shall be accompanied by the certification of a
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the state. Before
final approval, the submitting engineer shall provide an as built plan,
accompanied with a letter of certification, stating that the submitted plan
complies with all governing ordinances and adopted drainage standards of the
city. (2010 Code § 22-150)
10-17-8: DETERMINATION OF STORM RUNOFF:
Numerous methods of runoff computation are available on which the design of
storm drainage and flood control systems may be based. The rational method will
be accepted as adequate for drainage areas up to forty (40) acres. For larger
areas, the U.S. army corps of engineers, hydraulic engineering circular (HEC) 1
and 2 shall be used. Other methods may be approved by the city engineer. (2010
Code § 22-151)
10-17-9: RATIONAL METHOD OF RUNOFF COMPUTATION:
A.   Runoff Coefficient "C": The runoff coefficients shall be chosen to
represent the integrated effects of infiltration, detention storage,
evaporation retention, flow routing and interception. Recommended ranges for
"C" are provided in table 2.1, "Runoff Coefficients For The Rational Formula By
Hydrological Soil Group And Slope", which is on file in the city office. The
hydrological soil group is to be determined from Oklahoma County, Oklahoma,
soil survey provided by the United States department of agriculture soil
conservation service.
B.   Rainfall Intensity (i): The average rainfall rate in inches per hour
considered for a particular drainage basis or subbasin and selected on the
basis of design rainfall duration and design frequency or occurrence.
   1.   Intensity duration curves acceptable for the city are shown on figure
2.1.
   2.   The time of concentration is the time associated with the peak runoff
from the watershed to the point of interest. Street flow shall be considered as
being in an open paved channel. Manning's equation is acceptable for
determining open channel and free water surface conduits flows.
An acceptable formula for use in determining overland flow is:
L = Length of flow in feet            Time = K (L .37/S2)
S = Average slope in ft/ft             
K = Constant for character of surface  
Pavement - .37                        Values of K:
Bare soil - .60                        
Poor grass - .90                       
Average grass - 1.00                   
Dense grass - 1.13                     
 
An acceptable formula for determining channel flow time is:
      Time = K (L 2/S)•385
      Values of K
      Curbed street - .0035
      Concave lined channel - .006
      Sodded swale - .008
      Bar ditch - .012
The time of flow in a closed conduit is the quotient of the length of the
conduit and velocity of flow as computed using the hydraulic factors of the
conduit.
C.   Drainage Area (A): The size and shape of the watershed must be determined.
Drainage areas shall be determined through the use of planimetric topographic
maps, supplemented by field surveys. A drainage area map shall be provided for
each project. The drainage area contributing to the system being designed and
drainage subarea contributing to each inlet point shall be identified. The
outlines of the drainage divides must follow actual lines rather than
artificial land divisions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb82112e6611a4e902cbcf8785fdcf05504e9a34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1925.png]
(2010 Code § 22-152; amd. 2012 Code)
10-17-10: FLOW IN STREETS:
A.   The location of inlets and permissible flow of water in the streets should
be related to the extent and frequency of interference to traffic and the
likelihood of flood damage to surrounding property. Interference to traffic is
regulated by design limits of the depth and spread of water into traffic lanes,
especially in regard to collector streets and arterials.
   1.   Flow in gutters which are on straight or parabolic crown pavement may
be determined by using Manning's formula for channel flow or acceptable
monographs.
   2.   Minimum gutter slope on residential streets shall not be less than
0.004 ft./ft.: (0.4%). Maximum gutter slope should not be more than 0.08 ft./
ft.: (8.0%). In a gutter which has a radius of one hundred feet (100') or less,
the design flow depth shall not exceed seventy percent (70%) of the curb
height.
   3.   No lowering of the standard height of street crown or splitting of curb
heights shall be allowed for the purpose of hydraulic design unless approved by
the city engineer. In no case will it be allowed on collector streets or
thoroughfares.
   4.   All street sections shall have a positive crown, except alleys.
   5.   The flow depth in the gutter arterial streets shall not exceed four
inches (4") for the 50-year storm event or six inches (6") for the 100-year
storm event. The flow depths in the gutter on other classification of streets
shall not exceed six inches (6") for the 100-year storm event. Where two (2) or
more streets flowing six inches (6") in depth intersect, the flow shall be
intercepted by appropriate storm sewer techniques prior to the intersection of
said streets such that the depth of flow within the intersection will not
exceed four inches (4") in depth for the 100-year storm event.
B.   The use of a cul-de-sac or dead end street as the terminal point of
residential street flow shall not be allowed for drainage areas exceeding five
(5) acres. A minimum of seventy percent (70%) of the flow in a residential
street shall be removed to a storm sewer or drainage system prior to reaching
the point of curvature of a cul-de-sac or the end of the street for drainage
areas exceeding five (5) acres in size. (2010 Code § 22-153)
10-17-11: ENCLOSED STORM SEWER:
A.   The use of the Manning equation or the use of appropriate charts or
nomographs in the design of storm sewers will be considered acceptable.
Investigations of the capacity of all existing structures on the waterway shall
be made.
B.   In addition, runoff from storms exceeding the design storm shall be
anticipated by the developer and disposed of with minimum damages to
surrounding property. The sewer must be accessible for maintenance. (2010 Code
§ 22-154)
10-17-12: DESIGN CRITERIA:
A.   Pipe Diameter: Pipes which are a part of the storm sewer system shall have
a minimum diameter of fifteen inches (15").
B.   Storm Drain Design: Enclosed storm drains will be designed for open
channel flow.
C.   Minimum Grades: The slope shall be such to maintain a minimum velocity of
2.5 fps.
D.   Roughness Coefficient: Acceptable roughness coefficient "n" for storm
sewers:
 
Materials Of Construction           Design Coefficient Manning's
Box culverts                        0.013
Concrete pipe                       0.012
Annular plain corrugated metal pipe 0.024
Helical plain corrugated pipe       0.013
Other materials                     "n" as approved by city engineer
 
E.   General Rules To Be Observed:
   1.   Do not discharge a larger pipe into a smaller one.
   2.   At change in pipe size match top of pipe.
   3.   A one foot (1') freeboard shall be maintained below the proposed finish
grade through the storm sewer system. The submittal of energy calculations
shall be required on any reach of a system which exceeds five hundred (500)
linear feet; on the total system that exceeds one thousand five hundred (1,500)
linear feet; on a reach of a system which has an elevation change exceeding ten
feet (10').
F.   Manhole Locations: Manholes shall be located at intervals not to exceed
three hundred fifty feet (350') for pipe sizes forty two inches (42") or less.
Above forty two inches (42"), manholes shall be located as determined by the
city engineer. Manholes shall be located at conduit junctions, changes of grade
and changes of alignment, and changes in conduit size.
G.   Pipe Connections: The use of one material to extend a sewer constructed of
a different material shall not be allowed except at manholes, junction boxes or
inlets.
H.   Pipe Laid On Curves: Degree of curvature shall be as per manufacturer's
recommendations.
I.   Erosion Protection: All storm sewer outlets shall have erosion protection
provided by headwalls, flared end sections, curtain walls, etc. (2010 Code §
22-154a)
10-17-13: INLET SYSTEM:
A.   Inlet design and location in street sections must be compatible with the
allowable depth of water on the street section.
B.   Inlet location shall not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
C.   Whenever possible, inlets will intercept water before it reaches a
pedestrian crosswalk or street intersection.
D.   Inlets shall not be located in a curb radius. Where existing conditions
exist that require an inlet in the radius, the radius shall not be less than
thirty eight feet (38').
E.   Inlets shall be located to prevent water from minor streets spilling over
and flooding major streets.
F.   All hoods in a sump condition shall be eight inch (8") opening with the
gutter lowered to accommodate the inlet. Transition section shall be ten feet
(10') each way.
G.   Where a curbed street crosses a bridge, gutter flow shall be intercepted
and not allowed to flow onto the bridge.
H.   Inlets shall be installed at all low points with sufficient inlet design
to ensure the ponding depth does not exceed four inches (4") in a 50-year storm
event. All storm sewer systems at a low point shall provide for an overflow
channel with a designated drainage easement.
I.   No method of determining capacity is prescribed in this standard.
Theoretical capacities using clear water in nomograph form have been published
by various sources such as the ASCE and highway research board. When using
nomographs, submit the source along with drainage calculations.
J.   Any inlet grates over which a bicyclist can ride shall be of a design
considered bicycle safe. (2010 Code § 22-155)
10-17-14: OPEN DRAINAGE CHANNELS:
Natural drainage flow: The creation of swales, alteration of small channel
capacity or direction, changing of ground cover and the lining of existing
channels with other material, natural or man produced. May be necessary in some
parts of the system to achieve the objectives of this standard. (2010 Code §
22-156)
10-17-15: OPEN STORM DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   All land adjoining open natural or improved storm drainage channels having
an elevation below the 100-year flood elevation of the channel shall be
dedicated drainage easement for the purpose of providing a zone of protection
to all property owners.
B.   Any channel improvements shall be approved by the city engineer prior to
the commencement of any work thereon.
C.   Whenever channel improvements are carried out, sodding, backsloping,
cribbing and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to control
siltation and erosion for the anticipated conditions and flow resulting from a
100-year frequency rainfall. (See section
10-17-8 of this chapter.)
D.   Any channel grading shall be such that water will not gather in pools.
E.   Drainage easements to provide working room for construction and access for
channel maintenance shall be provided. (2010 Code § 22-157)
10-17-16: DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
A.   Channels: Channels should be trapezoidal in shape, and on as flat a grade
as possible.
B.   Hydraulic Characteristic Calculation: The use of Manning's equation in the
calculations of hydraulic characteristics of channels will be acceptable. The
"N" value(s) used for channels shall be based on the individual channel
characteristics. When submitting calculations, include the source.
C.   Constructed Channel Geometry: The minimum bottom width shall be four feet
(4'), with side slopes of not steeper than 3.5 to one for sodded sections and a
minimum bottom width of three feet (3'), with side slopes of not steeper than
one to one (1:1) for paved or rocklined sections. Care must be exercised by the
engineer to provide a safe design in relations to public areas.
D.   Flow Velocities In Channels: Velocities shall not exceed four (4) fps for
sections sodded in grass. Velocities in concrete lined or paved sections shall
not exceed fifteen (15) fps. The dissipation of energy shall be required at the
confluence of improved channels with natural channels through the use of
dissipaters, stilling basins, etc.
E.   Trickle Channels: All channels altered or improved from the natural state
will require a paved trickle channel. Sodding, or other methods of erosion
control, shall be required adjacent to the paved channel.
F.   Concrete Flumes: Concrete flumes in lieu of enclosed pipe shall be allowed
as overflow protection for storm sewer systems, and to drain areas not
exceeding five (5) acres in size. All concrete flumes shall extend to the rear
of adjacent lots and shall discharge into a dedicated drainage area or channel.
(2010 Code § 22-158)
10-17-17: DEVELOPMENT GRADING:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to require proper planning and
execution of good grading layouts to ensure that the street grades, floor
elevations and lot grades are in proper relation to each other and to existing
topography, considering property protection, appeal and use.
B.   Design Considerations:
   1.   Nonresidential (Including Multi-Family): All roofs, paved areas, yards,
courts and courtyards shall drain into a storm sewer system or to an approved
place of disposal, not generally including existing streets. Site plans
detailing the layout and design of the stormwater runoff system shall be
submitted prior to site plan review by the planning commission or city
commission, or the issuance of a building permit and/or work order. All design
submittals shall detail the location and features of a proposed drainage
system. The submittals shall include, but not be limited to, grading plans,
drainage plans, utility plans and erosion control plans.
   2.   Residential (One-Family Or Two-Family Structures):
      a.   Requirements: In single-family residential, duplex or mobile home
developments, stormwater runoff from each dwelling lot may be discharged onto
flat areas, such as streets or lawns, if drainage is provided so that the
stormwater will flow away from the building. It shall remain the responsibility
of the builder/developer of a lot to ensure proper and prudent lot grading. The
builder/developer shall follow the grading plan established for that lot, or,
in the absence of such a plan, the builder/developer shall grade the lot
following the existing, natural drainage patterns for the area. In no case
shall a builder/developer direct, redirect or change the historic patterns of
the stormwater runoff.
      b.   Development Grading Plans: The submittal of a master development
grading plan shall be required as part of final plan submittal. The master
development grading plan shall incorporate, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (1)   Determine the type (front to rear, side to rear, rear to front,
etc.) of grading for each block, lot or portion of a development and indicate
the grading type for each area by identifying letter or drainage arrows.
         (2)   Determine the necessity for easements and other provisions
needed for satisfactory drainage and erosions control.
         (3)   Determine general grading limitations for local conditions, such
as minimum gradients for grass slopes and swale.
         (4)   For each area, determine the necessity for specific grading
limitations along a typical grading control line from street to the house and
determine the minimum street to floor rise (if applicable).
         (5)   For each development, determine reference elevations for key
points giving due consideration to street elevations and existing topography.
         (6)   The owner/developer shall provide a builder/developer with the
approved grading plan.
      c.   Building Permit Applicant:
         (1)   The permit applicant (builder) shall become familiar with the
various lot ending types proposed for a particular development.
         (2)   The builder shall submit along with the building permit
application, a detailed site plan showing the proposed grading by identifying
letter or drainage arrows.
         (3)   Establish key elevations or other referenced markers to the
grading type and anticipated stormwater runoff for the development area.
         (4)   Prior to finish grading, establish grade stakes as necessary and
check the entire lot for proper drainage according to the master grading plan.
(2010 Code § 22-159)
10-17-18: STORMWATER STORAGE:
A.   The use of stormwater storage basins in urbanizing areas does not
guarantee that downstream runoff peak flows will remain below their
predevelopment levels for a given rainfall event. Detention basins can be used
in an attempt to replicate the characteristics of natural infiltration,
storage, and the attenuation of flow that is lost through urbanization. The
objectives are to provide a volume of storage to compensate for that lost by
development of the land, and to control the detention basin discharge so that
the peak flow after urbanization remains below the preurban peak for a given
year.
B.   Although individual detention basins can meet the design objectives, the
downstream peak flow may actually increase due to the timing characteristics of
the resulting runoff within the watershed. Because of this "peak timing"
effect, certain areas of a watershed may be more effective than others, as
basin location sites, to control downstream peaks. (2010 Code § 22-159)
10-17-19: LOCATION CONSIDERATIONS FOR STORMWATER STORAGE:
A.   Design of stormwater storage facilities shall include an analysis of the
downstream effects on peak flows based upon the following drainage area
criteria:
   1.   Residential developments, including duplex and mobile home developments
of twenty (20) acres and larger, shall submit a model of the stormwater storage
outflow hydrograph.
   2.   Nonresidential and all other developments not included in subsection A1
of this section, of ten (10) acres and larger, shall submit a model of the
stormwater storage outflow hydrograph.
B.   Modeling of and routing of outflow hydrographs downstream shall be
required under criteria of subsection A of this section, and will be
accomplished through the use of HEC 1 and HEC 2, or equivalent computer
programs.
C.   The length of a stream reach requiring modeling shall be either: 1) to a
point where no increase in peak flow is demonstrated; or 2) to a point where an
increase in peak flow does not increase the depth of flooding.
D.   The storm events to be modeled shall be the 2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50- and 100-
year storm events.
E.   The city shall make available all existing data on stormwater flows from
sources such as master stormwater studies or flood insurance studies (FIS). An
engineer shall not be required to generate the files necessary for the modeling
requirements listed above. However, an engineer will be required to furnish any
information or computer software necessary for run to complete a peak flow
study when supplied with the flood study data files.
F.   In the event peak flow studies indicate a development cannot comply with
the criteria stated in subsection C of this section, then alternative methods
of stormwater runoff control may be required. Alternative methods may include,
but not be limited to, release of larger peak flows, decrease of peak flows
released, release of all or some certain storm events in lieu of detention,
and/or provides channel improvements in lieu of detention.
G.   The city commission shall review all stormwater storage studies and shall
implement the conditions of this section of these drainage standards. (2010
Code § 22-160)
10-17-20: DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR RAINFALL AND RUNOFF STORAGE:
A.   Scope: Retention and detention are two (2) general terms relating to types
of stormwater runoff storage that can be utilized to reduce the likelihood of
additional flooding due to development and the subsequent change in stormwater
runoff characteristics. Storage may be accomplished by the detention or
retention of water in reservoirs, parks, side channels or ponds, either on or
off site. Stormwater storage shall be required where proposed development will
be changing the natural state of the drainage area and subsequent stormwater
runoff.
B.   Definitions: The terms detention, retention and sedimentation basin shall
have the meanings used below:
   DETENTION FACILITY: A surface water runoff storage facility that is normally
dry but is designed to hold (detain) surface water temporarily during and
immediately after a runoff event.
   RETENTION FACILITY: A surface water runoff storage facility that always
contains (retains) a substantial volume of water to serve recreational,
aesthetic, water supply or other function. Surface water runoff is temporarily
stored above the normal stage during and immediately after runoff events.
   SEDIMENTATION BASIN: A surface water runoff storage facility intended to
trap suspended solids, suspended and buoyant debris, and absorbed or absorbed
potential pollutants which are carried by surface water runoff. The basin may
be part of an overall multipurpose stormwater drainage system.
C.   Sizing Of Facilities: The sizing of storage facilities shall be by an
approved method such as AFWA unit hydrograph, SCS, HEC 1, etc. All stormwater
storage facilities serving drainage areas four (4) acres and larger shall be
analyzed by routing an inflow hydrograph through the storage outlet structure
(s). All data, calculations and assumptions shall be provided in report form.
D.   Maximum Allowable Release Rates: The detention facility shall be designed
based upon the maximum allowable release rates. The release rates will be
established based upon natural state runoff characteristics from the
development site. A continuous probability or recurrence interval criterion
shall be used in designing the outlet control structure. As a minimum, the
outlet control structure shall be designed for the 2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50- and
100-year recurrence intervals. A single stage outlet control structure will not
be considered acceptable.
E.   Storage Facilities: When a combination of storage facilities are used to
control runoff, the system as a whole shall be designed with discharge rates in
accordance with subsection D of this section.
F.   Emergency Spillway: All facilities shall be provided with an emergency
spillway with scour protection. Earth embankments shall have side slopes not
steeper than four to one (4:1). Proper materials shall be specified with the
corresponding optimum compaction to provide stability and minimum seepage.
G.   Storage Volume Increase: The storage volume of a storage facility shall be
oversized ten percent (10%) to allow for sedimentation.
H.   Trickle Channel: All storage ponds shall be provided with a concrete paved
trickle channel from the inlet to the outlet structure to transmit low flows,
unless the flow line of the storage facility is entirely on rock.
I.   Erosion Control: Erosion control for storage and/or detention facilities
shall be in accordance with section
10-17-21, "Erosion And Sedimentation", of this chapter.
J.   Access Road: An all weather access road shall be provided to all storage
areas for maintenance purposes. For those owned and maintained by the city, the
access road shall be dedicated as part of the storage area.
K.   Dams And Embankments: Earth dams or other earth embankments shall be
designed by a licensed professional engineer in accordance with accepted
engineering practices to assure that dam or embankment failure will not occur.
Design criteria used by the soil conservation service in the selection of
materials and construction procedures will be acceptable.
L.   Ponds: Property line swale ponding and small on site ponds, if used, shall
be examined for possible adverse effects on building foundations due to
saturation of the subsoil.
M.   Parking Lot Storage: Parking lot storage shall be considered the last
alternative of providing required detention. The use of parking lots for
storage shall be well designed to minimize the potential damage and/or threat
to pedestrians and parked vehicles. In no case shall the depth of ponding in a
parking lot exceed six inches (6").
N.   Public Safety: Public safety of the detention pond and outlet works, both
in a passive condition and when functioning shall be addressed in design.
O.   Visual Amenity:
   1.   The detention facility shall be designed as a visual amenity consistent
with the existing topography and proposed development and should be designed
with multiuse potentials related to recreation taken into consideration.
   2.   The use of large unnatural depressions which disrupt the continuity of
the landscape shall be avoided. Length to width ratios should be investigated
in relation to depth of the proposed facility to improve the aesthetic
appearance of storage facilities. The geometric layout of detention facilities
shall be such that multipurpose use is available. All storage facilities shall
be provided with landscaping which includes the planting of trees and shrubs.
The use of evergreen and wetlands adaptable plantings should be incorporated to
improve the water quality of the storage runoff.
   3.   Outlet control facilities shall include headwalls and energy
dissipaters. The outlet facilities, as a visible part of any storage facility,
shall include landscape plantings to improve aesthetics and provide a more
pleasant and appealing appearance.
   4.   Detention facilities which are planned for dedication to the city shall
be reviewed by the parks and recreation department for proper recreational
layout and design. Landscaping of all facilities including access roads and
parking areas (storage facilities 3 acres and larger) shall be of sufficient
size and number to provide a parklike setting. (2010 Code § 22-161)
10-17-21: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide guidance in the design
of effective management of erosion and sedimentation, and to protect water
quality and the general health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
city. (2010 Code § 22-162)
B.   General Requirements:
   1.   Design, Installation And Maintenance: Development activity shall not be
conducted unless appropriate erosion and sedimentation facilities are designed,
installed and maintained throughout the life of the development.
   2.   Plans: All erosion and sediment control methods shall be indicated on
the final construction and/or building permit plans.
   3.   Sod And Vegetation: All earth slopes and earth areas, new or existing,
subject to erosion, such as, adjacent to trickle channels, inlet structures and
outlet structures, within any area designated for detention or drainage, shall
be slab sodded with Bermuda sod or have permanent established growth of
vegetation. All vegetation areas shall be fertilized, watered, and in an
established growing condition prior to completion or acceptance of any
stormwater drainage facility and/or development. (2010 Code § 22-163)
C.   Design Considerations:
   1.   General Design Principles: Practical combinations of the following
principles shall be utilized, as a minimum, in planning measures to be
installed for any land disturbing activity.
      a.   The land disturbing activity shall conform to existing topography
and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential.
      b.   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure of bare earth to
erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum through construction
scheduling and management.
      c.   Cut and fill operations should be kept to a minimum.
      d.   Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable.
      e.   Natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented
whenever feasible.
      f.   Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect
exposed critical areas during development.
      g.   Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control measures shall
be installed prior to final acceptance of developments, or as soon as seasonal
planting restrictions allow.
   2.   General Practice: Soil and water conservation measures include, but are
not necessarily restricted to, vegetation, sediment basins, dikes, grade
stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, diversions, waterways
or outlets, and riprap. Vegetative practices shall be applied to control
erosion. The practice can be either temporary and/or permanent, depending on
the site specific needs. (2010 Code § 22-164)
D.   Erosion And Sediment Control Criteria:
   1.   Long Term Permanent Seeding, Planting: Long term permanent seeding,
sprigging or planting which produces vegetative cover, including Bermuda grass,
Kentucky 31 tall fescue and weeping lovegrass shall be used to control erosion
on a permanent basis.
   2.   Short Term Temporary Seeding, Planting: Short term seeding, producing
temporary vegetative cover such as small grains like oats, rye and wheat, and
sudans and sorghums shall be used to control immediate erosion. This practice
effective for areas where soil is left exposed for a periods of six (6) to
twelve (12) months shall not be deemed permanent erosion control. Straw bale
dike may be utilized where no other practice is feasible, a temporary barrier
with a life expectancy of three (3) months or less can be installed across or
at the toe of a slope for the contributing drainage areas, in accordance with
the adopted standards. Hay and sod mulching, as a temporary measure, may be
used for embankment stabilization in areas where surface runoff is to be
directed down a slope. Erosion matting shall be used for channel embankment and
slope stabilization where a permanent erosion control cover has not been
established prior to use. The specified material shall be installed as
recommended by the manufacturer of the proposed material.
   3.   Construction Entrance: A stabilized construction entrance shall be
built in accordance with the adopted standards to reduce or eliminate the
tracking or flowing of sediment onto public right of way.
   4.   Outlet Structure: A concrete or stone outlet structure shall be
constructed in areas where the entire drainage area to the structure is not
stabilized or where there is a need to dispose runoff at a protected outlet or
where concentrated flow for the duration of the period of construction needs to
be diffused.
   5.   Grade Stabilization Structure: A grade stabilization structure in the
form of a paved chute or flume shall be constructed to prevent erosion, where
concentrated flow of surface runoff is to be conveyed down a slope of three
percent (3%) or greater.
   6.   Temporary Sediment Basins: Stormwater detention facilities may be used
temporary as sediment basins. A temporary outlet structure for the stormwater
detention facility to work as a sediment pond shall be constructed. At the end
of the construction activity, the developer shall remove all collected sediment
from the detention facility and outlet structure and return the facility to a
previous condition and/or to the approved cross sectional area. (2010 Code §
22-165)
CHAPTER 18
EARTH CHANGE PERMIT
SECTION:
10-18-1: Permit Required; Transferability
10-18-2: Conditions Attached To Permit
10-18-3: Application For Permit; Information Required
10-18-4: Expiration; Extension
10-18-5: As Built Drawings
10-18-6: Policies
10-18-7: Exemptions
10-18-8: Notice Of Noncompliance
10-18-9: Revocation Or Suspension; Stop Work Order
10-18-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; TRANSFERABILITY:
Unless specifically exempted, an earth change permit granted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be obtained from the city engineer prior to
the commencement of any excavating, grading, regrading, landfilling, berming or
diking of any property within the jurisdictional area of the city. A separate
permit shall be required for each separate, noncontiguous site or lot. No
permit shall be transferable without the prior written consent of the city
engineer. (2010 Code § 22-166; amd. 2012 Code)
10-18-2: CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO PERMIT:
Prior to granting any earth change permit, the city engineer shall attach such
conditions thereto as deemed reasonable and necessary in order to comply with
the purpose, policies and standards of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but shall not be limited to: submission of a drainage plan; specified
finished grade or land contours; mandatory installation of drainage facilities;
specified erosion and sediment control measures; furnishing any necessary
public easements; and a specified method and sequence for performing the work
thereby authorized. (2010 Code § 22-167)
10-18-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; INFORMATION REQUIRED:
A.   General Requirements: Unless exempted by the provisions of section
10-18-7 of this chapter, any person desiring to effect an earth change shall
file a written application for an earth change permit with the city engineer.
Any area affected by the earth change and within the jurisdictional area of the
city must be included in the permit application. Applications shall be in such
form and content as the city engineer shall establish, and shall be accompanied
by the payment of a permit fee in accordance with the fee schedule. The site
plan and design standards established by the applicant and approved by the city
engineer, or imposed by the city engineer, shall become conditions upon which
the earth change permit is issued. No change in an accepted plan or design
standard shall be made without prior written approval of the city engineer.
B.   Contents Of Permit Application:
   1.   Each earth change permit application shall contain the following
information:
      a.   The name and address of the legal owner of the property for which
the permit is requested;
      b.   A vicinity sketch and boundary line survey of the site for which the
permit is requested, including a legal description of such property;
      c.   Site drawings indicating each separate land area to be excavated,
filled, graded or leveled, the finished depth of each separate land cut or
fill, the present and future (as completed) points of entry and discharge for
surface water on the subject property, and identification of all temporary or
permanent structures or other devices to be erected or established for the
purpose of controlling or regulating surface water, erosion and sedimentation
on such property;
      d.   The applicant's plans for controlling on site erosion and off site
sedimentation for the purpose of preventing the deposit of sediment from the
lot or tract under application upon any other off site public or private
property or watercourse during all phases of project construction; and
      e.   The applicant's plans for receipt of surface water on the property
under consideration and discharge of surface water from this property during
periods of construction, and a statement specifying the anticipated time period
for the completion of all drainage improvements.
   2.   If the city engineer is unable to determine from the application
submitted that it meets the policies and standards governing the issuance of
the requested permit, the city engineer shall request the applicant, in
writing, to furnish such additional information which may be essential to such
determination.
C.   Duplication Of Information: No applicant for an earth change permit shall
be required to resubmit any documents, drawings or other information which was
previously submitted by such applicant in conjunction with the processing of
any drainage plan previously accepted by the city engineer. (2010 Code § 22-
168)
10-18-4: EXPIRATION; EXTENSION:
An earth change permit shall expire one year after the date it is issued. Earth
change permits may be extended for an additional year following review by the
city engineer. (2010 Code § 22-169)
10-18-5: AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
A.   As built drawings, clearly showing any changes from the approved earth
change permit, shall be submitted to the city engineer upon completion of
construction of the earth change. The as built drawings shall be reviewed by
the city engineer. If the submitted as built drawings cannot be accepted, the
applicant and certifying engineer, if one was used to obtain the permit, shall
be advised in writing of the reasons for their disapproval. As built drawings
must be accepted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and the
use or occupancy of a site, development or other improvement.
B.   The city engineer may waive the requirement for as built drawings on
minor, residential projects. However, such a waiver shall not relieve the
applicant from the responsibility of completing the earth change in accordance
with the accepted earth change permit. (2010 Code § 22-170)
10-18-6: POLICIES:
The issuance of earth change permits shall be governed by the following
policies of the city:
A.   Public Hazards: No earth change shall be permitted which creates a public
hazard upon any property within the city through the obstruction, impairment,
sedimentation, blockage or alteration of any drainage facility.
B.   Obstructions: No earth change shall be permitted which will channelize,
obstruct or impede any watercourse in a manner which is inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter, accepted best management practices and/or the city
drainage standards.
C.   Impeding Utility Easements: No earth change shall be permitted which will
impede the authorized use of a utility easement.
D.   Minimum Erosion: All earth changes shall be designed, constructed and
completed in a manner which minimizes erosion and loss of sediment from the
site.
E.   Earthmoving Activity: Earthmoving activity on individual tracts or lots
shall be conducted only if appropriate sedimentation facilities are installed
as the first step in the earthmoving process and continually maintained
throughout the construction period in accordance with the city drainage
standards.
F.   Plan Applicable: As may be applicable to any lot, parcel or tract of land
for which an accepted drainage plan exists, the requirements and conditions of
the drainage plan shall be incorporated as a condition to the issuance of any
earth change permit. (2010 Code § 22-171)
10-18-7: EXEMPTIONS:
An earth change permit shall not be required for the following activities:
A.   Bona fide agricultural and farming operations which constitute the
principal use of any lot or tract of ground in the jurisdictional area of the
city and which meet the requirements of the zoning code of the city.
B.   Customary and incidental routine grounds maintenance, landscaping and home
gardening which does not require a zoning use exception, a zoning variance or a
building permit, and which does not affect stormwater drainage entering or
leaving any private property or public right of way, utility easement or
drainage easement.
C.   Excavating and/or grading, and/or leveling, and/or landfilling of any lot
or tract of record whose size does not exceed one (1) acre and does not contain
any floodplain area, natural or manmade watercourse or drainage easements.
D.   Subject to the requirements of
7-2-9, B., emergency repairs made on public or private property which are
necessary for the preservation of life, health or property, and which are made
under such circumstances where it would be impossible or impracticable to
obtain an earth change permit.
(2010 Code § 22-172; amd. Ord. 501, 6-11-2024; Ord. 508, 10-8-2024)
10-18-8: NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE:
If at any time an earth change is performed which is not in accordance with
this chapter or an earth change permit, including all conditions and accepted
modifications thereof, a written notice of noncompliance shall be given by the
city engineer stating the nature and location of the alleged noncompliance, and
specifying what remedial steps are necessary to bring the project into
compliance. The responsible parties shall have such time as may be allowed, in
writing, by the city engineer to correct all noted deficiencies. The time
allowed shall be reasonable, and shall be determined by the nature of the
deficiency and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. If the
deficiency is not corrected to the satisfaction of the city engineer at the
expiration of the time allowance, then all, or portions of, the construction
activity on the site may be stopped in accordance with section
10-18-9 of this chapter. (2010 Code § 22-173)
10-18-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; STOP WORK ORDER:
A.   Revocation, Suspension: An earth change permit may be revoked or suspended
by the city engineer upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
   1.   Violation of any condition of the permit; or
   2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter or any other applicable law,
ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to the earth change permit; or
   3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or
creating a nuisance, hazard or endangering human life or property of others; or
   4.   Failure to bring the permitted area into compliance within the time
allowed on a notice of noncompliance previously issued.
B.   Stop Work Order: Upon the revocation of an earth change permit, the city
engineer shall issue a stop work order on all or part of the construction
activity on the permit holder's property, which may be directly or indirectly
related to site drainage and which is being performed pursuant to any permits,
licenses, franchises or contracts issued or approved by the city. Such order
may require a work stoppage on all construction activity on buildings or
structures and all appurtenances thereto, including building, electrical,
plumbing, mechanical, street work, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, gas lines,
and all utilities, including gas, electric, telephone and cable television.
C.   Notices, Orders: Notices and orders required by this section shall be
served upon the parties concerned, either personally or by certified mail,
addressed to the individual contracting party or parties and permit holder at
the address given on the contract document or permit application filed with the
city.
D.   Reinstatement: The city engineer may reinstate the earth change permit
upon determination that the permitted area is in compliance with all applicable
stormwater management and earth change requirements.
E.   Appeal: Rulings of the city engineer may be appealed in writing to the
planning commission. The planning commission must hold a public hearing within
ten (10) days of receipt of an appeal. After the public hearing, the planning
commission may reinstate the permit stating under what conditions the
reinstatement is valid. (2010 Code § 22-174)
 
