CITY CODE
of
PONCA CITY, OKLAHOMA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 6359, passed 5-27-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Ponca City, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 6359, passed May 27, 2025. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 6247
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND DESIGNATING THE CITY CODE OF PONCA CITY, 2017 (THE
"2017 CODE"); PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN PRIOR ORDINANCES; PROVIDING
THAT CERTAIN PRIOR ORDINANCES SHALL REMAIN IN FORCE; ACCEPTING THE PUBLISHER'S
AFFIDAVIT; DIRECTING THE CITY CLERK TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS; PROVIDING A
SUMMARY OF CONTENTS OF THE 2017 CODE AS REQUIRED BY 11 O.S. 2001, §§14-108(C)
AND 14-107(A); PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CITY OF PONCA CITY,
OKLAHOMA:
Section 1.   A doption and designation.
The ordinances and codes of a general and continuing character affecting the
public at-large of the City of Ponca City ("City"), having been compiled and
codified by the authority of the Ponca City Board of Commissioners pursuant to
the terms of a certain agreement entered into by and between the City and
Sterling Codifiers, Inc. of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho ("Sterling Codifiers"), are
hereby approved, adopted and ordained to be the code of ordinances of the City
upon the subjects therein set out and said ordinances shall be in full force
and effect from and after the date hereinafter specified. The code of
ordinances, consisting of Titles 1 - 12, each inclusive, is hereby adopted and
enacted as the "City Code of Ponca City, 2017," (the "2017 Code"), which Code
shall supersede all general and permanent ordinances of the City adopted on or
before September 1, 2017, through Ordinance No. 5977 to the extent provided in
Section 3 hereof.
Section 2.   Title 1 chapter 1 section 1 of the Ponca City Code shall be
amended to read
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Commissioners, this city code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Ponca
City. This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CITY CODE OF
PONCA CITY (2017), and is hereby published by authority of the board of
commissioners of the city of Ponca City, Oklahoma, and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents.
Section 3.   Repeal of prior ordinances.
All prior codified City ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on
or before September 1, 2017, and not included in the 2017 Code or recognized
and continued in force by reference therein and except as are preserved by
Section 4, are hereby repealed; and, in addition, all prior un-codified City
ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and permanent nature and enacted
prior to September 1, 2017, that conflict with the provisions of the 2017 Code
are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
Section 4.   Exclusions to repeal of prior ordinances.
That the repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not affect any of the
following:
   (a)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of such Code.
   (b)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by
the City.
   (c)   Administrative ordinances or resolutions of the Commission not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such Code.
   (d)   Any right or franchise granted by any ordinances of the City.
   (e)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
City.
   (f)   Any appropriation ordinances.
   (g)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes.
   (h)   The zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto.
   (i)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing grades in the City.
   (j)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor.
   (k)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
City.
   (l)   Any ordinance extending or contracting the boundaries of the City.
   (m)   Any ordinance prescribing the number, classification, or compensation
of any City officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith.
   (n)   Any ordinance declaring certain property to be a public nuisance and
authorizing procedures for the demolition of same.
   (o)   Any ordinance or resolution prescribing specific parking restrictions,
no parking zones, specific speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop
or yield intersections, or other specific traffic regulations.
   (p)   Any ordinance setting or establishing fees for licenses, permits,
utility services or any other services issued or performed by the City.
Section 5.   Repealer to not revive certain ordinances.
The repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive
any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 6.   Acceptance of the publisher's affidavit, City Clerk's certificate,
and entry of certain findings in official minutes of the Board of
Commissioners.
The City Clerk has certified to the Board of Commissioners that he has received
a publisher's affidavit from Sterling Codifiers, Inc., which is attached as
Exhibit "B" and incorporated and made a part hereof, and it is the finding of
the Board of Commissioners that the copies of the City Code of Ponca City,
2017, received from Sterling Codifiers, Inc., are true and correct copies of
the manuscript for said Code as authorized and said finding shall be entered in
the official minutes of the Board of Commissioners. The City Clerk's
certification is attached hereto as Exhibit "C."
Section 7.   Directions to City Clerk.
The City Clerk, upon publication of the 2017 Code by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
is hereby directed to take all actions necessary to comply with the provisions
of the Ponca City Charter and Article XIV of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes
concerning the codification of the ordinances of the City.
Section 8.   Summary of contents of 2017 Code.
As required by 11 O.S. 2011, § 14-108(C) and 14-107(A), the contents of the
2017 Code are hereby summarized as follows: [See Exhibit A, "Summary of
Contents of 2017 Code," attached to this Ordinance as adopted by the Ponca City
Board of Commissioners and on file in the Office of the Ponca City Clerk].
Section 9.   Effective date.
The provisions of Sections 1 through 7, inclusive, of this Ordinance shall take
effect on the 1st day of November 2017.
ORDAINED and PASSED by the Board of Commissioners of Ponca City, Oklahoma this
9th day of October, 2017.
SIGNED by the Mayor of the City of Ponca City on the 9th day of October, 2017.
ATTEST:
/s/      /s/   
Marc LaBossiere, City Clerk      Homer Nicholson, Mayor
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
/S/   
Michael Vanderburg, City Attorney
   EXHIBIT A
   SUMMARY OF CONTENTS OF 2017 CODE
Pursuant to the requirements of Title 11 O.S. §§ 14-108(C) and 14-107(A) the
title and a brief gist or summary of the provisions of the re-codified City
Code of Ponca City, as adopted by Ordinance of the Board of Commissioners
October 9, 2017, is hereby ordered published in conformity with the provisions
of said section and for the purpose of such publication a summary of the
provisions of said Code are hereby given as follows:
Table inset:
Title 1  Administration
Title 2  Departments
Title 3  Boards and Commissions
Title 4  Finances and Taxation
Title 5  Business Regulations
Title 6  Public Health and Safety
Title 7  Police Regulations
Title 8  Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Title 9  Public Ways and Properties
Title 10 Building Regulations
Title 11 Zoning Regulations
Title 12 Subdivision Regulations
 
CHARTER 1
 
Notes
  Editor's note:  The Charter of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma, was prepared
  and proposed by a board of freeholders composed of two members from each of
1 the five wards, chosen at the election held on the first day of April 1919,
  under and pursuant to the provisions of Article XVIII of the constitution of
  the State of Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND TERRITORY
Section 1. Incorporation.
All inhabitants of the City of Ponca City, Kay County, Oklahoma as the
boundaries and limits of the City are herein established, or may hereafter be
established, shall be a body politic and incorporated under and to be known by
the name and style of "The City of Ponca City," with such powers, rights,
privileges, duties and immunities as are herein and by the Constitution and
laws of the State of Oklahoma specifically or impliedly provided, fixed, given,
granted and invested, and such other and further powers, rights, privileges,
duties and immunities as are incident to and necessarily accompany those
specifically provided, fixed, given, granted and invested.
Section 2. Boundaries.
All limits to and boundaries of the City of Ponca City are hereby established
co-extensive with and coincident to the limits and boundaries as they exist at
the time of the adoption of the Charter.
Section 3. Additions.
Any territory adjoining the present or future boundaries of the City of Ponca
City may from time to time, in any shape or size desired, be admitted to and
become a part of said City as by law now or hereafter provided, or on
application made or written consent given to the City by the owner or owners of
the said land, or on the application made or written consent given by a
majority of the legal voters residing upon the land proposed to be admitted. In
all such cases the territory so added shall be described by metes and bounds in
the ordinance admitting, assenting to the admission or of accepting the land
proposed to be admitted; and thereupon the inhabitants of the territory so
admitted shall acquire and thereafter, equally with the inhabitants of the
original municipal territory, hold all of the powers, rights, privileges,
duties and immunities specifically or impliedly provided, fixed, given,
granted, and invested by the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma and
by this Charter and all ordinances of the City of Ponca City.
Section 4. Platting.
Should any property lying within the City limits as established by this
Charter, hereafter be platted into lots and blocks, such platting shall so
conform to the adjoining platted land that the streets, alleys, avenues and
public ways shall coincide, and the proposed plat before the same is filed for
record, shall be submitted to and approved by the City Engineer. The City shall
never be required to pay any sum for any street, alley, avenue or public way,
but when any such plat is filed all of the streets, alleys, avenues and public
ways shown thereon shall immediately become the property of the City for use as
public highways, and may be cared for and used as such.
ARTICLE II. POWERS OF THE CITY
Section 5. General powers.
The City of Ponca City shall have perpetual succession; may use a common seal;
may sue and be sued; may implead and be impleaded in all courts and places; may
contract and be contracted with; may take, hold, use, acquire and receive
property, real and personal, for the use, benefit and in trust for the
inhabitants thereof and when such property or any of it is no longer useful or
beneficial, may sell the same and convey the title thereto, may perform and
render all public services; may condemn and acquire by condemnation, property
for public use when the same shall be necessary for such; provided, that in
each and every instance adequate compensation shall be made to the person or
persons whose property is so taken or injured, and provided further, that the
manner and procedure of such condemnation, taking and compensation shall be
according to that specified by the laws of the State of Oklahoma for such at
the time thereof.
Section 6. General welfare.
The City of Ponca City shall have power to enact and enforce all ordinances for
the protection of the life, health and property of the inhabitants; to prevent
and summarily abate and remove nuisances, both public and private; to provide
and preserve and enforce good government; and to do and provide for the doing
of all things which may be proper and necessary for the promotion of the
general welfare of the inhabitants.
Section 7. Reservation of powers.
The enumeration of general and particular powers herein shall never be held or
construed to be a circumscription of or limitation upon any powers whenever or
wherever elsewhere provided, fixed, given, granted, invested or implied, it
being the intention by the proposition and adoption of the Charter to reserve
and confer upon the inhabitants of the City of Ponca City the entire right,
full powers and unrestricted privileges of self-government; such right, power
and privilege, however, to be held and exercised conformably with and not
violative of the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma.
Section 8. Additional powers.
The City of Ponca City shall have power to make all proper regulations
concerning keepers of inns, hotels, taverns, rooming houses and other public
places, draymen, horse drivers, jitney drivers, hack drivers, automobile
drivers, omnibus drivers, and to fix maximum rates for the transportation of
goods and persons within the City to prevent extortion, to preserve order, and
to avoid confusion.
Section 9. Gambling.
To suppress gambling houses, games of chance and lotteries, and to punish
persons found guilty of gambling, selling pools, and conducting or having to do
with lotteries.
Section 10. Bread and milk.
To provide for the regulation of and to regulate bakeries and to prescribe and
fix the weight, quantity and price of bread sold within the City; to provide
for the inspection of and to inspect any and all milk sold or offered for sale
within the City and to fix a maximum retail price therefor; to condemn, destroy
and prohibit the sale of any and all bread or milk found unfit for human
consumption; and to fix and collect the fees for such regulation and
inspection.
Section 11. Animals and fowl at large.
To restrain, regulate and prohibit the running at large of horses, mules,
cattle, sheep, swine, goats, and other animals, and chickens, geese, ducks,
turkeys, pigeons, and other fowl and authorize and provide for the impounding
and restraining of the same, and to order their sale, or destruction when they
cannot be sold, and to provide for the imposition and infliction of penalties
upon the owners thereof for the violation of any ordinances imposing such
restraint, regulation or prohibition.
Section 12. Dogs.
To provide for the taxation of and to tax dogs and to regulate, restrain and
prohibit their running at large, and to impose penalties upon the owners
thereof for the violation of any ordinance imposing such taxation, regulation,
restraint, or prohibition.
Section 13. Firecrackers and roller skates.
To regulate, restrain and prohibit the rolling of hoops, flying of kites,
firing firecrackers and pyrotechnics and the use of velocipedes, roller skates,
bicycles, slingshots and any and every other thing the use of which tends to
annoy persons or frighten horses.
Section 14. Whistles and other noises.
To regulate, restrain and prohibit the ringing of bells, blowing of horns,
bugles and whistles, and the crying of sales, ballyhooing of shows, and any and
all other noises or disturbances which tend to annoy persons or cause them to
congregate upon the streets.
Section 15. Mendicants.
To restrain and prohibit mendicants, beggars and other persons of infirm and
maimed bodies or suffering from diseases of any kind, from soliciting alms,
help or assistance within the City, and to prescribe a penalty for the
violation of any ordinance imposing such restraint or prohibition.
Section 16. (Disapproved by the Governor.)
Section 17. Driving animals through streets.
To regulate and prohibit the driving of cattle, horses, mules and other animals
through the streets, alleys, avenues and public ways within the City.
Section 18. Profanity and disturbance of the peace.
To prevent all trespasses and breaches of the peace, assaults, batteries,
fighting, quarreling, profanity, boisterousness, insults, and other disorderly
conduct, and to punish all persons thus offending.
Section 19. Abandoned right of way.
To require all steam or street railway companies owning or having control of
tracks within the City, which tracks may be abandoned, to remove such tracks at
their own expense and to repair and restore at their own expense the street or
way upon which such abandoned track or tracks are located, so that the part so
occupied by the said company shall be in the same condition as the other part
of said street or way.
Section 20. Horse racing.
To suppress, prevent and prohibit horse racing and dangerous riding or driving
within the City.
Section 21. Cruelty to animals.
To prevent and prohibit the cruel treatment of animals and provide punishment
for and punish those guilty of such cruelty.
Section 22. Hitching horses.
To compel persons to fasten their horses or other animals within the City,
whether such animals are attached to vehicles, standing in the streets, or
otherwise.
Section 23. Undesirables.
To restrain and punish vagrants, vagabonds, vice-venders, pimps, prostitutes
and panderers.
Section 24. Drugs.
To regulate, prohibit and control the keeping, sale and use of cocaine, opium,
morphine, and other drugs, and the salts, compounds and derivatives thereof,
and prescriptions therefor.
Section 25. Disease and danger.
To authorize or direct the destruction of clothing, bedding, furniture, places,
things and buildings infected with the germs of any communicable disease, and
authorize or direct the destruction of any building, part thereof, or other
object, after the same shall have become a nuisance and dangerous to the health
or safety or lives of the inhabitants of the City.
Section 26. Quarantine.
To make and enforce regulations to prevent the introduction of communicable
diseases into the City and to make and enforce provisions for quarantine within
the City and at any place or places without the City and within five miles of
the limits thereof.
Section 27. Theaters and dance halls.
To permit, forbid and regulate theaters, dance halls and dances therein and
other places of amusement.
Section 28. Dram shops.
To prohibit dram shops, saloons, and other places where intoxicating liquors
are sold, to declare such places nuisances and to abate them.
Section 29. Bawdy houses.
To prohibit and abolish bawdy houses and to punish the keepers and inmates
thereof; to prevent and suppress the keepers of houses of assignation and
common resort, and punish the keepers and frequenters thereof; and to declare
any building or place used as a bawdy house, house of assignation or place of
common resort, a nuisance and, upon proof that the owner thereof knew that the
same was being used as such house or place, to confiscate the same.
Section 30. (Disapproved by the Governor.)
Section 31. Prize fights.
To prohibit and prevent prize fights, cockfights and dogfights; to regulate
boxing matches and sparring exhibitions and to provide for and inflict
punishment upon any and all persons guilty of violating such prohibition and
regulation.
Section 32. Firearms.
To regulate and prohibit the carrying of firearms and other weapons and to
provide and inflict punishment therefor as is now or may be hereafter provided
by the laws of the State of Oklahoma for a violation of such regulation or
prohibition.
Section 33. Vagabonds and recalcitrants.
To provide workhouses and work places for City convicts who are unable or who
refuse to pay any fine or costs assessed against them or who have been
sentenced to imprisonment in the City prison; and provide for the working of
and to work such convicts upon the streets, alleys, public ways and public
grounds.
Section 34. Prison.
To provide and maintain a prison for the incarceration and retention of persons
arrested and waiting trial, and persons who have been convicted of offenses,
and to make and enforce any and all regulations concerning the care and keeping
of such persons, and the said prison.
Section 35. Nuisance.
To define what shall be determined nuisances within the City and within one
mile outside of the City limits; to abate such nuisances either summarily or by
process; and to provide punishment for and inflict punishment upon the makers
or keepers thereof.
Section 36. Vehicles.
To regulate the use of automobiles, motor cars, motorcycles and other power-
driven vehicles, the speed and lighting thereof, the licensing of the same, and
permits to persons for the driving and use thereof, and to prohibit the use of
power-driven vehicles except by the holders of such permits; subject however to
the right of the state exclusively to tax same.
Section 37. Steam boilers.
To control the location and regulate the use of steam boilers and steam
engines, prescribe the qualifications of persons as keepers or engineers
thereof, to issue permits therefor to persons found to have such
qualifications, and to provide and enforce such rules and regulations for the
keeping, running and use of boilers and engines as shall be deemed proper for
the protection of life, health and safety of persons and the safeguarding of
property.
Section 38. Construction.
To inspect buildings in course of construction and the condition of all
buildings already constructed, prescribe and enforce regulations relative
thereto, and fix and collect fees for such inspection.
Section 39. Poles.
To regulate the length, height and strength of all telephone, telegraph,
electric light and other poles, to prohibit the location, and enforce the
removal thereof.
Section 40. Reformatory.
To provide for the establishment of and to establish, maintain and regulate a
house or place of correction and reformation for youthful criminals and
delinquents.
Section 41. (Disapproved by the Governor.)
Section 42. Wires.
To regulate the location and prohibit the placing of telephone, telegraph,
electricity-conducting, and other wires, and to require at any time that such
wires be removed, changed or that they be placed underground.
Section 43. Keeping animals.
To provide for the regulation of and to regulate and prohibit the keeping of
cows, swine, goats, sheep, dogs, and all other animals, and chickens, geese,
ducks, turkeys, pigeons, and all other fowl, within the City limits or any
specified parts thereof.
Section 44. Vitalizing provision.
To enact such substantive and remedial ordinances, adopt such resolutions,
establish such rules, and provide such measures as shall be necessary for or
convenient in giving execution and effect to the Charter and to each and every
part, portion and provision thereof.
ARTICLE III. OFFICERS
Section 45. Qualifications.
Every person elected to, or named to fill an unexpired term of an elective
office of the City of Ponca City must be a qualified elector of the City of
Ponca City at the time he is inducted into office. Every appointed officer must
be a qualified elector, or become a qualified elector of the City of Ponca City
at the time of his induction into office or as soon thereafter as is permitted
under the laws of the State of Oklahoma to so become such elector. Every such
elective or appointive officer must, before entering upon the discharge of his
duties, take the official oath prescribed by the constitution of the state of
Oklahoma and such additional oath or oaths as the board of commissioners may
from time to time prescribe. Should any such officer cease to be or fail to
qualify as an elector of the city of Ponca City, as aforesaid, or to possess
any other qualifications elsewhere prescribed or required of him, such fact
shall operate as a vacation of his office, and he shall not thereafter perform
any of the duties incident thereto, except that should any such officer move
from one precinct to another precinct within the city of Ponca City this fact
shall not disqualify said officer. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 46. Officer Defined.
The term "officer" shall apply only to those in elective offices and to the
following appointive offices: city manager, city treasurer, city clerk, city
judge (or his substitute), city attorney, chief of police, chief of fire
department, superintendent of water and light department, and such of their
assistants or other heads of departments and their assistants as the board of
commissioners may, from time to time, by proper ordinance, cause to be so
classified. The term "officer" as herein used, shall not include policemen,
other than the chief, and shall not include employees or agents other than
those above provided. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 47. Official Bonds.
Each and every officer and employee, before he enter(s) upon the discharge of
the duties of his office, shall make a good and sufficient bond, condition[ed]
upon the faithful and efficient performance of his official duties, such bond
to run in favor of the city of Ponca City and to be approved by the board of
commissioners. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 48. Graft.
No officer, employee, agent or servant of the city of Ponca City shall ever
take, accept or receive, either directly or indirectly any fee, money,
emolument, gift, compensation, reward, gratuity, or anything of value or
otherwise, except the official salary, for or because of the performance or
non-performance of any of the duties of his office or any action or failure to
act in regard or incident thereto. Any officer, employee, agent or servant who
shall violate either the letter or spirit of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be fined in a sum of not less
than one hundred or more than one thousand dollars, and imprisoned in the
county jail for a period of not less than thirty days or more than one year,
and the fact of such violation shall operate as a vacation of his office and he
shall not thereafter perform any of the duties incident thereto. (Approved 3-
17-1920)
Section 49. Board Of Commissioners.
All powers conferred on or reserved to the city of Ponca City and/or the
inhabitants thereof shall, unless otherwise provided in the charter, be
exercised by five commissioners, to be known as and designated by the term
"board of commissioners", each and all of whom shall be elected by the
qualified electors of the city of Ponca City at large and one of whom shall be
known as mayor, as provided herein. The mayor and other members of the board of
commissioners shall be conservators of the peace and shall at all times and
places and under all circumstances and in every event, protect, defend and
maintain each and all of the rights, privileges and immunities of the city and
inhabitants thereof. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 50. Board Created.
There is hereby created a board of commissioners to consist of five electors of
the city, one of them shall be elected as mayor, all shall hold office for a
term of three years or until their successors are elected and qualified, except
that the commissioners and mayor serving at the time this section becomes
effective shall serve their unexpired terms. The terms of office of all
commissioners will expire as follows: The mayor on March 1, 2007; commission
positions 1 and 3 on March 1, 2005; and commission positions 2 and 4 on March
1, 2006. On the second Tuesday in February of 2007, and each three years
thereafter there shall be elected a mayor; and on the second Tuesday in
February, 2005, and each three years thereafter there shall be elected
commissioners to positions 1 and 3; and on the second Tuesday in February,
2006, and each three years thereafter, there shall be elected commissioners to
positions 2 and 4. The mayor and all commissioners shall qualify and assume the
duties of their respective offices on March 1 after their election, or within a
reasonable time in the event a run-off election is necessary. In any year when
a presidential preferential primary is held in February, then the elections
above referenced shall be held on the same day as the presidential preferential
primary. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 51. Powers Of Board And Division Of Duties.
All the powers of the city except such as are by law vested in the board of
education and except as otherwise provided by charter or by the constitution of
the state, are hereby vested in the board of commissioners; and, except as
otherwise prescribed by the charter or by the constitution of the state, the
board of commissioners may by ordinance or resolution, prescribe the manner in
which any power of the city shall be exercised. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 52. Mayor.
The mayor shall cause the enforcement of all laws and ordinances of the city
and the resolutions and orders of the board of commissioners; and he shall
perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners
not inconsistent herewith. He shall preside at all meetings of the board of
commissioners when present, and shall sign all ordinances, contracts and other
instruments on behalf of the city and shall have the power to administer oaths.
All legal papers provided by the laws of the state to be served on the mayor of
a municipality shall be served on the mayor, or upon the acting mayor if the
latter is functioning under the provisions of section 60, or, if neither the
mayor nor the acting mayor is available within the city for service, upon some
other commissioner present and available. The proof of service upon one other
than the mayor shall state the grounds which made such service appropriate and
necessary. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 53. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 54. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 55. Mayor, Additional Duties.
The mayor shall perform the following duties and have the following powers: He
shall preside at all meetings of the board of commissioners when present, sign
all contracts and other instruments requiring the assent of the city, and have
power to administer oaths. All legal papers now provided by the laws of the
state to be served on the mayor of a municipality shall be served on the mayor,
and in his absence on the acting mayor, and in the absence of both, on another
commissioner. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 56. Assumption Of Duties, Time Required Of Commissioners.
Each commissioner shall devote so much of his/her time as may be necessary for
the efficient transaction of the business and affairs of the city as provided
by the charter. Whenever any person elected to the office of mayor or
councilman neglects, refuses, or fails to qualify within ten days of the
beginning of the term for which (s)he has been chosen, or whenever the mayor or
a councilman neglects, refuses, or fails, except in case of sickness, to attend
the meetings of the council for seven consecutive regular meetings without
first having the consent of the council, which consent must be entered upon its
records, or removes from the city, is convicted of or pleads "no contest" to a
felony or becomes mentally incompetent as defined by statute, the council shall
declare that a vacancy exists in such office and shall proceed to call an
election to fill such vacancy at which election a person shall be elected to
serve out any unexpired term in such office. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved
at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 57. Employees To Make Reports.
The board of commissioners of the city of Ponca City may request a report in
writing at any time from any officer or employee of the city, whereupon such
officer or employee shall forthwith make such report. (as amended January 14,
1974)
Section 58. (as amended January 14, 1974)
Section 59. Bonds Of Commissioners.
The mayor and each other member of the board of commissioners shall, before he
enters upon the discharge of the duties of his office, execute in favor of the
city of Ponca City a good and sufficient bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars conditioned upon the faithful performance of all the duties of his
office, such bonds to be approved by the county judge of Kay County, Oklahoma,
and thereafter filed with the city clerk of the city; and any elector may bring
an action at any time in the proper court for the purpose of exacting or
enforcing the penalty of such bond; provided that should such action fail from
any cause the elector so bringing the same shall immediately pay to the officer
giving such bond all of the expenses incurred by such officer in defending such
action; and provided further, that with the petition filed in said action there
shall be tendered to and filed with the court clerk of Kay County and subject
to his approval a bond in the sum of five hundred dollars the condition of
which shall be the payment when due of the restitution money above provided to
be paid. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 60. Vice Mayor.
At such time as the mayor or commissioners elected in the spring elections
assume their positions, the board of commissioners shall elect by majority
ballot one of their number as vice mayor, and the commissioner so elected shall
be invested with all of the powers and be charged with performance of all of
the duties of the mayor at all times, places and events whenever the mayor from
any cause or by any reason is unable to act. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved
at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 61. Vacancy In Office Of Mayor Or Commissioner.
Should a vacancy occur in the office of mayor or any of the commissioners, the
board of commissioners shall immediately call an election for filling the
vacant position. Provided, that should such vacancy occur within ninety days of
the next general election, no election to fill the vacancy shall be held but
the position shall be filled by the results of the general election. (Res.
5441, 12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 62. Powers Of Board Of Commissioners.
The board of commissioners shall have control and supervision over all
departments of the city except as herein otherwise provided, and to that end
shall have power to make and enforce such rules and regulations as they may see
fit and proper for and concerning the organization, management and operation of
all the departments of the city and whatever agencies may be created for the
administration of its affairs. Except as otherwise provided in this charter,
they shall have power to create such offices as they deem necessary for a
prudent and successful administration of the affairs of the city, and to fix,
allow, and pay salaries of the persons appointed thereto, and may delegate the
administrative and executive duties, rights and functions to one person who
shall be known as city manager, provided that the term of any office so created
by them shall never exceed the period of one year, and they shall have power to
abolish at any time any such office and terminate the official duties and
relations of the person occupying the same. The mayor shall propose and submit
to the board of commissioners nominations for all offices created by said
board, and such nominations shall be subject to confirmation by a majority vote
of the board. In the event any such nomination by the mayor shall fail of
confirmation by the board, nominations for such positions may be made by any
member of the board of commissioners, subject to confirmation by the board. In
the event no nomination is confirmed, the board, by majority action shall make
a temporary appointment of an officer pro tempore to discharge the duties of
said positions until a nominee of the mayor or commission member is confirmed.
(as amended January 14, 1974; July 9, 1991)
Section 63. Meetings Of Board Of Commissioners.
The board of commissioners shall meet in regular session at the city hall, or
such other place as shall have been designated by ordinance, at least once
every two weeks, to give consideration to and take action upon all business
which may lawfully come before them. A majority of said board shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of such business, but no action of said board
shall be effective unless upon the affirmative vote of a majority of such board
and no ordinance shall be passed or become effective until the same shall have
regularly received the affirmative votes of at least three members of the board
cast in open session. Special meetings may be called at any time by the mayor
or by any four members of the board, to consider such matters only as shall be
specified in the call for said special meeting, but no special meeting shall be
held until after twenty four hours' notice thereof in writing shall have been
given to or waived in writing by at least four members of the board. (as
amended January 14, 1974)
Section 64. Report Of Mayor.
The mayor shall from time to time make such recommendations as he shall deem to
be for the welfare of the city, and on the first Monday in June of each year or
so soon thereafter as practicable, submit to the board a record of the receipts
of the city for the year then last past and an estimate of the needs and
expenses of the city for the year next ensuing.
The head of each department of the city government shall make a written report
to the mayor not later than the last day of April in each year, showing the
operations of such department for the preceding year. These reports shall be a
part of the mayor's report to the board of commissioners. The mayor shall also
make such recommendations to the board of commissioners concerning the increase
or decrease of departmental estimates as in his judgment may best serve the
interests of the city. He shall also submit an estimate for a special
contingent fund for the current year. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 65. Appropriations.
The board of commissioners shall on the second Monday in June, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, appropriate such sums of money, respectively, for
each of the various departments of the city government as they deem necessary
for the maintenance and operation thereof during the ensuing year. In addition
to the department appropriations herein provided for, the board shall also make
appropriation for contingent purposes as may be deemed necessary. The
appropriation herein provided for shall be based upon estimates submitted by
the mayor in his report, provided the same shall have been submitted to the
board as herein required.
In making up the allowance for any year the board of commissioners shall first
make provision for the payment of the interest and for the creation, setting
aside and preservation of a sinking fund upon all of the outstanding
indebtedness of the city and shall then make appropriations as the remaining
revenues of the city may justify, to be appropriated among the respective
departments or appropriated for such other public uses as the board of
commissioners may deem proper; provided however, that in no case shall the
entire appropriations so made, including interest and sinking fund on the
bonding debt, and appropriations for all other public uses and purposes, ever
exceed the estimated available resources for the fiscal year, which estimate
shall be based upon the probable revenue of the city derived from ad valorem
taxes upon the basis of the total valuation of property for taxation for the
preceding year, and of such other contingent revenue of the city as shall
probably accrue. It shall be deemed malfeasance for the board of commissioners
to make any appropriations the sum total of which shall exceed the estimated
available or probable revenues for any fiscal year.
Unless otherwise provided by the charter and by ordinance passed hereunder, all
property in the city liable to taxation shall be assessed in accordance with
the provisions of general laws of the state so far as the same apply.
The board of commissioners shall have the management and control of the
finances of the city except as otherwise herein provided. They shall have the
power to appropriate money for the payment of debts and expenses; to provide by
ordinance special funds for special purposes under the provisions of the
charter and to make the same disbursable only for such purposes; to provide by
resolution for the payment of any existing and outstanding indebtedness as
appropriated and for the payment of any bonds that may from time to time be
issued, and shall for such purposes have the power to levy, assess and provide
for the collection of special taxes.
The board of commissioners shall have the power to fund or refund by ordinance
the whole or any part of the existing debts of the city, or any further debt,
by acquiring and cancelling the evidence thereof and to issue other bonds in
lieu thereof, either registered or coupon, bearing interest at a rate not
greater than the original indebtedness, and to this end may apply the sinking
fund belonging to any series of bonds so refunded, and may pay and retire any
bond by using the sinking fund thereof. (as amended April 6, 1993)
Section 66. (Disapproved by the governor.)
Section 67. Rules Of The Board - Judge Of Qualifications.
The board of commissioners shall provide such rules and regulations for its
government and order of business as the members may deem proper. Except for
issues of election and voter irregularities and recount of votes for elections
conducted by the county election board and for which jurisdiction to review
shall reside with the district court and the election board, the board shall be
the judge of the qualifications and election of its members, including the
mayor, and shall have authority to correct the results which may have been
theretofore announced, if there be a contest of the right to any office voted
upon at the next preceding election and written notice of such contest has been
given it by an opposing candidate within ten days after such election shall
have been held. The mayor, municipal judges or the city clerk shall have
authority to administer all oaths proper in the conduct of the municipal
affairs and government of the city. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved at
referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 68. Vacancies In Office.
Should a vacancy occur in any office, place or position, except in the office
of mayor, the same shall be filled as provided in section 62 of the charter.
The person appointed to fill any vacancy as provided in this section shall
perform the duties of said office during the unexpired term thereof. (as
amended January 14, 1974)
Section 69. Offices Of City Manager, City Attorney, City Clerk And City
Treasurer.
The offices of city manager, city attorney, city clerk and city treasurer are
hereby created. The city manager, city attorney, city clerk, city treasurer and
such other offices as shall from time to time be created by the board shall be
appointed the first meeting in September annually according to the procedure
provided in section 62 of the charter of the city of Ponca City, such officers
to serve for a term of one year and until their successors are appointed and
qualified. (Ord. 4927, § 1, 1-30-1978, approved at referendum 4-4-1978)
Section 70. City Attorney, Duties.
The city attorney shall represent and care for the interests of the city in all
litigation and controversies to which the city may be a party; approve or
reject as to form all proposed ordinances before they shall be adopted; draft
all proposed ordinances granting franchises; inspect and report his opinion
upon all papers, instruments, documents and contracts in which the city may be
interested; give legal advice and assistance to any and every officer of the
city, when called upon so to do, with respect to any legal question involving
any official duty or other matter of interest or moment to the city; and
perform any and all other duties which may from time to time be assigned to him
by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall have authority
to appoint and remunerate such assistants to the city attorney as may be deemed
necessary. If it shall be brought to the attention of the city attorney that
any person, firm or corporation exercising a franchise or privilege from the
city has been guilty of any violation of the terms or conditions thereof, or
has failed to comply in any material respect with the provisions thereof, it
shall be his duty to make a complete report of the matter to the board of
commissioners. If the board shall determine that such report is well founded it
shall become the immediate duty of the city attorney to take such action as may
be necessary and proper with respect thereto, and if there shall have been a
flagrant violation of the terms or conditions of the franchise or privilege,
the city attorney shall institute a suit in the proper court for the purpose of
obtaining a judgment of forfeiture of the said franchise or privilege.
Section 71. City Clerk, duties.
The City Clerk shall have the custody of all the ordinances, books and records
of the City. It shall be his duty to examine in detail all bills, accounts and
claims against the City, and endorse upon each his approval thereof; he shall
be the chief accountant of the City and keep or supervise the keeping of all
its books, accounts and transactions; he shall keep a detailed record of all
receipts and disbursements of money, and at least once in each month shall
examine the books of account of all the officers of the City charged with the
receipt or disbursement of money and report to the Board of Commissioners the
nature of his findings and conclusions. He shall ascertain and report to the
Board of Commissioners whether any expenditure made or proposed to be made by
the City is excessive either in price of the thing purchased or proposed to be
purchased, the computation of the charge therefor, or the regularity of the
appropriation for its purchase. He shall make a monthly report to the Board of
his official conduct.
Before the City Clerk shall enter upon the discharge of the duties of his
office he shall give a good and sufficient bond in the sum of Two Thousand Five
Hundred Dollars conditioned upon the faithful discharge of all the duties of
his office, such bond to be made in favor of the City. The Board of
Commissioners shall have power to require of the City Clerk at any time during
his term of office a bond in excess of the amount herein provided, should the
interests and proper protection of the monies of the City and the trust funds
coming into his hands justify the same in the discretion of said Board. The
City Clerk shall act as clerk to the Board of Commissioners, shall be present
at all their meetings, and do and perform all of the duties in relation thereto
as may be prescribed by the Board.
Section 72. City Treasurer, duties.
The City Treasurer shall receive, care for, safely keep and properly pay out of
all funds of the City, except such trust funds as may be by law confided to the
other officers of the City. He shall make and file with the Board of
Commissioners a monthly account and report setting forth all the transactions
of his office. Before he enter(s) upon the discharge of the duties of his
office he shall give a good and sufficient bond in favor of the City in the sum
of not less than Five Thousand Dollars and in such greater sum or sums as the
Board of Commissioners may from time to time require, conditioned upon the
faithful discharge and performance of all the duties of his office.
Section 73. Municipal Court and Judge.
A Municipal Court is hereby established for the City of Ponca City and there is
hereby created the office of Municipal Judge.
The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Municipal Judge at the same time and
for the same term as provided in the Charter for City Clerk, City Attorney and
City Treasurer, who shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine all
complaints of offenses against the ordinances of the City and who shall keep a
docket in which he shall enter every cause commenced before him. In all cases
prosecuted in the Municipal Court, all procedure(s), including appeals, shall
be the same as that provided by the laws of the State of Oklahoma for trials in
and appeals from municipal courts.
In all offenses charged before the Municipal Court the accused shall be
entitled to release on an appearance bond until trial, in such an amount as may
be fixed and subject to the approval by the Municipal Judge, and all
forfeitures of bonds, including appeal and appearance bonds shall be enforced
by appropriate actions to be instituted by the City Attorney. All monies
collected in such proceedings shall be paid into the City Treasury.
In all actions in the Municipal Court there shall be taxed as costs against the
accused, and collected from him as in the cases of fines, such sum or sums upon
pleas of guilty or upon convictions after trial as may now or may hereafter be
provided by ordinances, and all sums collected shall be paid into the City
Treasury.
The Board of Commissioners is hereby vested with power to remit fines and to
grant pardons in all cases arising out of conviction in the Municipal Court.
Section 74. Police.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to establish and maintain a City
Police Department, including a Chief of Police, and to appoint such policemen
as it shall deem necessary.
Section 75. Qualifications of policemen.
No person shall be eligible to appointment, or be appointed or serve as a
policeman or officer of police to the City of Ponca City who shall have been
convicted of any offense, the punishment for which may be confinement in the
State Penitentiary; nor shall any person be appointed who is not shown to be of
good character, or who cannot read and write the English language, or who does
not possess ordinary physical strength and courage. All policemen and firemen
of the City of Ponca City shall hold their position during good behavior and
shall not be removed from the same except for such cause as renders them unfit
to remain in the service of the City, and after written notice, giving the
grounds for such discharge or removal and an opportunity to be heard on such
charges or reasons.
Section 76. Salaries of officers.
The Board of Commissioners shall fix the salaries of all other officers and
employees, agents and servants of the City. The salaries of the Chief of
Police, other policemen and officers of police, and of the Municipal Judge
shall be their sole and only compensation and the compensation of such officers
shall never be contingent upon arrests made, or upon the number thereof, or
upon convictions had. The compensation of all officers of the City shall be
definitely fixed at the beginning of their terms, and such compensation shall
not be increased or diminished during such term. The members of the Board of
Commissioners shall serve without compensation or pay, and they shall not have
power to provide any pay or compensation for themselves.
Section 77. Mayor chief executive officer.
The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City, with all the
rights, powers and duties appertaining therein. He shall be entitled to vote
upon all questions, ordinances, rules, regulations and matters that may be
submitted to or acted upon by said Board. (as amended January 14, 1974)
ARTICLE IV. FRANCHISES
Section 78. Franchises required for use of public highway for certain purpose.
No street, alley or public highway in the City of Ponca City shall ever be used
by any person, firm or corporation for the construction or operation of a
street railway, telegraph line, telephone system or any other business of a
public or quasi-public nature, without obtaining authority therefor under a
franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of the Charter. It shall be
the duty of the Board of Commissioners and the City Attorney to bring suit
against any person, firm or corporation violating the terms hereof for the
purpose of ejecting the offender from the occupancy of such property, and to
recover damages for the illegal use thereof.
Section 79. Control and use of streets inalienable, exceptions.
The ownership, right of control and use of the streets, highways, alleys,
parks, public places and all other real property of the City are hereby
declared to be inalienable to said City except by a franchise or easement
therefor, granted as hereinafter provided; and no franchise or easement
involving the right to use the same, either along, across, over or under, shall
ever be valid, unless expressly granted and exercised in compliance with the
terms hereof and of the act granting the same. No act of omission of the City,
its Board of Commissioners, officers or agents shall be construed to confer or
extend by estoppel or indirection any right, franchise or easement not
expressly granted.
Section 80. Franchises may be conferred.
The City shall have power, subject to the terms and provisions hereof, to
confer upon any person or corporation the franchise or right to use the
property of the City, as defined in the preceding section, for the purpose of
furnishing to the public any general public service, including light, power,
telephone or telegraph service, refrigeration, steam, or the carriage of
passengers or freight within the City, or for any other purpose whereby a
general service is to be furnished to the public for compensation or hire to be
paid to the franchise holder, whereby a right to in part appropriate the
streets, highways or other property of the City, is necessary or proper;
provided that no franchise shall be granted by said City to any person, firm or
corporation to own, control or operate waterworks or electric light and power
plants therein while the City shall own and operate such plants of its own.
Section 81. Exclusive franchises prohibited.
No exclusive franchise or privilege shall ever be granted nor a franchise nor a
privilege to commence at any time after six months subsequent to the passage of
the ordinance granting the same, and no franchise shall be directly or
indirectly extended beyond the term originally fixed by the ordinance granting
the same; nor shall any franchise be granted to any person or persons or
corporation authorizing such persons, firm or corporation, their associates,
assigns or successors to acquire the physical property, rights or franchises of
another person or corporation to whom or to which a franchise has already been
granted by the City whereby the rights and properties held and used under such
franchise are assigned to another person, firm or corporation which holds a
franchise extending beyond the time of the expiration of the franchise of the
person, firm or corporation selling such physical properties, rights or
franchises.
Section 82. People Shall Authorize Franchises.
The city shall have the power to grant any franchise or right granted in the
preceding section, provided, that the city shall not grant, extend, or renew
any franchise except with the approval of a majority of the qualified voters as
provided in section 83, and no franchise shall be granted, extended or renewed
for a longer period than twenty-five years. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 83. Franchise Petition And Election.
Whenever a petition signed by a number of qualified voters of the city, equal
to twenty-five per centum of the total number of votes cast at the next
preceding general municipal election, demanding that a franchise be granted,
extended or renewed, shall be filed with the city clerk, the board of
commissioners shall call a special election thereon as soon as possible
consistent with the provisions of this charter for holding special elections,
at which the question shall be submitted of whether or not such franchise shall
be granted, extended or renewed. If at such election the majority of the voters
voting thereon shall vote for the granting, extending or renewing of such
franchise the same shall be granted by the board of commissioners at their next
succeeding regular meeting. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-
2005)
Section 84. Percentage Of Receipts To Be Paid To City.
All persons or corporations to whom or to which franchises may hereafter be
granted, or their assigns and successors, shall as compensation for the right
or privilege enjoyed pay to the city a percentage of the gross receipts of the
business pursued by the holders of the franchise, as approved by the City
Commission. The amount of said bonus or compensation shall be fixed by
ordinance granting the franchise and shall be payable on the second day of
January of each year, for the preceding year. Said bonus or compensation shall
be exclusive of and in addition to all lawful ad valorem taxes upon the value
of the franchise or other property of the holder thereof, and lawful occupation
taxes imposed upon the occupation or calling of the holder of such franchise.
The board of commissioners may, however, in their discretion in the ordinance
granting any franchise, provide that no bonus shall be paid for the first five
years thereof. (Approved 3-17-1920, as amended by special election held 7-10-
2007)
Section 85. Board To Have Access To Books Of Franchise Holder.
In order to ascertain the true amount of such gross receipts and to determine
the amount of such bonus or compensation and for any other purpose relating to
the business or affairs of the city the board of commissioners shall have power
to examine or cause to be examined the books, papers, and records of franchise
holders, to take testimony and compel the attendance of witnesses under oath
and under such rules and regulations as said board of commissioners may adopt,
and should any franchise holder refuse inspection of its books, papers or
records or the production of the same when lawfully required so to do by the
board, or should any officer, agent or employee of said franchise holder refuse
to give testimony before said board, the board of commissioners shall have
power by ordinance to declare the franchise or privilege enjoyed by such
corporation or person so in default annulled and terminated. (Approved 3-17-
1920)
Section 86. People May Waive Bonus.
If the franchise, the granting of which is demanded by the petition filed as
provided in section 83 of the charter, contains a provision that no bonus shall
be paid by the franchise holder to the city for the privilege thereof, or a
provision fixing the amount of the bonus to be paid, such provision in the
franchise if the franchise be granted shall supersede section 83 of the
charter, and no bonus or the amount of bonus fixed in the franchise, as the
case may be, shall be paid to the city thereunder. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 87. (Disapproved by the governor.)
Section 88. Right To Purchase Franchise Properties.
No franchise shall hereafter be granted except upon condition that the city
shall have the right at any time after fifteen years from the granting thereof,
to purchase the physical properties of the franchise holder and to terminate
its franchise and all privileges enjoyed by it thereunder; provided, the
majority of the qualified voters of the city voting thereon shall vote to do
so. Upon the petition of twenty-five per centum of the qualified voters to the
board of commissioners the matter of the acquisition of such property shall be
submitted at an election to be determined by a vote of a majority of the
qualified voters voting thereon; which election shall be held at the next
succeeding election in the city taking into consideration the requirements of
this charter for the calling and holding of special elections; and provided,
that the owner of such physical property shall be compensated for the value
thereof, considering solely the physical assets, such value to be determined by
the report of the majority of three arbitrators, one to be selected by the
board of commissioners, one by the owner of the physical property to be valued
and the third by the arbitrators so selected. But if the owner of such physical
property shall refuse for thirty days to select an arbitrator, then the value
of such property shall be fixed by the board of commissioners. (Res. 5441, 12-
28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 89. (Disapproved by the governor.)
Section 90. Steam railways.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to authorize steam railways
operating their lines through and from the City of Ponca City to other towns
and cities to lay their tracks and establish their switches on and over the
streets and other property to the City or such parts thereof as the Board of
Commissioners may see fit, subject to the terms of the Charter and to such
conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
ARTICLE V. ORDINANCES
Section 91. Subjects.
The Board of Commissioners are hereby vested with the power and charged with
the duty of adopting all laws, ordinances and resolutions upon every subject,
object and matter within the authority of the government instituted by the
Charter.
Section 92. Mayor to approve or veto.
Every ordinance, law or resolution of the Board of Commissioners shall, before
it takes effect, be presented to the Mayor for his approval and signature or
disapproval. If he approves it he shall sign it; if he disapproves it he shall
specify in writing his objection thereto and within three days return the same
to the Board of Commissioners or to the City Clerk, with such disapproval. If
he does not return it within three days it shall be in force and effect
according to its terms, as if he had approved it.
Section 93. Veto.
A veto by the Mayor shall suspend the action of the Board of Commissioners for
three days, after which time the Board may by majority vote pass any
resolution, law or ordinance over the veto of the Mayor but in all such cases
the Mayor shall not be deprived of his right to vote as a member of the Board
of Commissioners. In case the Mayor's veto shall be sustained the matter shall
not again come before the Board of Commissioners within three months. In
ordinances or resolutions making appropriations the Mayor may veto any or every
item therein, but such veto shall not extend to any item or items not vetoed,
and those which he disapproves shall not become effective unless and until
passed over his veto in the manner above specified.
Section 94. Enrolling and publishing.
Every ordinance which becomes a law of the City shall be enrolled by the City
Clerk or such other officer or person as may be selected by the Board of
Commissioners, within the next succeeding five days, Sunday excepted, or as
soon thereafter as practicable. It shall then be compared carefully with the
ordinance and all amendments thereto, if any, by the City Attorney and at least
one member of the Board of Commissioners. When no errors exist, the officers
comparing shall endorse on the margin "Correctly enrolled," and give the date
thereof and subscribe their names thereto. Every ordinance shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation and printed and published in the City,
and the affidavit of the printer or publisher, or any other competent proof,
that such publication was made shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and
places of the legal publication and promulgation of such ordinance; provided
that amendments and corrections made in digesting and revising ordinances for
publication in book form need not be so published. All ordinances shall become
effective upon their publication.
A compilation of all ordinances of the City when printed and published in book
form bearing on the title page thereof the recital "Published by the Board of
Commissioners of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma", shall be prima facie
evidence of their authenticity and shall be admitted and received as such in
all courts and places without further proof.
Section 95. Style.
The style of all ordinances shall be "Be It Ordained by the Board of
Commissioners of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma", but such ordination clause
may be omitted when the ordinances are published in book form or are revised
and digested under the order of the Board.
The style of all ordinances, resolutions and measures initiated shall be "Be It
Ordained by the People of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma".
Section 96. Printing.
The Board of Commissioners shall have the power to cause the ordinances of the
City to be printed in code form and to have the same rearranged and digested as
often as to the Board may seem proper.
Section 97. Present ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, measures and regulations now in force in
the City of Ponca City, and not in conflict herewith, shall remain in force
under the Charter until altered, amended or repealed.
Section 98. Recording.
All ordinances and resolutions upon their final passage shall be authenticated
by the presiding officer of the Board and the City Clerk, and thereafter
recorded in books kept for that purpose.
Section 99. Initiative and referendum.
All the rights, power(s), privilege(s) and authority with reference to
ordinances, resolutions, and legislation, given by the Charter to the Board of
Commissioners are subject and subordinate to the rights, powers, privileges and
authority of the people secured by and reserved to them in the initiative and
referendum provisions now or hereafter in force in the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Oklahoma.
ARTICLE VI. IMPROVEMENTS
Section 100. Street includes avenue.
The word "Street", as used in this Article includes "Avenue" within its
meaning.
Section 101. Street improvement, made how.
When the Board of Commissioners shall deem it necessary to grade, pave,
macadamize, gutter, curb, drain or otherwise improve any street, alley, public
place, park or ground, or any part thereof, within the limits of the City, for
which a special tax is to be levied, as herein provided, said Board shall by
resolution declare such work or improvement necessary to be done, which
resolution shall be adopted by a majority vote of the Board, and except as
hereinafter provided the passage of such resolution shall be conclusive of the
public necessity therefor and the benefit thereof, and no notice of such action
by the Board shall be requisite to its validity. Such resolution shall in
general terms set forth the nature and extent of the improvement or
improvements to be made, the section or sections of any public street, alley,
place, park or ground to be improved, the material or materials with which the
improvements are to be constructed and the method or methods under which the
cost of such improvements is to be paid. Such resolution may specify that such
improvement may, at the election of the Board, be constructed from different
material and may specify different or alternative methods of making such
improvements and providing for the payment of the costs thereof. Upon the
passage of such resolution it shall be the duty of the City Engineer forthwith
to prepare specifications for such improvements, which specifications shall
embrace the different materials or alternative plans or methods under which
such improvements or parts thereof are to be constructed, if such different
material or alternative methods or plans of construction or payment are
specified, and the character of bond or bonds required of the successful bidder
for the construction of such improvements and the maintenance thereof, as
herein provided. When such specifications have been prepared they shall be
submitted to the Board of Commissioners for its approval. The Board shall have
power to require of the contractor or contractors to whom the work may be let,
a bond for the faithful performance of the contract and the maintenance of the
work in good condition, for a term not less than five years from the completion
and acceptance thereof, and for the maintenance thereof by the contractor. The
bonds required by the Board to be executed by the contractor shall be executed
by such contractor to whom the work may be let together with one corporate
surety acceptable to said Board, which shall be a surety company authorized to
do business in the State of Oklahoma.
It is provided, however, that when any such resolution shall provide for the
improvement of any street or part thereof by paving or macadamizing, the owners
of more than one-half in area of the property liable to assessment for the
payment of the cost of such improvement may protest against the making of the
improvement; provided that no protest may be made against the making of such
improvement when the distance to be improved is not more than three blocks of
whatever size and four intersecting streets and there is at the limits of the
section to be improved paving or macadamizing already constructed or under
contract for construction or for the construction of which jurisdiction has
been secured by the City, on or across the street to be improved. Upon the
passage of a resolution providing for any improvement against the making of
which such property owners may protest, the City Clerk shall notify such owners
by publication of a notice one time in a weekly newspaper or five times in a
daily newspaper published and of general circulation in the City, notifying
them of the passage of the resolution, of the streets or part thereof to be
improved and that they may file their written protest against the making of
such improvement in the office of the City Clerk within ten days after the last
publication of such notice. The Board of Commissioners may by ordinance
establish and enforce such rules relating to the signing and filing of
protests, as may be by it deemed proper. Any number of streets or parts thereof
may be included in one resolution, but such protest shall be made separately as
to each street or part thereof. The filing of a valid and sufficient protest,
within the proper time, signed by the owners of more than one-half in area of
the property subject to assessment for payment of the cost and expense of such
improvement, shall deprive the Board of Commissioners of power under such
resolution to make such improvement. If no sufficient protest be filed, the
Board of Commissioners shall by resolution declare such fact and shall proceed
thereafter as in cases where no notice is required. The finding of the Board as
to the sufficiency of any such protest shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes and against all persons, and it shall have power to have hearings
thereon and compel the attendance of witnesses under oath to determine the
sufficiency thereof.
Whenever a petition, signed by the owners of more than one-half in area of the
property subject to assessment for the payment of the cost of any such
improvement, is filed with the City Clerk paying for the improvement of any
street, alley, public place or ground as herein provided, it shall be the duty
of the Board of Commissioners to cause the improvement to be contracted for and
constructed as herein provided in the case of improvement authorized by
resolution.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to cause sidewalks, curbs and
gutters to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired under and by virtue of the
terms of this Section and Article and of the various subdivisions thereof,
either separately or together with other improvements; provided, that the cost
of construction, reconstruction or repairing sidewalks shall be borne entirely
by the owners of the property abutting upon said sidewalks; and provided
further, that the right of the Board to order the construction, reconstruction
or repairing of such sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be exclusive of and in
addition to the powers in the Charter conferred upon the Board of Commissioners
otherwise to order such improvements.
Section 102. Power to change grade.
The Board of Commissioners is hereby empowered to establish and change the
grade of all streets, alleys or other public places in the City or part or
section thereof, whenever in their judgment the public convenience may require
such change of grade; provided that no material change of the permanent,
established grade shall be made without due compensation to the owners of
abutting property, having permanent improvements erected therein with reference
to the previous legally established grade, and the Board of Commissioners shall
prescribe by ordinance the method of ascertaining the compensation due to any
such property owner whose property is affected by such material change of
street grade, and the City shall pay to such owner such compensation so
ascertained.
Section 103. Payment for improvements.
The cost and expense, including the contract price, of grading, paving,
macadamizing, curbing, guttering, draining and otherwise improving any street,
alley, public place, park or ground, or part thereof, shall be paid by the
owners of the property abutting upon the property, street, alley or other
public place or portion thereof ordered to be improved; provided that when any
railroad or street railroad or railroad switch of any kind lies on and across
any such street, alley or other public ground ordered to be improved, the
owners of such railroad and railroad switches shall pay the entire cost of so
improving the entire right of way of such owners across such street, alley or
other public ground and in any event they shall pay the cost and expense of
such improvement between the rails and for two feet on each outside thereof;
and when any such railroad or switch lies in and parallel with any street,
alley or other public ground the owners thereof shall pay the entire cost of
making such improvement between all rails, tracks and series of tracks and for
two feet outside of the outside rails of the track and series of tracks. The
pro rata cost of such improvement payable under the terms hereof by any
railroad or street railroad or the owner thereof, together with all costs of
collecting the same shall be a special tax against and secured by a lien upon
the roadbed, ties, rails, fixtures, rights and franchises of such railroad or
street railroad and the owners thereof, and wherever a contract shall be let
for any such improvement, the Board of Commissioners shall levy a special tax
upon the roadbed, ties, rails, fixtures, rights and franchises of such railroad
or street railroad for the pro rata share due from such road, for the
improvement as above provided for, and the City and abutting property owners
shall be relieved of the part of the costs to be paid by such road. Said tax
shall be levied at or after the time such contract is let or executed and shall
become due and delinquent as the ordinance levying the same may specify, and
shall be a lien from the time of levying, and the proceeds thereof shall be
used for the payment on the costs of such improvement. If said taxes be not
paid as provided by ordinance, then collection shall be enforced, after
certification of the assessments to the County Clerk, as the collection of
other assessments and taxes under the laws of the State of Oklahoma. The lien
provided for shall be a first and prior lien paramount to all encumbrances,
except taxes, upon the roadbed, ties, rails, fixtures, rights and franchises of
the person, firm or corporation owning the railroad or street railroad
aforesaid. When any street, alley or other public way or ground is ordered
paved, graded, curbed or guttered, drained or otherwise improved as herein
provided, any person having right of way or operating a railroad intersecting
or crossing such street, alley, public way or ground so ordered improved, shall
bear the entire expense of grading, paving, curbing and guttering and laying
sidewalks over and across their tracks and right of way for the full width of
such right of way.
Section 104. Contract for improvements.
When specifications have been adopted by the Board for contemplated
improvements, provided for by the Charter, it shall be the duty of the City
Clerk or such other officer as shall be designated by the Board of
Commissioners to at once advertise for sealed bids for the construction of such
improvements, in accordance with the specifications adopted therefor. Such
advertisement shall be inserted in a daily paper of general circulation in the
City of Ponca City and shall state the time within which bids may be received
as prescribed by the Board, which shall be not less than ten days nor more than
fifteen days from the insertion of said advertisement. Bids shall be filed with
the City Clerk or such other officer as the Board of Commissioners shall
designate and shall be opened and read in public meeting of the Board of
Commissioners. The Board shall have the right to accept such bids as it shall
deem most advantageous to the City and the owners of the property abutting on
the public street or alley named to be improved, or may reject any and all
bids; and where the improvement is ordered on different specifications, and for
the construction of work or part thereof with different materials, and under
different plans or methods of construction, or payment for such improvements,
the Board shall have full power after opening bids to select such methods,
plans and materials for making such improvements or any part thereof, as it may
deem best and let the work to such bidder and upon such bid as it may select
subject to the terms hereof. No bid shall be amended, revised or changed after
being filed. All bids shall be accompanied by a certified check for five per
cent of the amount of such bid as a forfeit, in case of failure of the bidder
or bidders, if successful in securing the work bid, to enter into a contract
and bond as required by the Charter, for the performance of such work. When
bids for such improvements have been accepted by the Board the City shall enter
into a contract with the contractor or contractors, to whom the work has been
let for the performance thereof, which contract shall be executed in the name
of the City by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk or such other officer
as may be designated by the Board, with the corporate seal. The contractor or
contractors to whom such work has been let, shall execute such bond or bonds as
may be requested by the Board and as herein provided. Said bond or bonds to be
approved by the Board if satisfactory.
It is provided, however, that when the City has acquired jurisdiction to make
any improvement in this Article provided for, and all the required proceedings
up to but not including the advertising for bids have been perfected and
completed the Board of Commissioners may, if in their judgment the same be
advantageous to the City and the property owners affected, let a contract for
the construction of such improvements without advertising for bids. Such
contract may be let to any contractor at such a price as the Board of
Commissioners in their discretion may deem proper, but not exceeding the last
contract price for a like improvement; but no such contract shall be let in
this manner except within three months next succeeding the date of the next
preceding contract let for a like improvement nor shall such contract be let
except when the methods or plans of construction and the manner of payment for
the next preceding improvement are identical with the methods or plans of
construction and the manner of payment for the next preceding improvement of
like character. Further proceedings in such cases shall be taken as provided in
cases where contracts are let upon advertisement for bids.
Section 105. Assessment of cost.
After excluding the cost of making any improvements between and two feet on
each side of the track and rails of railroad or street railroads, and the
entire cost of any improvements crossing the right-of-way of any railroad,
which costs are to be assessed against and wholly paid by the owners of such
railroads, as herein provided, and subject to the terms hereof, the City of
Ponca City acting by its Board of Commissioners shall have power to assess the
whole costs of construction, reconstruction and repairing any sidewalks,
curbing, guttering and paving any street or alley or making any other
improvements ordered under the terms hereof, against the property abutting upon
the street, alley, public ground or part or section thereof upon which such
improvements are to be constructed, and shall have the power to fix a lien
against such property and in apportioning the costs of such improvement against
abutting property owners, each quarter block shall be charged with its due
proportion of paving, both the front and side streets on such block, and the
alley or alleys therein, together with the area formed by street intersection
and alley crossing which cost shall be apportioned among the lots or
subdivisions of such quarter blocks, according to the benefit to be assessed to
each lot or parcel. If any portion of the abutting property shall not be
platted into lots or blocks, the Board of Commissioners shall include such
ground in proper quarter block districts for the purpose of appraisement and
assessment as herein provided. Provided, that in no event shall such costs be
assessed against such owners or their property, or liability therefor finally
determined, until after hearing herein provided for and after the adjustment of
equities between such owners; provided further, that the costs assessed against
any property shall be in proportion as the front of the property of each owner
is to the whole frontage of property in such quarter block so ordered to be
improved. Provided, that if the application of this rate would, in the opinion
of the Board, in particular cases, be unjust or unequal, it shall be the duty
of the Board to assess and apportion said costs in such proportion as it may
deem just and equitable, having in view the special benefits in enhanced value
to be received by each owner of such property, and the equities of such owners
and the adjustment of such apportionment, so as to produce a substantial
equality of benefits received by, and burdens imposed upon each owner. The
Board shall also have power to provide that the proportion of the said costs
which may be assessed against the said owners and their property shall bear
interest at a definite rate not to exceed thirteen per cent per annum, when the
payment thereof is deferred, and shall have the power to include in any
assessment which may be made against such owners and their property reasonable
costs of collection, where such costs are incurred, and a reasonable attorney's
fee where attorney's fees are incurred. (Res. 3909, §2, 6-1-1982, approved at
referendum 7-13-1982)
Section 106. Hearing on assessment.
The contract or contracts for such improvements and the bond or bonds having
been executed and approved by the Board, it shall be the duty of the City
Engineer to at once prepare a written statement describing the property, by
block or lot number, or otherwise, abutting upon the section or sections of the
street, public ground, or alleys named to be improved, so describing the
property as to identify the same; and such statement shall also contain an
estimate of the total costs of such improvement and the proportion and amount
of such costs to be assessed against abutting property. Such statement shall be
submitted to the Board which will examine the same and correct any errors which
may appear therein; but no error, omission or mistake in such statement shall
in any manner invalidate any assessment made or liens or claims fixed
thereunder. When such statement has been examined and approved by the Board and
it has determined to assess the costs of such improvements against such
property, it shall so declare by resolution, directing notices thereof to be
given unto the owners by publication for five consecutive dates in a daily
newspaper published and of general circulation in the City of Ponca City, and
also to mail to such owners a copy of such notice by registered letter
deposited in the post office in the City of Ponca City directed to the address
of such owner, if known, or if such address be not known then to the agent or
attorney of such person, if known, provided that the registered letter
aforesaid shall be deposited in such post office in the City of Ponca City
within ten days prior to the date set for the hearing hereinafter provided for,
and provided further, that the method herein prescribed for service of notice
by registered letter shall be merely cumulative of the service of notice by
publication above mentioned; and provided, that in all cases where personal
service by registered letter shall not be obtained said service by publication
shall nevertheless be deemed valid and binding. The certificate of the City
Clerk or such other officer as shall be designated by the Board to the effect
that the address of such owner or owners or their agent or attorney is unknown
to him, and personal service cannot be had upon them, shall be deemed
conclusive of such fact. The notice aforesaid shall state the time of the
hearing hereinafter provided for, the general character of the improvements
determined upon by the Board, the street or part thereof to be improved and the
proportionate part and amount per front foot of the total cost of the proposed
improvement, which it is contemplated shall be assessed against the property
abutting upon the street, alley or public ground to be improved. On the date
stated in the notice aforesaid or any time thereafter before any special
assessment is actually levied, any person, firm or corporation interested in
any property which is claimed to be subject to assessment for the purpose of
paying the cost of any improvement, in whole or in part, shall be entitled to a
full and fair hearing before said Board as to all matters affecting such
property, or the benefit thereto of such improvements or any claim of liability
or objection to the making of such improvements or any claim of invalidity or
irregularity in any of the proceedings in reference to making such improvements
or any other objection thereto. Such person, firm or corporation shall file
their objection in writing and thereafter the Board of Commissioners shall hear
and determine the same, and full opportunity shall be given to the persons,
firms or corporations filing such objections to produce evidence, subpoena
witnesses and to appear in person or by attorney and a full and fair hearing
thereof shall be given by the said Board which hearing may be adjourned from
time to time, without further notice and the Board of Commissioners shall have
full power to inquire into and determine the facts necessary to the
adjudication of objections and the ascertainment of special benefits to such
owners by means of such improvements, and shall make such order in each case as
may be just and proper. Any objections to the regularity of proceedings with
reference to the making of such improvements as herein provided or to the
validity of any assessment against such property or the owners thereof, shall
be deemed waived, unless presented at the time and in the manner herein
specified. The time as set for such hearing shall be not less than ten days
from the time of the first publication of such notice. When the hearing above
mentioned has been concluded the Board shall by ordinance assess the property
abutting upon the public street or alley or part thereof ordered to be
improved, such proportionate part of the costs of said improvement as by such
Board may have been adjudged against such property. Said ordinance shall fix a
lien upon such property for the respective amounts to be assessed and shall
state the time and manner of payment of said assessment.
Section 107. Pipes in streets.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to enact all ordinances and to
establish all rules and regulations that may be necessary to require owners of
all property subject to assessment to pay the cost of such improvement, to
cause to be put in and constructed all water, gas, or sewer pipe connections to
connect with any existing water, gas or sewer pipe in and underneath the
streets, alleys and other public places, or ground or part thereof where such
improvements are to be made, and all costs and expense for making such
connections not paid for by property owners shall be taxed against such
property, and shall be included in and made a part of the general assessment to
cover the cost of such improvement. They shall have power to establish all
rules and regulations necessary to cause all existing water, gas and other
mains to be lowered to conform to the improvement grade in the street to be
improved and to provide a lien against the same for the cost of such lowering
if not performed by the owners thereof.
Section 108. One side of street may be improved.
Subject to the provisions hereof the Board may, when deemed just and proper,
order improvements to be made on only one side of the public street or alley or
section or portion thereof, and may assess the cost of, or a portion thereof,
against the property and the owner of property abutting on such side of such
street or alley or section or portion thereof.
Section 109. Errors corrected.
When any error or mistake shall occur in any proceedings, provided for in the
Charter, it shall be the duty of the Board to correct the same, and whenever it
shall have been finally determined in any suit that any assessment against any
property or its owner or lien against such property fixed or attempted to be
fixed under the terms hereof is, for any reason, invalid, unlawful, or not
enforceable, then it shall be the duty of the Board to at once proceed to
reassess against such property such proportion of the cost of making such
improvements as shall be proper, lawful and just and fix a lien against such
property; and such Board shall have power, and it shall be its duty, by
ordinance or resolution, to adopt such rules and regulations, and to make such
orders as shall, in compliance with the law, provide for correcting such
mistakes and making a valid reassessment against such property and fixing a
valid lien thereon; said Board shall have power and it shall be its duty to
adopt such rules and regulations for a hearing to the owners of such property
before such reassessment which may be necessary or proper, in order to legally
bind such owners and their property by such reassessment; and shall have power
to adopt all other rules and regulations which may be requisite to a valid
reassessment of such property. Subject to the provisions of this Charter the
cost of any such improvement or improvements, after deducting the proportion of
such costs as may be assessed against any railroad or street railroad, and the
proportion of said costs which have been finally assessed against property
abutting upon the street or alley or section or portion against property
abutting upon the street or alley or section or portion thereof, ordered to be
improved, shall be borne and paid by the City.
Section 110. Payment of assessments.
When any of the public improvements provided for in this Article are ordered to
be made, the cost or part thereof, which may be assessed against abutting
property and against railroads and street railroads, as herein provided, and
such cost so apportioned and assessed against the abutting property as provided
for by this Charter, and the lien as established and fixed by the Board of
Commissioners in favor of the contractor as herein provided for, such abutting
property shall be held liable for the payment of such costs so assessed against
it, and the City shall not be responsible or liable for any part of such costs
as assessed and taxed against such abutting property and shall not be liable
for any part or portion of the costs of any street improvements, except when
the City through the Board shall have obligated itself to pay a part of such
costs. The time and manner of payment of such assessments, the manner of
payment of the contractor by the issuance of bonds, and all other matters and
things relating to the payment of the contract price of such improvement, the
payment and collection of assessments and installments thereof, and the
certification and collection of delinquent assessments shall be as provided by
the laws of the State of Oklahoma for cities without charters, or the Board of
Commissioners may by general ordinance prescribe other and different methods of
payment, collection and certification of assessments and installments, and may
prescribe other and different methods of issuing bonds for the payment of the
cost thereof or may provide for the issuance of tax certificates or warrants
evidencing the lien on and against the property liable to assessment to be
issued in such manner and form and with such terms and provisions, not
inconsistent with the Charter as may be deemed proper.
Section 111. City may pay part of cost.
The City shall have power to borrow money on its credit, and the Board may by
ordinance authorize the issuance by the City of its negotiable coupon bonds for
the purpose of paying the City's part of any such permanent street improvements
as embraced in the terms of this Article. Such bonds to be within the limit of
indebtedness prescribed by the Constitution and the Charter. Such bonds shall
bear interest at the rate of not more than six per cent per annum, payable in
semi-annual installments, and the principal thereof shall be payable in not
more than twenty years from their date. Such bonds shall be authorized and
executed in accordance with the terms of the Charter with reference to the
issuance of other bonds; provided, that no such bonds shall be issued unless
the question of such issue shall first be submitted to a vote of the qualified
tax payers, and the same shall be approved at such election in accordance with
the provisions of the Constitution and of the Charter, and the Board of
Commissioners shall provide in any resolution or ordinance authorizing such
bond issue for the levying of an annual tax sufficient to meet the accrued
interest and provide a sinking fund for the payment and retirement of such
bonds, and the bonds provided for in this Article shall be sold by the City for
not less than par. Such bonds shall not be sold by the City until registered
and approved in accordance with the requirements for other bond issues by the
City.
Section 112. General provisions.
All contracts heretofore entered into by the City of Ponca City or which may
hereafter be entered into by the City and before the provisions of the Charter
become effective, and all ordinances made in relation to such contracts, and
all improvements shall be carried forward and completed and paid for in
accordance with such laws and ordinances, and all costs of such improvements
shall be assessed by the Board of Commissioners against the abutting property
owner and other persons, firms or corporations made liable for the payment of
such costs under and in accordance with the provisions of the laws and
ordinances then in force. The Board of Commissioners created and authorized by
the Charter are hereby authorized and directed, and it is hereby made their
duty to do and perform or cause to be done or performed, all things which, by
such existing laws and ordinances of the City, the City Council of the City and
the officers thereof, acting thereunder are now authorized or permitted to do,
in order to carry into effect the terms of such contract and to assess the
costs of improvements against such property, and to provide for the collection
of such assessment and to provide for the issuance of assignable certificates
or bonds therefor, and to do and perform any other act or thing which may be
necessary under the said existing laws and ordinances of said City, to give
effect to said contracts and to provide for the enforcement thereof. The fact
that more than one parcel or lot of land, the property of the owner or jointly
owned by two or more persons, firms or corporations having been assessed
together in one assessment shall not invalidate the same or the lien thereof.
The costs of any such improvements assessed against any property, together with
all costs and reasonable expenses in collecting the same, including reasonable
attorney's fees when incurred shall be secured by a lien upon such property
superior to all other liens, claims or title, except City, county and state
taxes and such lien may be enforced for the nonpayment of taxes by the County
Treasurer as in the case of other taxes and the Board may by resolution or
ordinance make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the Charter, as
it may deem necessary, to provide for the speedy collection of such assessments
for improvements. Any error or omission in selling property or designating the
names of owners or other errors or omissions may be corrected at any time by
the Board or at the suit of any interested party. In any suit brought under the
provision of this Section it shall be proper to join as defendants two or more
property owners who are interested in any single improvement or any single
contract for such improvement.
Section 113. Limitation of action.
At any time within ten days after the hearing in Section 106 of this Article
provided for has been concluded, any person or persons, corporation or
corporations, having an interest in any real estate which may be subject to
assessment under the Charter, or otherwise having any financial interest in
such improvement or improvements, or in the manner in which the cost thereof is
to be paid, who may desire to contest on any ground the validity of any
proceeding that may have been had with reference to the making of such
improvements, or the validity in whole or part, of any assessment lien fixed by
said proceedings may institute suit for that purpose in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person, or persons, corporation or corporations, who shall
fail to institute such suit within a period of ten days, or who shall fail to
diligently prosecute such suit in good faith to final judgment, shall be
forever barred from making any such contest or contests, and this estoppel
shall bind their heirs, successors, administrators and assigns. The City of
Ponca City, or the person or persons to whom the contract has been awarded
shall be made defendant in such suit, and any other proper parties may be
joined therein. There shall be attached to plaintiff's petition an affidavit of
the truth of the matter therein alleged, except such matters as are alleged on
information and belief, and that such suit is brought in good faith and not to
injure or delay the City or contractor or any owner of real estate abutting on
the improvement. Unless the provisions of this Section are complied with by
plaintiff or plaintiffs such suit shall be dismissed on motion of any
defendant, and in that event plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be barred and
estopped to the same extent as if no suit had been brought. In any case where a
suit is brought as provided for in this Section then the performance of the
work may be suspended at the election of either the City or the contractors
until such suit shall be finally determined in the court of original
jurisdiction or any appellate court to which the same may be taken by appeal or
writ of error; provided that any appeal or writ of error shall be perfected
within thirty days from the adjournment of the term of court of original
jurisdiction at which final judgment was rendered in such suit; and provided,
that no appeal or writ of error to review the judgment of such court may
thereafter be taken or sued out by either party.
Section 114. Sidewalks.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power in their discretion by resolution
passed by majority vote to order the construction, reconstruction or repairing
of sidewalks as herein provided along or upon any street, public place, alley
or square, or part or section thereof, within the City or in front of any
property abutting upon the same. No notice of the passage of such resolution
shall be necessary except as herein provided. Such resolution shall in general
terms describe the sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired,
material of which it is to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired, the
street, alley, square or place or section or part of section thereof along
which said sidewalk is to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired. Upon the
passage of such resolution it shall be the duty of the City Engineer forthwith
to prepare and present to the Board plans for the said sidewalk or repairs for
the same, detailing the nature of the construction, reconstruction or repair
thereof, and the material or materials of which the same are to be constructed,
reconstructed or repaired. If satisfactory the Board shall approve the said
plans, and the same shall remain on file in the office of the City Engineer.
Upon the approval of the said plans the City Engineer shall at once prepare and
file with the Board a statement containing a brief description of the property
abutting upon the street, avenue, alley, public place or square, or part or
section thereof where sidewalks are ordered constructed, reconstructed or
repaired, which description may be by lot or block numbers or any other
description which shall be sufficient to identify the same, together with an
estimate of the cost of such sidewalk, or repair of same in front of each lot
or tract. Upon the filing of such statement it shall be the duty of the City
Clerk, or such other officer as shall be designated by the Board to publish in
a daily paper of general circulation printed within the City of Ponca City, a
notice to the owner or owners generally of the property along which the
sidewalk or sidewalks are to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired, and
stating the street, avenue, alley, public place or square or section, or
sections or parts thereof, along which the same are ordered to be constructed,
reconstructed or repaired, and that the plans and specifications for such work
have been adopted by the Board and are on file in the office of the City
Engineer, and notifying the owners of property abutting upon such proposed
sidewalk or sidewalks, to construct, reconstruct or repair the same in
accordance with such resolution, plans and specifications, within thirty days
after the publication of such notice. The Board shall have power to adopt rules
and regulations providing for the giving of such notice to the owner or owners
of such property in a way or ways other than by the publication thereof as
above prescribed, or may provide for the giving of additional notices, but such
additional notice shall be cumulative to the published notice, and the service
of such notice by publication shall be sufficient without any other, further or
additional notice. The owners of property abutting upon the street, avenue,
alley, place or square, or part, parts or section thereof, along which the
sidewalks are ordered to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired shall within
thirty days from the giving of the notice to them, construct, reconstruct or
repair the said sidewalks in accordance with the said resolution, plans and
specifications, at their own cost and expense, and should they fail to do so,
it shall thereupon be the duty of the Board to provide for and to construct,
reconstruct or repair the same, either by the City purchasing the materials and
employing the labor necessary or by letting the said work by contract under
such rules and conditions as may be adopted or provided by the Board, and with
or without competitive bidding therefor. Whenever the City shall have
constructed, reconstructed or repaired, any sidewalk, or caused the same to be
done by contract, the Board shall assess the whole costs and expenses thereof
against the property abutting upon the street, avenue, public place or square
along or upon which the said sidewalks shall have been so constructed,
reconstructed or repaired. Such assessment shall be apportioned and levied
against each lot or tract separately, and shall constitute a separate liability
against each lot or tract and shall be collected and the payment thereof
enforced as provided in the Charter for the collection of special taxes and
assessments. No assessment for the cost of such sidewalks shall be made against
any property until the Board shall have so declared by resolution, and notice
thereof shall have been given the property owners as provided in the Charter.
If such notice be given by publication thereof, such publication shall be made
in a newspaper of general circulation and printed in the City of Ponca City,
for three consecutive days, and also by mailing a copy thereof to the owner or
owners of the property liable to assessment, by registered letter addressed to
the last known address of such owner or owners or their agent, agents or
attorneys; provided, that such registered letters shall be deposited in the
post office in the City of Ponca City not less than five days prior to the
hearing hereinafter provided to be had, such notice by mail shall be merely
cumulative to the publication notice given, and in all cases, instances and
events the publication of the notice in such newspaper shall be sufficient for
all purposes. The notice aforesaid shall state the time and place of the
hearing hereinafter provided to be had, the general character of the sidewalk
ordered to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired, the street, avenue,
alley, public place or square, or parts or sections thereof along which the
said improvement is proposed and that the cost and expense of the said
improvement will be assessed against the property abutting thereon. The time of
the said hearing shall be not less than one week from the date of the first
publication of the said notice. On the date specified in the notices aforesaid,
and at any time before an assessment is actually levied, any person or
corporation owning or interested in any property liable to assessment or sought
to be assessed, may present to the Board or any member thereof, objection in
writing to the proposed assessment being levied, and such assessment shall not
be levied until after the Board shall have held and given a full and fair
hearing upon such objection. At such hearing the person or corporation making
the said objection shall have the right to produce evidence, subpoena
witnesses, and appear in person and by attorney. The said hearing may be
adjourned from time to time without notice, and when the Board shall have been
sufficiently advised in the matter they shall make such order relative thereto
as shall be proper. Any and all objections as to the regularity of the
proceedings or any part thereof with reference to such improvements shall be
deemed waived unless presented at the time and in the manner herein specified.
If the order of the Board made at the conclusion of the hearing shall overrule
the objections filed, the Board shall thereupon by ordinance assess the costs
and expenses of such improvement against each lot or tract of the abutting
property, apportioning to each its proper part thereof. The ordinance levying
such assessment shall create a lien upon the property assessed and shall
specify the time at which the same shall be paid, which time shall not be
longer than sixty days from the date of the passage of the said ordinance. Such
assessment shall bear interest from the date of its levy and until paid, at a
rate not to exceed eight per cent per annum. The lien so created upon and
against such property shall be evidenced by assignable tax certificates or
warrants issued in such manner and form and containing such provisions not
inconsistent with the Charter as the Board shall provide, such certificates or
warrants to be delivered to and received by the contractor, if such work be
done by contract, in full payment for the said work, the City retaining a
sufficient number and amount thereof to reimburse it for the costs and expenses
other than the contract price; or, if the City shall have paid or incurred the
cost and expense of such improvement, such certificates or warrants shall be
issued to and become the property of the City.
Section 115. Repairing and resurfacing.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to cause paving, macadamizing,
curbing and guttering to be repaired or resurfaced under and by virtue of the
terms of the Charter, and such repairing or resurfacing may be done or provided
to be done either separately or together with other improvements; provided that
the passage of the resolution by the Board declaring the said work necessary to
be done shall be conclusive of the public necessity therefor and of the benefit
thereof, and no notice of such action by the Board shall be requisite to its
validity.
Section 116. Railways on improved streets.
Should any railroad or street railway company propose to lay a track or tracks
in or upon any street, avenue or part or portion of any street or avenue which
shall have been improved, it shall become liable for such part or portion of
the cost of such improvement as the Board of Commissioners may direct, or as is
fixed by the Charter.
Section 117. Specifications required for certain contracts.
All contracts for the purpose of making any public improvements or constructing
any public buildings or making repairs to the same shall be made in compliance
with the Oklahoma Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974 (61 O.S. §101 et seq.,
1974), any amendments thereto or any successor acts. (as amended April 3, 1990)
Section 118. (Disapproved by the Governor.)
ARTICLE VII. RECALL OF ELECTED OFFICERS
Section 119. Elected officers may be recalled.
The holder of any elective office may be removed at any time by the voters of
the City of Ponca City. The procedure to effect such removal shall be as
follows: A petition demanding the election of a successor of the person sought
to be removed, containing a general statement of the grounds for which the
removal is sought and signed by a number of the qualified voters of the City
equal to or greater than thirty-five per centum of the total vote cast for the
office of Mayor on the official ballot at the last preceding general municipal
election, shall be filed with the City Clerk who shall within ten days after
such filing examine and ascertain if the said petition be in due form and
signed by the requisite number of qualified voters and attach to said petition
his certificate showing the result and conclusion of his examination. If by the
City Clerk's certificate the petition is found to be defective as to form it
may be amended or reformed in any particular except as to signatures within ten
days from the date of said certificate. If such petition be amended or reformed
the City Clerk shall within ten days after such amendment or reformation
examine the same as amended or reformed and make his certificate relative
thereto, and if such second certificate shall show the petition to be
insufficient it shall be returned to the person filing the same, and the
proceeding theretofore had shall not be deemed or held prejudicial to the
filing of a new petition or further petitions for the same purpose or relief.
If the second or any subsequent petitions, or if the petition filed in the
first instance be sufficient, the City Clerk shall immediately submit the same
to the Board of Commissioners after his examination and approval thereof. The
action or failure to act on the part of the City Clerk shall be final except
that such may be made the subject of proper judicial inquiry and mandate.
Section 120. Recall Election To Be Called And Held.
Upon the submission of a recall petition to the city clerk, the board of
commissioners shall call a special election thereon and the same shall be
conducted, held and the result thereof declared in all respects as are other
city elections. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes cast at
such election shall be declared elected to such office, and shall, immediately
upon his qualification therefor, enter upon the discharge of the duties
thereof. In the event no one candidate at said election shall receive the
highest number of votes cast, a run off election shall be held consistent with
the calling and holding of municipal elections wherein the two candidates
receiving more votes than any others shall be the only candidates whose names
will appear on the ballot for the run off election. The candidate receiving the
majority of the votes cast at said run off election shall be declared elected.
The officer elected at such special election shall hold the said office during
the unexpired term thereof. The person sought to be removed may be a candidate
in the recall election. In such election if some candidate other than the
person sought to be removed is elected, the incumbent shall thereupon be deemed
removed from office upon the qualification of his successor, and should the
person so elected fail to qualify within ten days after being notified of his
election the office shall be deemed vacant. If the incumbent be a candidate at
such election and shall be elected to such office he shall continue therein
without again qualifying. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-
2005)
Section 121. Reserved. (Res. 5441, 12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
ARTICLE VIII. ELECTIONS
Section 122. Candidates For Office And Election.
(a) The general election laws of the state of Oklahoma shall apply to the
conduct of all elections in the city of Ponca City, unless otherwise provided
by city charter. Municipal elections shall be conducted by the Kay County
election board unless the board of commissioners directs that city personnel
shall conduct the election.
(b) Notice Of Municipal Elections.
   1. The city shall give public notice of a general municipal election or a
special election by publishing the resolution. The resolution shall contain the
facts described in section 13-102 of title 26 of the Oklahoma Statutes or any
subsequent state statute specifying the resolution's contents.
   2. The resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in Ponca City at least ten (10) days before the beginning of the filing period
for a general municipal election or a special election wherein a vacancy in
office is to be filled, or at least ten (10) days before the date of a special
election held for other than filling a vacancy in office.
(c) Municipal Election For Offices.
   1. A general election for members of the board of commissioners of Ponca
City shall be conducted on the second Tuesday in February of each year, except
in any year when a presidential preferential primary is held in February, then
the election shall be held on the same day as the presidential preferential
primary.
   2. A special election for members of the board of commissioners of Ponca
City shall be conducted when necessary to fill vacancies in the office of a
commissioner or mayor.
   3. If no candidate in a general or special election receives more than fifty
percent (50%) of the votes cast for all candidates for the office sought in the
election, a run-off election between the two candidates with the highest number
of votes shall be conducted. For general elections, the run-off shall be
conducted on the first Tuesday in April of that year or as soon thereafter as
permitted by state law for elections conducted by the county election board.
For special elections, the run-off shall be conducted as soon as possible
taking into consideration the limited dates on which the county election board
is permitted to conduct elections.
   4. A candidate for office, whether in a general or special election,
receiving more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes cast for all candidates
for the office sought shall, subject to satisfying all other qualifications of
the office, be entitled to be issued a certificate of election in due and
proper form, in the same manner and subject to the same exceptions and caveats
as for county officers. Candidates elected to office shall serve for the term
to which they are elected and until their successor is elected and qualified or
appointed and qualified, and for so long during their term as they continue to
satisfy the qualifications of such an office holder.
(d) Unopposed Candidates In Elections. Any candidate who is unopposed for an
office in a general or special municipal election shall be deemed elected and
certified; and his/her name shall not appear on the election ballot. If there
is only one candidate for each of the offices which are to be filled at the
election, and no questions are to be voted upon at the election, the general or
special municipal election shall not be held.
(e) Manner Of Becoming A Candidate - Declaration Of Candidacy - Filing For
Office. To be eligible to become a candidate in the general election or a
special election in which an office is being filled, a person must for at least
six (6) months prior to filing a declaration of candidacy: (1) maintain their
primary residence within the jurisdictional limits of the city of Ponca City
and (2) be a registered voter at an address within the municipality. To become
a candidate in a general or special election, a declaration of candidacy must
be filed with the Kay County election board during the filing period
established for that election by the board of commissioners.
(f) Special Election Ballot - Preparation And Arrangement. The ballot for a
special election shall be prepared by the city attorney and shall set forth the
proposition or propositions to be voted upon, and if more than one proposition
is submitted, they shall be arranged so that each proposition may be voted upon
separately.
(g) In the event city officials are directed to conduct said election, the
duties required to be performed by the county election board shall be performed
by the city clerk and the duties required to be performed by the county board
of commissioners shall be performed by the board of commissioners of the city
of Ponca City, and the duties required to be performed by the sheriff shall be
performed by the chief of police, and other city officials are hereby required
to perform the various duties provided by state election law prescribed by
county officers, in whose stead they act, subject to the same penalties and
provisions prescribed by said election laws as to such officers. (Res. 5441,
12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 123. Reserved 1
.
 
Notes
  1. Editor's note: Charter amendments approved by the electorate at a special
1 election held April 5, 1994, and by the governor on July 1, 1994 repealed
  section 123, General laws to govern; section 125, Election precincts to be
  divided; and section 126, Qualifications and duties of election officials.
Section 124. (Disapproved by the governor.)
Sections 125, 126. Reserved 1
.
 
Notes
  1. Editor's note: Charter amendments approved by the electorate at a special
1 election held April 5, 1994, and by the governor on July 1, 1994 repealed
  section 123, General laws to govern; section 125, Election precincts to be
  divided; and section 126, Qualifications and duties of election officials.
Section 127. General And Special Elections Defined.
General elections are those elections conducted early and regularly each year
to fill recurring positions on the board of commissioners becoming vacant by
reason of expiration of terms of office. All other elections, whether to fill
vacancies in the board of commissioners, or vote on special issues or
questions, whenever they may be conducted, are special elections. (Res. 5441,
12-28-2004, approved at referendum 3-1-2005)
Section 128. (Disapproved by the governor.)
ARTICLE IX. HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section 129. Sewers.
The board of commissioners shall have power by ordinance: To provide for,
construct and maintain a general sewer and drainage system to be divided into
public and private sewers and drains and to be constructed, maintained and
regulated in such manner and out of such material as the board of commissioners
may prescribe. Sewers may be established as the board of commissioners may
direct, and there may be extensions or branches of sewers constructed or
entirely new throughout as may be deemed expedient. They may, if necessary,
levy a tax on all taxable properties in the entire city to pay for the
construction and repairs of such public sewers, which shall be called a
"special sewer tax", and shall be used solely for such purpose. No public sewer
shall be run diagonally through private property when it is practicable,
without injury to said sewer, to construct it parallel with one of the exterior
lines of such property. No public sewer shall be constructed through private
property when it is practicable to construct it along or through a street or
public highway. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 130. License Butchers.
To regulate and license butchers and prevent their slaughtering animals in the
city limits, and revoke licenses for malconduct in trade, and regulate, license
and restrain the sale of fresh meat, fruit and vegetables, and the slaughter of
animals, and to license and regulate or prohibit slaughterhouses within the
city limits. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 131. Prevent Nuisances.
To compel the owner or occupant of any grocery, soap tallow or chandler
establishment, or blacksmith shop, tannery, stable, slaughterhouse, or other
building, or sewer, privy, hide house, or other unwholesome or nauseous place
or house, to cleanse, remove, fill up, repair or abate the same, as may be
necessary for the health, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants. (Approved
3-17-1920)
Section 132. Regulate And Inspect Food.
To regulate the inspection and slaughter of animals and the sale of fresh meats
within the city, and the inspection and sale of flour, meal, fish, salt and
other provisions, and all other articles of food and drink whatsoever, to be
consumed within the city, and to appoint inspectors, weighers and gaugers, and
prescribe their duties and powers, and to regulate their fees, and to provide
for the inspection and weighing of hay and coal, ice, and the measurement of
coal, gas, and other fuel to be sold in the city. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 133. Noisome Smells.
To regulate, restrain, locate, abate or prohibit gas reservoirs and tanks, glue
factories, bone boilers, hide houses or establishments for burning hides, soap
factories, places for rendering lard tallow, offal and other substances that
can be rendered and all establishments where any nauseating, dangerous,
offensive or unwholesome business may be carried on. (Approved 3-17-1920)
Section 134. Scavenger And Scavenge.
The city of Ponca City shall have the right and power by ordinance to provide
that the tenant or owner of any property shall pay to the city reasonable
charges for the removal of night soil or other refuse matter from the closets
of the premises thereof, or for the removal of slops, offal, excrement, filth,
waste substances and other refuse matter, and to prohibit anyone except someone
in the employ of the city, or by the city authorized to do so, from removing or
carrying away the contents of any privy, vault or water closet, or any
receptacle, or any slops, offal, excrement, filth, waste substances or other
refuse matter and the city shall have the right to have inspected the premises
of all persons at any time in the interest of the public health; and for the
purpose of making such inspection, the officers and agents of the city, duly
authorized to do so, shall have a right to enter the premises of any person at
any hour during the daytime to make such inspection. Whenever notice is given
by any officer or employee of the city inspecting any premises to the effect
that said premises need cleaning, the said night soil, slops, offal, excrement,
filth, waste substances and other refuse matter shall be removed and the owner
or tenant of such premises shall pay the City the price prescribed therefor,
and failure so to do shall subject said person to the penalties to be
prescribed by ordinance, and said persons shall be fined, upon conviction in
Municipal Court, in any sum not less than One Dollar or more than One Hundred
Dollars.
Section 135. Five mile jurisdiction.
The City of Ponca City shall have jurisdiction over all places within five
miles of the corporate limits of the City for the enforcement of all health,
quarantine or waterworks ordinances and regulations thereof.
Section 136. Board of Health.
The Board of Commissioners are hereby authorized and required to create a Board
of Health for the City, whose duties and jurisdiction shall be determined and
prescribed by said Board of Commissioners, said Board of Health to consist of
not more than three reputable physicians of the City of Ponca City, to be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Commissioners.
Section 137. Unsanitary place a nuisance.
Any building, private sewer, drain, toilet, pipe, or any other place or thing
within the City of Ponca City, found in an unsanitary condition, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and the same shall be immediately abated by the owner
thereof, and if such owner fail or refuse to abate the same any police or other
officer of the City, or any person injured or annoyed thereby, may summarily
abate the same either by removal or by repairing; and if the same be repaired
the property upon which the same shall be or be found shall be liable for all
costs and expenses incurred in repairing or abating the same.
Section 138. Refuse to be cared for.
The City of Ponca City shall also have power to require any person or
corporations owning or operating manufacturing enterprises within or without
the City which shall discharge refuse matter into the Arkansas River or its
tributaries, to make other provisions for such refuse matter or so purify the
same that the public health will be fully protected.
Section 139. Fill up drains.
To require the owners of private sinks and privies to fill up, cleanse, drain,
alter, relay, repair, fix and improve the same as they may be ordered by
resolution or ordinance, and impose penalties upon persons failing to do the
same. If there be no person in the City upon whom such order can be served, or
if no such person can be found therein, the City may have such work done, and
the costs of the same shall be a lien on the property and taxed against it, and
collected in such manner as the Board of Commissioners may provide.
Section 140. Carcasses not to be buried in City.
To prevent any person from bringing, depositing or burying within the City
limits the carcasses of any dead animals or other unwholesome substances, or
matter, or filth of any kind, and to require prompt removal of the same, and
impose all necessary penalties for the enforcement of such powers.
Section 141. Inspect dairies.
To provide for the inspection of dairies and products therefrom, inside and
outside of the City limits, doing business within the City and to charge and
collect license fees for inspection; to establish and maintain a standard of
sanitary conditions governing dairies inside and outside the City, doing
business in the City; and to inspect and establish and maintain a standard of
quality of all dairy products sold in the City, and to provide for penalties
for the violation thereof.
ARTICLE X. PUBLIC SAFETY
Section 142. Fire Department and prevention of fires.
The City of Ponca City shall have power:
(a) To provide means for the protection against and the extinguishment of
fires, and shall provide for the regulation, maintenance and support of a Fire
Department, and for the purpose of guarding against the calamity of fire, may
prescribe fire limits, and may regulate and prohibit the erection, building,
placing or repairing of wooden buildings within such fire limits in said City
as shall be designated and prescribed as fire limits, and may also within said
limits prohibit the moving or putting up of any wooden buildings from one place
to another therein, and may direct and prescribe that all buildings within the
limits so designated in the ordinances as fire limits shall be made or
constructed of fireproof material, the kind, character, extent and quality of
which buildings and materials may, by ordinance, be prescribed and fixed, and
may prohibit the repairing of wooden buildings in such limits when the same
shall have been damaged to the extent of thirty-three and one-third percent of
the value thereof, and may prescribe the manner of ascertaining such damage and
may declare all wooden buildings in the fire limits which they deem dangerous
to contiguous buildings, or which may cause or promote fires, to be nuisances,
and may require and cause the same to be removed in such manner as may be
prescribed, at the expense of the owner, and may further prescribe limits
within which only a fireproof roofing may be used, and may impose a penalty for
violation of such rules and regulations. The City shall have the right by
ordinance to regulate, prescribe and govern the storage of lumber, sash, doors,
blinds, nitroglycerine, dynamite, powder and any and all commodities of an
inflammable, combustible or explosive nature and any and all kinds of goods,
wares and merchandise, and prescribe limits within which such materials may be
carried, and fix penalties for violation of the rules and ordinances governing
the same.
(b) To procure fire engines, hooks, ladders, buckets and other apparatus, and
organize fire engine, hook and ladder and bucket companies, and prescribe rules
of duty for the government thereof, with such penalties as they may deem
proper, and make all necessary appropriation therefor.
(c) To regulate or prevent the carrying on of manufactories and other works
dangerous in causing fires, and to regulate the location of sheds and other
buildings dangerous on account of fires.
(d) To prevent the deposit of ashes in unsafe places and cause the removal from
one's premises of all trash, old papers, straw, goods, boxes, barrels and
anything else dangerous on account of fire and filth, slop and animal or
vegetable matter and everything else offensive and dangerous to health and
comfort and to cause all buildings and enclosures in a dangerous state to be
put in safe condition.
(e) To regulate the size, number and construction of doors and stairways to
theaters, tenement houses, hotels, boardinghouses, apartment houses, audience
rooms, public halls, schoolhouses and buildings used for the gathering of large
numbers of people, whether now built or hereafter to be built, so that there
may be convenient, safe and speedy exit in case of fires.
(f) To require the construction of suitable fire escapes on or in hotels,
lodging houses, factories and school and other buildings whether now or
hereafter built.
(g) To compel the owners or occupants of houses or other buildings to have
suitable scuttles in their roofs and stairs and ladders leading to the same.
(h) To authorize one or more officers, agents or employees of the City to enter
in and upon all buildings and premises to examine and discover whether the same
are dangerous on account of fire, or in any unclean state, and cause all
defects to be remedied, and filth and trash to be removed, and generally the
Board of Commissioners shall have power to establish such regulations for the
prevention and extinguishment of fires as it may deem expedient.
(i) To fix by ordinance the salaries of all firemen and other persons connected
with the Fire Department.
(j) To provide for the payment of and to pay pensions to men who have served
not less than ten years continuously in the employ of the City as firemen.
Section 143. To regulate trains and tracks.
The City of Ponca City shall have power by ordinance or otherwise to regulate
the speed of engines, locomotives and street cars within the limits; to require
all steam and electric railway companies to keep the streets over which they
run properly drained and to light the same whenever deemed necessary, and to
require that all railroad tracks, switches and turnouts conform to the grade of
the streets so as to interfere as little as possible with the ordinary travel
in the use of said streets.
Section 144. Poles and wires.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to cause telegraph, telephone and
electric light companies to change the location of their poles, and to cause
all erected poles to be taken down and removed, and the wires run underground,
if it be decided by the Board that the public interest and safety should be
conserved thereby.
Section 145. Repairing and maintaining streets.
Any person, firm or corporation required by contract, franchise or otherwise to
construct, reconstruct or repair any street improvement, or to keep any portion
of any street, alley or part thereof or the pavement thereon in repair or to
maintain the same in safe condition for public travel, who shall be served with
a written notice signed by any owner or owners of property abutting such street
or alley or such portion thereof, such notice to be served by delivering in
person or by mailing same by registered mail at the post office address of his
residence, and who shall fail to refuse to perform his duty according to the
terms of such franchise, contract or other obligation, within ninety days after
the date of service of such notice, shall forfeit to the City the sum of fifty
dollars for each day after the expiration of said ninety days until such
street, alley or portion thereof such person, firm or corporation is bound to
repair or maintain, is repaired and put in good condition for public travel as
required by the terms of such contract, franchise or other obligation, until
the terms thereof are complied with, such sum or sums to be recoverable at the
suit of the City or of any owner of property abutting on said street or alley
or portion thereof, to the use of the City, in any court of competent
jurisdiction. The penalty herein provided shall be in addition to and
cumulative of any other penalty, condition or requirement contained in such
franchise, contract or other obligation. In any suit brought under this Section
any judgment therein recovered may be a lien upon any sum held by or deposited
with the City, or in trust, to guarantee or secure the performance of the
condition of any franchise, contract or obligation.
Section 146. Obstructions in streets.
The City shall have power to prohibit and prevent all encroachments into and
upon the sidewalks, streets, alleys and other property of the City, and may
provide for the removal of all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the owners or occupants of the grounds
fronting thereon, or at the expense of the person placing the same there; the
City shall also regulate the planting and protecting of and shall have complete
control over shade trees in streets and the cultivation and uniform trimming
thereof and the building of bulk heads, cellar and basement ways, stairways,
railposts, awning posts, and all other structures projecting upon or over and
adjoining, and all excavation through and under the sidewalks or along the
streets of the City.
Section 147. Condemnation of buildings.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to condemn all dangerous buildings,
fences, sheds, awnings or structures of every kind, and to require the owners,
or occupants to remove the same, and may punish by fine and imprisonment or
either any person failing to do so. They may remove the same at the expense of
the City on account of the owner of the property and assess the expense
thereof, including condemnation proceedings if any, as a special tax against
the land, and the same may be collected as other special taxes provided for in
the Charter, or by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 148. Penalty for obstructing streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber or obstruct any street, highway
or grounds of the City with any posts, boxes, lumber, fences or with anything
else, and he may be punished as may be provided by ordinance.
Section 149. Minors on the streets.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to prohibit minors from going on
the public streets and in the public places in the City of Ponca City between
the hours of nine o'clock p.m. and four o'clock a.m. without the consent of
their parents or guardian.
Section 150. Traffic regulations.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to enact and enforce ordinances
regulating the speed, driving, handling and parking of automobiles and other
vehicles on the streets of the City.
Section 151. Oil houses, elevators, building permits.
In addition to all powers granted elsewhere in the Charter, the City of Ponca
City shall have power to regulate and prohibit the storage of oil, oil houses
and yards in any portion of the City, to provide for inspection of such houses
and yards, and to prescribe the material of which such houses shall be
constructed; to regulate and provide for inspection of passenger and freight
elevators in buildings; to prohibit and regulate the construction and erection
of livery stables and blacksmith shops in the resident portion of the City; to
authorize the inspection of all buildings and structures during the erection,
require them to be erected in accordance with regulations prescribed, and to
prohibit their erection without having first had a building permit issued.
ARTICLE XI. REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section 152. Taxation.
The City of Ponca City shall have power and is hereby authorized annually to
levy and collect taxes for general revenue purposes, not exceeding ten mills on
the dollar of the assessed value on all real, personal and mixed property in
the City, not exempt from taxation by the Constitution and laws of the State;
provided the City of Ponca City, by a majority of the qualified property tax-
paying voters of said City, voting at an election to be held for that purpose,
shall be allowed to become indebted in a larger amount than that specified in
Section 26, Article 10, of the Constitution of the State of Oklahoma and in a
larger amount than that specified in this Section of the Charter for the
purpose of purchasing or constructing public buildings or public utilities, or
for repairing the same, to be owned exclusively by the City; provided, that the
City, in incurring any such indebtedness requiring the assent of the voters
aforesaid, shall have the power to provide for and before or at the time of
incurring the same, shall provide for the collection of an annual tax in
addition to all other taxes provided for by the Charter, sufficient to pay the
interest on such indebtedness as it falls due and also to constitute and
maintain a sinking fund for the payment of the principal thereof within twenty-
five (25) years from the date of contracting same, and all bonds heretofore
issued or to be issued by the City, in pursuance of the requisite vote
heretofore taken, as above provided, of the property tax-paying voters of the
City, shall for the purpose, and in compliance with the terms of this Section
stated, be deemed and held to have been duly and legally authorized and issued.
Section 153. Poll tax.
The City shall have power to levy and collect a poll tax on all electors of the
City under sixty years of age, not exceeding two dollars per capita, per annum.
The said poll tax shall be levied and collected by the persons or officers
specified, and in the manner and at the time hereinafter provided by ordinance
of the City, and a penalty for nonpayment of such tax when may be prescribed by
ordinance duly enacted by the City.
Section 154. Itinerants and brokers.
To license and regulate any itinerant or transient vendor of clothing or
wearing apparel or article of bedding or merchandise of any description
whatever, ticket brokers, or scalpers, or dealers in railway tickets, dealers
in bankrupt or fire stock, or damaged goods of any kind, secondhand dealers,
pawnbrokers, junk shops and dealers in junk, and all other business or
occupations whatever, which in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners shall
be properly subject to police regulation, and to require the person or persons
or corporation pursuing any business or occupation mentioned in this Section,
to give any and all bonds in such amounts and with such conditions as the Board
of Commissioners may prescribe. No license shall be assignable, except by the
permission of the Board of Commissioners.
Section 155. Occupation.
The City shall have power to levy and collect a license tax on auctioneers,
contractors, druggists, hawkers, peddlers, bankers, brokers, pawnbrokers,
merchants of all kinds, grocers, confectioners, restaurants, butchers, taverns,
public boardinghouses, billiard tables, bowling alleys and other amusement
devices, drays, hacks, carriages, omnibuses, carts, wagons and other vehicles
used in the City for pay, hay, scales, lumber dealers, furniture dealers,
saddle or harness dealers, stationers, jewelers, livery stable keepers, real
estate agents, express companies or agencies, shows, theaters, and all kinds of
exhibitions for pay; provided, however, that all scientific and literary
lectures and entertainments shall be exempt from taxation, and also all
concerts and musical or other entertainments given exclusively by citizens of
the City.
Section 156. License revoked.
In all cases where, by any of the provisions of the Charter, or by ordinance in
pursuance thereof, a person is required to obtain a license for any calling,
occupation, business or vocation, and has, on complaint before the Municipal
Court, been adjudged guilty of violating any rule, regulation or ordinance of
the City in relation thereto, said Court, in addition to the punishment imposed
therefor, may suspend or revoke the license so granted.
Section 157. Lien.
A lien is hereby created on all property, personal and real, in favor of the
City, for all taxes, ad valorem, occupation or otherwise. Said lien shall exist
from the time of assessment or levy until the taxes are paid. Such lien shall
be prior to all other claims, and no gift, sale, assignment or transfer of any
kind, or judicial writ of any kind, can ever defeat such lien, but the
Commissioners can pursue such property, and whenever found, seize and sell
enough thereof to satisfy such taxes.
Section 158. Attachment for tax.
If anyone against whom a personal tax is assessed, and which is due and unpaid,
whether the same be delinquent or not, shall have removed out of the City, or
shall be about to remove out of the City, or shall have removed or about to
remove his personal property out of the City, it shall be the duty of the
Commissioner of Finance to proceed at once and collect such taxes by seizure
and sale of any personal property of such person to be found in the City of
Ponca City or anywhere in the State of Oklahoma.
Section 159. Collection of tax.
The Board of Commissioners shall have full power to provide by ordinance for
the prompt collection of taxes assessed, authorized, levied or imposed under
the Charter, and are hereby authorized and to that end may and shall have full
power and authority to sell or cause to be sold all kinds of property, real and
personal, and may and shall make such rules and regulations and ordain and pass
all ordinances deemed necessary to the levying, laying, imposing, assessing and
collecting of any taxes provided or authorized in the Charter. Unless otherwise
provided by ordinance and the Charter, all property in such City liable to
taxation shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the general
laws of the State, insofar as applicable.
Section 160. Exempt certain property.
The Board of Commissioners are hereby empowered and authorized to exempt from
municipal taxation for a period not exceeding five years, manufacturing
establishments and public utilities, as an inducement to their location in the
City.
ARTICLE XII. PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section 161. City may own utilities.
The City of Ponca City shall have power:
(a) City may engage in public service. To buy or construct, own, maintain,
extend and operate a system or systems of waterworks, gas or electric lighting
plants, telephones, street cars and sewers, or any other public service or
enterprise that may be approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the
City, voting therefor, at any regular election for City Officers, or at a
special election called for that purpose in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter; and may demand and receive compensation for such service furnished
for private purposes, and shall have power to condemn the property of any
person, firm, or corporation for the purpose of operating and maintaining any
such utility, and for distributing such service throughout the City or any
portion thereof, but in such condemnation proceedings no allowance shall be
made for the value of any franchise and only the actual physical assets shall
be purchased by the City.
(b) City may acquire, own and sell property. To acquire or own within or
without the City limits either by purchase, donation, bequest or otherwise, all
property it may need for any municipal purposes whatever; and all necessary
rights of way thereto, and shall also have the power to sell and dispose of the
same, except as otherwise provided in the Charter.
(c) City may improve property. To provide all needful buildings for the use of
the City; to provide for enclosing, improving, ornamenting and regulating all
public grounds belonging to the City; to provide hospitals and regulate and
maintain the same, and to permit or prohibit private hospitals; and to
establish an active system of inspection and regulation over all such premises.
(d) City may purchase or condemn property. To purchase or condemn and hold for
the City, within, or outside the City limits within five miles therefrom, all
necessary lands for hospital purposes and waterworks and erect, establish and
regulate the hospitals, workhouses and poorhouses, and provide for the
government and support of the same, and make regulations to secure the general
health of the City, and to prevent and remove nuisances, and to make provisions
for furnishing the City with water; and water rates shall be fixed annually by
the Commissioners at their first meeting in June; provided, the condemnation of
such property outside of the City limits shall be regulated in all respects as
provided by law for the condemnation of property for railroad purposes and
provided, further, that the police jurisdiction of the City shall extend over
such land and property to the same extent as over public cemeteries.
Section 162. Adoption of Charter does not change rights of City.
All real estate owned in fee simple, or held by lease, sufferance, easement or
otherwise, all public buildings, school buildings, schoolhouses, fire engine
stations, public squares, parks, streets, alleys, and all property of whatever
kind, character and description which has been granted, donated, purchased or
otherwise acquired by the City of Ponca City, through any means or agency, and
all causes of action, choses in action, rights or privileges of every kind and
character, and all property of whatsoever character or description which may
have been held, and is now held, controlled or used by the said City of Ponca
City for public uses or in trust for the public, shall vest in, and remain in
and inure to the said Corporation, the City of Ponca City, under the Charter
and all suits and pending actions to which the City of Ponca City heretofore
was, or now is, a party, plaintiff or defendant, shall in no wise be affected
or terminated by the provisions of this Charter, but shall continue unabated.
ARTICLE XIII. LABOR
Section 163. City may employ labor.
The City of Ponca City shall have power to do by day labor, under municipal
direction, any work which may become advisable or necessary to be done.
Section 164. Eight hours a legal day.
In all work done by or for the City, either by day work or by contract, eight
hours shall constitute a day's work and no employee of the City on work for the
City, or employee of any contractor or subcontractor of such work shall be
required to work longer than eight hours in any one calendar day; provided,
that this Section shall not apply to the fire or police department or to
employees engaged in clerical work for the City and, provided further that this
Section shall not be construed to apply to any contract entered into by the
City prior to the passing of this Act; provided that in case of emergency, an
employee may be required to work longer than eight hours, but when required so
to work longer than eight hours, such employee shall be paid for such overtime
at the rate of one and one-half times the rate such employee is paid for his
labor during the eight hours.
Section 165. No lien on City property.
No lien of any kind can ever exist against the public halls, parks or public
works of the City. All sub-contractors, material men, mechanics and laborers
upon any public works of the City, are hereby required to notify the City of
all claims they may have on account of such work against the City, and when
such notice has been given the City shall retain an amount from any funds due
the contractors sufficient to satisfy all claims; provided, that such notice
may be given at any time after such indebtedness becomes due and before final
settlement; and, provided further, that no contractor or sub-contractor shall
issue any time checks on or on account of any public works of said City.
Section 166. Convicts.
The Board of Commissioners shall have the power to prohibit the working of
State convicts within corporate limits of the City.
ARTICLE XIV. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 167. City may summon witnesses.
The Board of Commissioners shall have power to summon and compel the attendance
of witnesses, and the production of books and papers before them whenever it
may be necessary for the more effective discharge of their duties. All process
shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk and be served by
the Chief of Police or any police officer of the City.
Section 168. Sections not interdependent.
In the event any part, article, section or subdivision of this Act shall be
held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not
be construed to invalidate or impair the remainder of this Act, but the same
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such holding.
Section 169. Optional remedies.
Whenever any power, authority or right is conferred herein upon the City of
Ponca City or upon the Board of Commissioners, and provisions are incorporated
herein or elsewhere for the exercise thereof in different ways, such provisions
shall be held and construed to be cumulative and in such cases the
Commissioners shall be empowered to use their discretion with respect to which
of such provisions shall be exercised.
Section 170. Style of process.
All writs, subpoenas, or other process issuing out of the City court, shall run
in the name of the City of Ponca City, and may be executed and served by the
Chief of Police or his deputies, or policemen of said City anywhere in Kay
County, Oklahoma.
Section 171. Contracts.
All bonds, contracts, or other instruments requiring the assent of the City
shall be signed by the Mayor or the Acting Mayor, and attested by the City
Clerk.
Section 172. No bond required of City.
It shall not be necessary in any action, suit or proceeding in which the City
is a party, for any bond, undertaking or security to be executed in behalf of
the City, but all such action, suits, appeals, or proceedings shall be
conducted in the same manner as if such bond, undertaking or security had been
given, and said City shall be liable as if such obligation had been duly given
and executed.
Section 173. City not to be attached or garnished.
The property, real and personal, belonging to said City shall not be liable to
be sold or appropriated under any writ of execution or cost bill, nor shall the
funds belonging to said City, in the hands of any person, be liable to
garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds it may have on hand due
any person, nor shall the City or any of its officers or agents be required to
answer to any writ or garnishment of any account whatsoever, nor shall said
City be liable to the assignee of any wages of any officer, agent or employee
of said City, whether earned or unearned, upon any claims or account,
whatsoever, and as to the City any such assignment shall be absolutely void.
Section 174. All contractors to give bond.
The Board of Commissioners shall require good and sufficient bonds of all
contractors, with at least two good and sufficient sureties, who shall be
residents of the State of Oklahoma. No nonresident of the State shall ever be
received as surety on any bond payable to the City except such guarantee
companies as may be satisfactory to the Board of Commissioners. And in all
cases at least one of the sureties must be a resident of Kay County, Oklahoma.
When bondsmen are not residents of Kay County such proof of their solvency may
be required as the Board of Commissioners may deem necessary.
Section 175. Fund not to be diverted.
All appropriations made or set apart for the payment of any interest or sinking
fund, or both, shall under no circumstances ever be diverted to any other
purpose.
Section 176. When State law to govern.
All questions arising in administering said City government, and not provided
for in this Act, shall be governed by the State law in such cases made and
provided.
Section 177. Charter a public Act.
This Act shall be deemed a public act, and judicial notice shall be taken
thereof in all courts and places, without the same having been pleaded or read
in evidence.
Section 178. Fiscal year.
The fiscal year shall begin at twelve o'clock noon, on the first day of July of
each year.
Section 179. Amendments to Charter.
The people of the City of Ponca City hereby reserve to themselves the right to
propose amendments to this Charter as provided by the Constitution and Laws of
the State of Oklahoma.
Section 180. Charter may be repealed.
The Charter may be repealed and the City of Ponca City thereupon and thereafter
subject to the general laws of the State of Oklahoma the same as though no
Charter had ever been adopted, at an election called and held for that purpose
pursuant to a petition for the holding of such an election. Such petition, when
filed with the City Clerk, must have signed thereto the names of a number of
electors of the City not greater than one-fourth (1/4) of the total number of
votes cast at the regular municipal election next preceding, and shall not be
presented to the City Commissioners until after there shall have called at the
City Clerk's office and signed the same such additional number of electors as
shall make the total number of signatures thereto equal to or greater than
forty (40) percent of the total vote cast at the regular election next
preceding for the City officer who received the highest number of votes at such
election. Upon the presentation of such petition to the City Commissioners they
shall within ten days call a special election to be held within twenty days
after such call, at which the question of repeal shall be voted upon by the
general electors of the City. If a majority of the electors voting at said
election shall vote in favor of the repeal, the Charter shall stand repealed.
If the Charter be repealed the Mayor and other officers, except the two
Commissioners, shall continue in office and administer the affairs of the City
under the Constitution and Laws of the State of Oklahoma until their successors
are elected and qualified. The offices of the two Commissioners shall, by the
result of said election, be abolished. At the said election called and held for
the purpose of voting upon the question of repealing the Charter, there shall
be held, as a part thereof, an election of officers provided by the laws of the
State of Oklahoma for Cities of the First Class, and if the Charter be repealed
and such officers elected they shall immediately thereafter qualify for and
assume the duties of the offices to which they shall have been elected. The
officers so elected shall hold their respective offices until the next general
election as provided by law for Cities of the First Class.
We, the undersigned members of the Board of Freeholders elected at the regular
election held in and for the City of Ponca City on the First day of April,
1919, for the purpose of preparing and proposing a Charter for the City of
Ponca City, to be submitted to the voters of said City at an election to be
called and held for such purpose, do hereby certify that the within and
foregoing is the original Charter so prepared and proposed by us.
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and signed and certified the
said Charter in duplicate this Twenty-eighth day of June, 1919.
   JAMES Q. LOUTHAN,
   President and Member from Third Ward.
   C.B. HARROLD,
   Secretary and Member from Fourth Ward.
   W.F. WALLACE,
   Member from First Ward.
   L.A. MARIS,
   Member from First Ward.
   C.E. HALL,
   Member from Second Ward.
   W.E. SCOTT,
   Member from Second Ward.
   WILLIAM H. ENGLAND,
    Member from Third Ward.
   M.P. LONG,
   Member from Fourth Ward.
   O.P. CALLAHAN,
   Member from Fifth Ward.
   HERBERT TAYLOR,
   Member from Fifth Ward.
Filed in the office of the Mayor with J. M. Shornden, Acting Mayor in the
absence from the City of the Mayor, this twenty-eighth day of June, 1919.
   J.M. Shornden,
   Acting Mayor.
Filed in the office of the County Clerk within and for Kay County, Oklahoma,
this twenty-eighth day of June, 1919.
   ED H. STALNAKER,
   County Clerk of Kay County, Oklahoma.
   GOVERNOR'S OFFICE, OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLAHOMA.
This Is To Certify, That I, J.B.A. Robertson, Governor of the State of
Oklahoma, have this 17th day of March, 1920, examined the within and foregoing
Charter of Ponca City, Oklahoma, and do hereby specifically disapprove and
reject all of Sections sixteen (16), thirty (30), forty-one (41), sixty-six
(66), eighty-seven (87), eighty-nine (89), one hundred eighteen (118), one
hundred twenty-four (124) and one hundred twenty-eight (128), and do hereby
approve all the balance thereof in all respects.
   J.B.A. ROBERTSON, Governor.
Dated March 17th, 1920.
(SEAL)
Attest: JOE S. MORRIS, Secretary of State.
State of Oklahoma, County of Kay, ss:
I, the undersigned City Clerk of the City of Ponca City in said county and
state, hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true, complete
and correct copy of the original Charter of the City of Ponca City as the same
remains on file and of record in my office.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my official hand and the corporate
seal of the City of Ponca City, this          day of               , 19       .
                                   
   City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Numbering System
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Commissioners, this Code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Ponca City. This
Code shall be known and cited as the CITY CODE OF PONCA CITY (2017), and is
hereby published by authority of the Board of Commissioners of the City of
Ponca City, Oklahoma, and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (Ord. 6247, 10-9-2017, eff. 11-1-
2017)
1-1-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   Numbering System Explained: For the purposes of internal references in
this Code and citation by its users, each section of the legislation included
in this Code has been assigned a number that indicates the title in which the
legislation is included, the chapter or article as the case may be in which it
is found and the location of the section within that chapter or article, as
follows:
 
Example: 5-1A-2
First number ( 5-1A-2) Title of Code
Second number (5-1A-2) Chapter of title
Letter (5-1A-2)        Article of chapter
Third number (5-1A-2)  Section of chapter and/or article
 
   B.   Referencing Code Provisions: References or citations made in a form
other than the foregoing will not defeat the intent of a user in citing this
Code when that intent is otherwise clear. This Code is to be construed
liberally to carry out its intent and purpose. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Effect: Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed
in such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Commissioners to make
the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that
reference to the "city code of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma", shall be
understood and intended to include such additions and amendments. (1980 Code §
2-35; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Manner: All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code
which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion
herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any
part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded
from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted
as a new Code of ordinances by the Board of Commissioners. (1980 Code § 2-36)
   C.   Language: Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be
made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this
Code in substantially the following language: "That section           of the
city code of Ponca City, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows: ...".
The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired. (1980 Code § 2-37;
amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   New material:
      1.   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: "That the city code of Ponca
City, Oklahoma, is hereby amended by adding a section (or chapter, article or
other designation as the case may be), to be numbered          , which reads as
follows: ...". The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
      2.   In lieu of subsection D1 of this section, when the board of
commissioners desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature
embracing a subject not previously existing in the code, which the board of
commissioners desires to incorporate into the code, a provision in
substantially the following language may be made part of such ordinance: "It is
the intention of the board of commissioners, and it is hereby ordained, that
the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of the city code
of Ponca City, Oklahoma, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered
to accomplish such intention". (1980 Code § 2-38; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Repeal: All sections, chapters, articles or other provisions of this
code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number,
chapter, article number, or other number, as the case may be. (1980 Code § 2-
39)
   F.   Subject To General Penalty: In case of the amendment by the board of
commissioners of any section of this code for which a penalty is not provided,
the general penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such
amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same
chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate
to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed
therein. (1980 Code § 2-40)
   G.   Supplementation Of Code:
      1.   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of
commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners or adopted
by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and
all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
identified that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
      2.   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code
which have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
      3.   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
         a.   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subsections;
         b.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subsections of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
         c.   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subsections to
be inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material,
change existing section or other subsection numbers;
         d.   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter", or "this article", as the case may be, or to "sections       to
     " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the code which
embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the code);
and
         e.   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code. (1980 Code
§ 2-41; amd. 2003 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this code by authorized persons shall be permitted.
(1980 Code § 1-9)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeals
1-2-4: Court Proceedings
1-2-5: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEALS:
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at
the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall
not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect,
nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of such repeal, of
an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(1980 Code § 1-13)
1-2-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity,
unenforceability or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this code. (1980 Code §
1-12)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction, Definitions
1-3-2: Incorporation By Reference
1-3-3: Parenthetical Information
1-3-4: Catchlines Of Sections
1-3-5: Reference To Code, Conflicts
1-3-6: Police Power Extended To City Property
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of this city, the
following rules of construction and definitions shall be observed, unless such
construction or definition would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of
the board of commissioners, would be repugnant to the context of the provisions
or the context clearly requires otherwise.
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common
and approved usage of language; but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be
construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(1980 Code § 1-2)
The rules of construction and definitions set forth in this section shall not
be applied to any section of this code or city ordinance which shall contain
any express provision excluding such construction or definition, or when the
subject matter or context of such provisions or ordinances may be repugnant
thereto. (1980 Code § 1-3)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The governing body of the city.
CITY: The city of Ponca City in the county of Kay in the state of Oklahoma.
CODE: This city code of Ponca City as designated and cited in section
1-1-1 of this title.
COMPENSATION: For the purpose of section 76 of the city charter, "compensation"
shall mean monetary remuneration, but shall not include reasonable
reimbursement of expenses and costs related to such public service.
COUNTY: The county of Kay in the state of Oklahoma.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears in this code requiring an
officer of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be
construed to authorize such officer to designate, delegate and authorize
subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless
the terms of the provision or section expressly designate otherwise.
EASEMENT: A right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which the
owner of one parcel of land may have in the land of another. A right in the
owner of one parcel of land, by reason of such ownership, to use the land of
another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right in
the owner.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
IN THE CITY: The words "in the city" or "in this city" mean and include any
territory within the corporate limits of this city and the police jurisdiction
thereof, and any other territory over which regulatory power has been conferred
on the city by general or special act, except as otherwise specified.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give authority to three (3) or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise specifically
declared.
LAW: Any statute, ordinance or regulation promulgated by the United States, the
state, the county, the city or any agency thereof, as well as the rules and
regulations of other bodies politic that may be appropriate.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUMBER: Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural, and
any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
OATH: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases
in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such
cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm"
and "affirmed".
OFFICER: Any person designated as such by section 46 of the city charter, but
such person shall not be considered an officer for purposes of state law. For
purposes of state law, an "officer" is any person who is elected to an office
in the municipal government or is appointed to fill an unexpired term of an
elected officer, and the city clerk and the city treasurer, or as may be
amended hereafter by state law.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named in this code they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in
the city.
OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AGENCIES: Whenever reference is made
to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city by
title only, i.e., "mayor", "clerk", "manager", "chief of police", etc., they
shall be deemed to refer to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or
other agencies of this city.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the context of
the provision requires it.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Shall include and be applied to a firm, partnership, association,
corporation, organization, club, society, group acting as a unit, or body
politic and corporate, as well as to an individual.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, evidences of debt, things
in action, and any other species of property, except real property.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The "next before" and the "next after", respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real, personal and mixed property.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any public way, park, cemetery, school yard or open space
adjacent thereto; any public lake or stream; and any place or business open to
the use of the public in general, open to public view or to which the public
has access.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk or other
public thoroughfare.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any section of this code or city ordinance
shall require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to
be given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only
as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with
such notice.
RESIDENCE: The place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to
which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person
eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps
shall be deemed to be his residence.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
SHALL, MAY: The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is discretionary.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line of
the roadway and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write, when his
name is written near such mark and is witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as witness.
STATE; THIS STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STREET: Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys,
lanes, viaducts, bridges, public ways and approaches thereto and other public
thoroughfares in the city devoted to public use.
TENANT, OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall mean any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as well
as the past or present.
WRITING, WRITTEN: Includes typewriting, printing on paper and any other mode of
representing words and letters.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1980 Code § 1-2; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-2: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
All standard codes, rules, regulations, and other subject matter herein or
hereafter properly incorporated by reference, together with subsequent
amendments thereto, pursuant to state law, and future documents incorporated by
reference shall be kept and preserved in the office of the city clerk. (1980
Code § 1-4)
1-3-3: PARENTHETICAL INFORMATION:
The matter in parentheses at the ends of sections in this code is for
information only and is not a part of this code. Citations to the 1980 code of
the city (1980 Code §        ) and to later ordinances indicate only the source
of such section, and the text may or may not be changed by this code. (1980
Code § 1-5; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-4: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS:
The catchlines of sections of this code are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be
titles of such sections, nor as any part of any section, nor, unless expressly
so provided, shall they be so deemed when any section, including its catchline,
is amended or reenacted. (1980 Code § 1-6; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-5: REFERENCE TO CODE, CONFLICTS:
In addition to the rules of construction and definitions specified in this
chapter, the following rules shall be observed in the construction of this
code:
   A.   All references to titles, chapters, articles or sections are to the
titles, chapters, articles and sections of this code unless otherwise
specified. (1980 Code § 1-7; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   If the provisions of different chapters of this code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all
matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such chapter.
   C.   If conflicting provisions be found in different sections of the same
chapter, the provisions of the section which is last in numerical order shall
prevail unless such construction would be inconsistent with the meaning of such
chapter. (1980 Code § 1-7)
1-3-6: POLICE POWER EXTENDED TO CITY PROPERTY:
The police power of the city is hereby extended to include all lands or
property owned or leased by the city or any agency of the city and the general
ordinances of the city shall be applicable on such property. (1980 Code § 1-8)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Penalty Not Exclusive
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the City
an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or ordinance of said city the doing of
any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such
provision or the failure to perform any such act shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding the maximum amount of money or imprisonment authorized by
Oklahoma Statutes for municipal courts not of record. No penalty shall be
imposed by the court, including fine and costs, which is greater than that
established by the statutes of the state for the same offense.
   B.   State Authorized Assessments: Court costs, subpoena costs, plus the
fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses along with all applicable state
assessments shall be assessed in an amount not to exceed those authorized by
state statute for municipal criminal courts not of record. The payment of all
such assessments shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any and
all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law. The City shall retain
such portion of state assessments as by law permitted.
   C.   Authorization to Issue Citations: The City Manager, through his/her
agents, is hereby authorized to issue a citation for violation of this Code.
Any agent of the City who meets the minimum requirements set forth in 11 O.S.,
22-111.1, shall be authorized to prepare and issue a citation. Citations may be
issued in person or by Certificate of Mailing. (Ord. 6033, 1-9-2006; amd. Ord.
6305. 5-9-2022)
1-4-2: PENALTY NOT EXCLUSIVE:
   A.   License Or Permit Revocation: The imposition of a penalty under the
provisions of this code shall not prevent the revocation or suspension of any
license, franchise or permit issued or granted under the provisions of this
code.
   B.   Nuisance Abatement: In the event any violation of this code is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, such nuisance may
be summarily abated by the city in addition to the imposition of a fine. (1980
Code § 1-11)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that an order to abate a nuisance or the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter sections 49, 50, 51, 62 and 63.
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the board of commissioners will
be held at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. on the second and fourth Monday of
each month and at two o'clock (2:00) P.M. on the first and third Monday of each
month in the commissioners room of the city hall or at such other locations as
specified in the public notice of said meeting or as to which the commission
may, from time to time, adjourn and reconvene.
   B.   Special Or Emergency Meetings: Special or emergency meetings may be
held at any time and place in the city upon call by the mayor or any four (4)
members of the board of commissioners.
   C.   Conformance With Statute: All meetings, whether regular, special or
emergency, shall conform to requirements of the Oklahoma public meetings act 1
. (1980 Code § 2-16; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 25 OS § 301 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers And Personnel
1-6-2: City Manager
1-6-3: Finance Director
1-6-4: Compliance With Fair Labor Standards Act
1-6-1: OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Officers Enumerated: The following positions are officers and are
nominated and confirmed annually and serve at the pleasure (at will) of the
board of commissioners for the good of the service:
      City manager
      Finance director/city clerk/city treasurer
      Police chief
      City attorney
      Municipal judge
      Fire chief
      General manager of Ponca City Energy
      Alternate municipal judge (Ord. 6225, 10-24-2016)
   B.   Other Employees And Personnel: Employment of all other employees and
personnel shall be the responsibility of the city manager. Such employees and
personnel shall serve at the pleasure (at will) of the city manager for the
good of the service.
   C.   Appointive Officers: The employment of all appointive officers and
employees is at will, and such officers and employees shall serve at the
pleasure of their appointive authority. No appointive officer or employee shall
have any right to employment, contractual or otherwise, or any property or
liberty interest in their continued employment. (1980 Code § 2-54; amd. 2003
Code)
1-6-2: CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Office Created: The office of city manager is hereby created. (1980
Code § 2-60)
   B.   Powers, Duties: The powers and duties of the city manager shall consist
of the following:
      1.   The power and duty to assist the board of commissioners in the
making of policies, through preliminary planning, recommendation, technical
assistance, reporting and providing information.
      2.   The power and duty to plan how the policies adopted by the board of
commissioners, or the people, may best be administered and executed, and to
organize the administrative personnel and the physical facilities of the city
to carry out such policies.
      3.   The power and duty to direct, control, supervise and coordinate all
administrative agencies, departments, officers and employees of the city,
including the officers listed in subsection 1-6-1A of this chapter.
      4.   The power and duty to see that proper records (financial and other)
are kept, and to keep the board of commissioners informed by making reports and
otherwise.
      5.   To see that the laws, ordinances and other policies of the city are
properly administered and executed.
      6.   To prepare a budget annually and submit it to the board of
commissioners, be responsible for the administration of the budget after it
goes into effect, and recommend to the board any changes in the budget which he
deems desirable.
      7.   To submit to the board of commissioners a report as of the end of
the fiscal year of the finances and administrative activities of the city for
the preceding year.
      8.   To keep the board advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city, and make such recommendations as may seem to him desirable.
      9.   To appoint, promote, demote, suspend and terminate all employees and
personnel whose appointment is reserved to the city manager and whose positions
are not listed in subsection 1-6-1A of this chapter.
      10.   To perform such additional powers as are necessarily implied to
carry out his duties and responsibilities.
      11.   To perform such other duties as the board of commissioners may
prescribe. (1980 Code § 2-61; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Acting City Manager: In case of the temporary absence, disability or
suspension of the city manager, the board of commissioners may appoint an
acting city manager to serve until such absence, disability or suspension
ceases. The board may remove an acting city manager at any time. When there is
an assistant city manager, he shall be acting city manager in such cases until
the board provides otherwise. (1980 Code § 2-63)
   D.   Vacancies: In case of a vacancy in office, the same shall be filled
under the provisions of sections 62 and 68 of the city charter. (1980 Code § 2-
65)
1-6-3: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Serve As Clerk And Treasurer: The chief financial officer of the city
shall be known as the finance director. The finance director will, among other
things, serve as the city clerk and city treasurer. (2003 Code)
   B.   Bond: The finance director shall give a good and sufficient bond in the
sum of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00), conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of all the duties of his office, such bond to be made in
favor of the city. (1980 Code § 2-74; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Duties As Clerk: The city clerk shall have the custody of all
ordinances, books and records of the city; he shall attest all documents signed
by the mayor and affix the seal of the city thereto where required; the city
clerk shall act as clerk of the board of commissioners and shall be present at
all of its meetings; he shall keep the records of paving districts and other
special assessments; he shall collect, receive, and deposit all monies due the
city daily; and shall do and perform all the duties in relation thereto as city
clerk as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners, the state statutes,
the provisions of this code and city ordinances. The city clerk, when
designated, shall supervise the city elections. (1980 Code § 2-73; amd. 2003
Code)
1-6-4: COMPLIANCE WITH FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT:
For purposes of interpretation of section 164 of the city charter, said charter
section shall be interpreted to be consistent with the federal fair labor
standards act, providing for executive and administrative exemptions, adopting
the definitions of "work week" and "overtime compensation". In the event of any
inconsistency or variance in the language or in an interpretation between said
section of the city charter and the fair labor standards act, the fair labor
standards act shall prevail. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Precincts And Voting Locations
1-7-2: Conduct Of Elections
1-7-1: PRECINCTS AND VOTING LOCATIONS:
In the event the city clerk is directed to conduct a special election, the city
clerk shall be responsible for designating precincts and voting locations.
(1980 Code § 12-1; amd. 2003 Code)
1-7-2: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
City elections shall be conducted pursuant to regulations and requirements of
state law, and shall be in compliance with section 122 of the city charter.
(2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL CRIMINAL COURT 1
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Jurisdiction
1-8-3: Principal Officer Of Court
1-8-4: Prosecuting Officer
1-8-5: Assistant City Attorney
1-8-6: Court Clerk
1-8-7: Municipal Judge
1-8-8: Rules And General Procedure
1-8-9: Jury Trials
 
Notes
1 1. See section 73 of the city charter.
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
COURT: The municipal criminal court of this city.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal criminal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state,
provisions of this code, and this chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state
wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (1980 Code § 11-16)
1-8-2: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any provision of this code or ordinance of
this city is charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court
in accordance with applicable law. (1980 Code § 17)
1-8-3: PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF COURT:
The chief of police shall be the principal officer of the court. (1980 Code §
11-18)
1-8-4: PROSECUTING OFFICER:
The city attorney, or his duly designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He shall prosecute all alleged violations of the
provisions of this code and ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in
his discretion, to prosecute and resist appeals, proceedings in error and
review from this court to any other courts of the state, and to represent this
city in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (1980 Code § 11-
19)
1-8-5: ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY:
There is hereby created the office of assistant city attorney. The board of
commissioners shall appoint an assistant city attorney to serve for a term of
one year to be appointed at the first regular meeting of September along with
city officers. He shall be appointed in the same manner as provided for in the
charter of the city for city clerk, city attorney and city treasurer. (1980
Code § 11-20; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-6: COURT CLERK:
   A.   Designated; Duties: That person designated by the city manager, shall
be the clerk of the court. He shall assist the judge in recording the
proceedings of the court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He
shall administer oaths required in proceedings in the dockets of the court. He
shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of the
court as the judge shall direct. He shall receive and receipt for forfeitures,
fees, deposits and sums of monies payable to the court. He shall daily pay to
the finance director all monies so received by him, except such special
deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him for special
purposes. All monies paid to the finance director shall be placed in the
general fund of the city, or in such other fund as the board of commissioners
may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the city government, or as
otherwise provided, in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed. (1980 Code § 11-21; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Bond: The clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form provided by
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111, in the sum of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00). When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the board of
commissioners for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the city
clerk and retained in the city archives. (1980 Code § 11-22; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-7: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications: There shall be two (2) judges of the court; namely a
municipal judge and an alternate municipal judge. A judge must be duly licensed
to practice law in the state. A judge may engage in the practice of law in
other courts, but he/she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his/her
duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein.
   B.   Term: The official term of each judge shall be one year, expiring as
other appointments made pursuant to section 62 of the charter.
   C.   Alternate Municipal Judge: The alternate municipal judge shall sit as
acting judge of the court in any matter if the municipal judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court,
      2.   Unable to act as judge,
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
   D.   Acting Judge: If, at any time, there is no municipal judge or alternate
municipal judge, duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the
mayor shall appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this
section for the judge, who shall preside, as acting judge, over the court in
the disposition of pending matters until such time as the municipal judge or
alternate municipal judge shall be available.
   E.   Filling Vacancy: Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of any
judge, such vacancy shall be filled pursuant to the procedure provided in
section 62 of the charter. (Ord. 6016, 5-23-2005)
   F.   Retired Judges: Any person who has been a judge of the municipal court
and who has ceased to hold that position under honorable circumstances is
hereby determined to be a "retired judge" and shall be entitled to all the
rights and privileges of such a position as may be conferred by state law and
these ordinances. (Ord. 6015, 4-11-2005)
1-8-8: RULES AND GENERAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Of District Court Rules: In all trials, as to matters not
covered in this chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal criminal
courts, or by rules duly promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the
procedure applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall
apply to the extent that they can be made effective. (1980 Code § 11-52)
   B.   Rules Authorized: The judges may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state, the provisions of this code, and with the ordinances of this
city, for the proper conduct of the business of the court. (1980 Code § 11-53)
   C.   Enforcement Of Rules, Orders: Obedience to the orders, rules and
judgments made by the judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who
may fine or imprison for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or
committed against process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same
extent as the district courts of this state. (1980 Code § 11-54)
   D.   Change Of Venue Denied; Disqualification Of Judge: In prosecutions
before the court no change of venue shall be allowed; but the judge before whom
the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he may be disqualified
from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for
courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by the
alternate or acting judge, appointed as provided in this chapter. (1980 Code §
11-55; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Direction Of Writs, Process: All writs or process of the court shall be
directed, in his official title, to the chief of police. (1980 Code § 11-56)
   F.   Style Of Prosecutions: All prosecutions for violations of the
provisions of this code and ordinances of this city shall be styled "The City
of Ponca City v. (naming defendant or defendants)". (1980 Code § 11-57)
   G.   Initiation Of Complaints: Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions
in the court shall be initiated by the filing of a written complaint,
subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting forth
concisely the offense charged. (1980 Code § 11-58)
   H.   Issuance, Service Of Summons:
      1.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of a provision of
this code or a city ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a
warrant of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a
citation or has been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a
summons, naming the person charged, specifying his address or place of
residence, if known, stating the offense with which he is charged and giving
him notice to answer the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a
provision for the official return of the summons, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
      2.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest. (1980 Code § 11-
59)
   I.   Issuance, Execution Of Arrest Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in
the provisions of this code or city ordinances, upon the filing of a complaint
approved by endorsement by the city attorney or by the judge, there shall be
issued a warrant of arrest, in substantially the following form:
The City of Ponca City to the Chief of Police of the City of Ponca City,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has
been committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded
therefore forthwith to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and bring
(insert him, her or them, as appropriate) before me, at (naming the place).
Witness my hand this        day of           , 20     .
                                                          
       Judge of the Municipal Criminal Court
       of the City of Ponca City
(1980 Code § 11-60)
   J.   Bail For Appearance: Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in
response to citation or summons, or at any other time before trial, before or
after arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving
bail for his appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by the judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case
of arrests made at night or under other conditions of emergency or when the
judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond, not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided for such
offense charged. (1980 Code § 11-61)
   K.   Arraignment: Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The judge, or the city attorney, shall read the complaint
to the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial
by jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him
whether he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the
court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for
subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury
trial, the court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a
later date. (1980 Code § 11-62)
   L.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof. (1980 Code § 11-63)
   M.   Personal Appearance: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial. (1980 Code § 11-64)
   N.   Procedure On Guilty Plea: If the defendant pleads guilty or is
convicted after trial, the court shall defer sentencing or render judgment
thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed by the applicable
provision of this code or city ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
(1980 Code § 11-65; amd. 2003 Code)
   O.   Witness Fees:
      1.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than police officers
or peace officers, shall be entitled to such fees per day, plus an amount for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the
place of attendance if their residence is outside the limits of the city, as
provided by 28 Oklahoma Statutes section 81. However, no witness shall receive
fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same
travel. (1980 Code § 11-66; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for
each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of said witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city. (1980 Code § 11-66)
   P.   Entry Of Judgment: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket. (1980
Code § 11-67)
   Q.   Discharge Upon Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, he must be
discharged at once. (1980 Code § 11-68)
   R.   Suspension Or Deferment Of Sentence: After conviction and sentence, the
judge may defer or suspend sentence, in accordance with the provisions of, and
subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by, sections 27-123 and 27-124
of title 11, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
   S.   Court Costs: If judgment of conviction is entered, the judge shall tax
the costs to the defendant in such sum up to the maximum permissible by state
statute plus any additional fees required by statute, all of which the
defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that may be imposed.
   T.   Execution Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county, or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence. (1980 Code § 11-71; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-9: JURY TRIALS:
   A.   In all prosecutions in the municipal court for any offense for which
the municipality, with the concurrence of the court, seeks imposition of a fine
of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) excluding court costs, or
imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment, a jury trial shall be had
unless waived by the defendant and the municipality. In prosecutions for all
other offenses, or in cases wherein a jury trial is waived by the defendant and
the municipality, trial shall be to the court. At arraignment, the defendant
shall be asked whether he demands or waives trial by jury and this election
shall be recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket
of the court respecting proceedings in the case. The City Attorney or Assistant
City Attorney may announce at the time of the arraignment or at any time at
least two weeks prior to trial, that the maximum fine in the case shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or less and that no jail time will be imposed; such
announcement shall then be binding on the court.
   B.   List Of Jurors:
      1.   Drawing Of Names: Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial
of cases by jury, the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of
the district court for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated
number of jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to
be drawn from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the
state, and to be certified by the clerk of the district court to the judge of
the municipal criminal court. The request shall be made in time for the list to
be certified and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the
calendar begins.
      2.   Time Limit; Additional Drawing: If it is anticipated that the
completion of the calendar will require more than two (2) weeks, the request
for jurors shall specify the number required for each two (2) week period, as
provided by law for the drawing of jurors for the district court. Additional
drawing of other names also may be requested by the judge, when necessary, in
accordance with the law for such additional drawings in the district court.
      3.   Compliance With State Law: If, in the future, provisions of the law
respecting the drawing of jury lists for the district court are changed, the
judge shall take such steps, in requesting jury lists for the court, as are
necessary to comply with the state law. (1980 Code § 11-82)
   C.   Juror's Summons:
      1.   Form: Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the court shall
cause a summons substantially in the following form to be issued and served
upon each person on the list:
State of Oklahoma )
         ) ss
   County of Kay )
To (name of juror) Greeting: You hereby are summoned to appear in the Municipal
Criminal Court for the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma, to be held at (specify the
address, room number, etc.) on the        day of         , 20    , at the hour
of (specify hour) to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in such
service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this        day of          , 20    .
                                                          
      Seal of Court   Clerk of the Municipal Criminal Court
         of the City of Ponca City, Oklahoma
(1980 Code § 11-83)
      2.   Service: Service of juror's summons shall be made as the judge may
prescribe by rule or direct by order, either in person upon the juror by the
chief of police or by any member of the police force of this city, or by the
clerk of the court, through certified mail, directed to the juror at his
address as given in the jury list, with request for a personally signed return
receipt. In any proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue,
evidence of the due mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his
staff and the presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly
signed by the addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly
received by the addressee and, therefore, that he was properly served
therewith. (1980 Code § 11-84)
   D.   Composition Of Jury: A jury in the court shall consist of six (6)
jurors, good and lawful men or women, residents of the city possessing the
qualifications of jurors in district court. (1980 Code §11-85)
   E.   Duty Of Jurors: After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together and
hear the proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in
public and in the presence of the defendant. (1980 Code § 11-86)
   F.   Votes Required For Verdict: A verdict of the jury may be rendered by
the vote of five (5) jurors. (1980 Code § 11-87)
   G.   Duties Of Judge: In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall
determine all questions of law, including questions as to the introduction of
evidence, arising during the trial. He also shall instruct the jury as to the
law. (1980 Code § 11-88)
   H.   Nature Of Verdict: The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be
general. When the jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict
publicly to the court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause
it to be so entered. (1980 Code § 11-89)
   I.   Discharge Restricted: The jury must not be discharged after the cause
is submitted to it until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good
cause, discharges it sooner; in which event, the court may proceed again to
trial and so on until a verdict is rendered. (1980 Code § 11-90)
   J.   Fees: Jurors shall receive for their services such sum as provided by
statute for municipal courts not of record, or in the absence of such statute,
then as provided for jurors in criminal trials in the district courts. Jurors
shall be paid out of the general funds of the city. (1980 Code § 11-91; amd.
2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6267, 5-28-2019)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNING DOCUMENTS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Transportation Plan Adopted
1-9-2: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
1-9-1: TRANSPORTATION PLAN ADOPTED:
The document entitled "The Ponca City Urban Area Long Range Transportation Plan
and Transportation Improvement Program" is hereby adopted and said document
shall be the reference for orderly growth and development of the transportation
system in the city. (1980 Code § 26-1)
1-9-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The document entitled "The Ponca City Master Plan 1985-2010 for the City of
Ponca City, Oklahoma", on file in the office of the city clerk and made a part
hereof, is hereby adopted and this document shall be the first reference for
policy on the orderly growth and development of the city. (1980 Code § 26-4)
TITLE 2
DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
LAW DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Department Established
2-1-2: City Attorney
2-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of law in the municipal government of
the city. (1980 Code § 2-102)
2-1-2: CITY ATTORNEY 1 :
   A.   Department Head: The head of the department of law shall be an officer
entitled city attorney. (1980 Code § 2-103)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city attorney shall have such powers and duties
as are prescribed by state law, the city charter, the provisions of this code
and city ordinance. (1980 Code § 2-104)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 69 and 70 of the city charter.
CHAPTER 2
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Department Established
2-2-2: Finance Director, Duties
2-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of finance in the municipal government
of the city. (1980 Code § 2-114)
2-2-2: FINANCE DIRECTOR, DUTIES:
The finance director shall supervise the city clerk's office, the utility
billing office and the accounting department. The finance director shall serve
as the city clerk and the city treasurer. (1980 Code § 2-115; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT/PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Department Established
2-3-2: Office Of Director Created
2-3-3: Qualifications
2-3-4: Duties And Responsibilities
2-3-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of emergency management/public safety
in the municipal government of the city. (1980 Code § 2-123)
2-3-2: OFFICE OF DIRECTOR CREATED:
The office of director of emergency management/public safety is hereby created.
(1980 Code § 2-124)
2-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The director of emergency management/public safety shall, prior to his
appointment to such office, have comprehensive knowledge of emergency
management, disaster preparedness, public safety communications, and safety and
training methods. He shall have demonstrated ability to foster and maintain
cooperative relationships with other department heads, city officials, federal
and state agencies, and the general public. Such officer should demonstrate
resourcefulness, sound judgment in emergencies, demonstrated integrity, tact,
and be in good physical condition. He shall also have a good knowledge of the
geography of the city. (1980 Code § 2-125; amd. 2003 Code)
2-3-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Generally: The director of emergency management/public safety shall:
      1.   Perform the administrative duties in directing the activities and
personnel for emergency management, and such other areas as may be assigned.
(1980 Code § 2-127; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Be responsible for meeting with the public, both individually and
collectively, concerning emergency management, public safety communications.
      3.   Be responsible to see that all reports are prepared as may be
required by the city manager, city commission and state and federal agencies
regarding emergency management.
      4.   Attend state, regional and national emergency management information
agency meetings and seminars as may be required by the city manager.
      5.   Have such other duties as may be assigned. (1980 Code § 2-126)
   B.   Coordination Of Activities: The director shall evaluate and coordinate
all the safety activities of all departments of the city, and where he finds
deficiencies he shall make recommendations to the heads of the departments for
the correction of all unsafe procedures. (1980 Code § 2-127)
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The director of emergency management/public
safety shall make all rules and regulations for the operation of the department
as may be necessary subject to the approval of the board of commissioners.
(1980 Code § 2-128)
CHAPTER 4
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-4-1: Department Established
2-4-2: City Engineer
2-4-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an engineering department in the municipal
government of the city. (1980 Code § 2-137)
2-4-2: CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   Department Head Created: The head of the engineering department shall
be entitled the city engineer. (1980 Code § 2-138)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city engineer shall make plans and
specifications for the engineering projects of the city, and shall supervise
all such projects, regardless of whether they are being done by contract or by
city personnel, except when another engineer is appointed especially for a
particular project. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be
prescribed by law, the city charter, the provisions of this code or city
ordinance. (1980 Code § 2-139; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-5-1: Department Established
2-5-2: Community Development Director
2-5-3: Inspectors
2-5-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a community development department in the municipal
government of the city. (2001 Code)
2-5-2: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the community development department shall
be entitled the community development director.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The community development director shall administer
the city's current and advance planning ordinances and laws, advise the
respective planning and/or appeal boards and commissions, shall have such
powers and duties as may be prescribed by state statutes, city charter, the
provisions of this code, and by city ordinance. The community development
director shall have administrative supervision of the code enforcement division
within the city administration. (2003 Code)
2-5-3: INSPECTORS:
Subject to supervision and control by the community development director, there
shall be established a plumbing, mechanical, electrical 1 , and building
inspector. Each inspector shall enforce the ordinances, codes and laws relating
to plumbing, mechanical, electrical, buildings and property maintenance, and
shall otherwise perform other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance. The
phrase "building official", and "code official", when referred to in the
ordinances and laws of the city, shall be deemed to mean one or more of the
code inspectors. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-3 of this code.
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-6-1: Department Established
2-6-2: Public Works Director
2-6-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of public works within the
administration of the city. (1980 Code § 2-151)
2-6-2: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the public works department shall be an
officer entitled director of public works. (1980 Code § 2-152)
   B.   Duties: The public works director shall have supervision and control of
the city garage, streets and drainage, engineering, traffic engineering, and
administrative supervision of the golf division. (1980 Code § 2-153; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 7
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
2-7-1: Department Established
2-7-2: Chief Of Police
2-7-3: Reserve Police Officers
2-7-4: Disposition Of Personal Property, Money Or Legal Tender
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 74 and 75 of the city charter.
2-7-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a police department in the municipal government of
the city. (1980 Code § 28-16)
2-7-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the police department shall be an officer
entitled the chief of police. (1980 Code § 28-17)
   B.   Powers, Duties: The chief of police shall have such powers and duties
as may be prescribed by law, the city charter, this code and city ordinance.
(1980 Code § 28-18)
2-7-3: RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: Reserve police officers may be appointed by the chief of
police. Reserve police officers shall have the powers, duties and functions as
set forth in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 34-101B and this code. Reserve police
officers shall serve on a part time basis and shall perform duties only while
on authorized duty. (2003 Code)
   B.   Minimum Requirements: Reserve officers appointed must meet minimum
requirements as established by 70 Oklahoma Statutes section 3311. (1980 Code §
28-32)
   C.   Hours Of Duty Limited: The duty of reserve municipal police officers is
limited to not more than one hundred ten (110) hours per calendar month. (1980
Code § 28-33; amd. 2003 Code)
2-7-4: DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY, MONEY OR LEGAL TENDER:
The chief of police is authorized to dispose of personal property, money or
legal tender which has come into his possession in accordance with 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 34-104, or as such provision is hereafter amended. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
2-8-1: Department Established
2-8-2: Chief Of Fire Department
2-8-3: Ambulance Service
2-8-4: Sole Provider Ambulance System
 
Notes
1 1. See section 142 of the city charter.
2-8-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a fire department in the municipal government of
the city. (1980 Code § 14-16)
2-8-2: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the fire department shall be an officer
entitled fire chief or chief of the fire department. (1980 Code § 14-17)
   B.   Powers; Duties: The fire chief shall have such powers and duties as may
be prescribed by law, the city charter, the provisions of this code and the
ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 14-18)
2-8-3: AMBULANCE SERVICE:
   A.   Service Created: There is hereby created an emergency medical services
program within the fire department, to include ambulance service. (1980 Code §
14-29)
   B.   Scope Of Service: EMS/ambulance service shall be furnished throughout
the city and its general vicinity as determined by the fire chief through
standard operating procedures for the fire department. (1980 Code § 14-30)
   C.   Rates: (Rep. by Ord. 6023, 6-27-2005)
   D.   Administration Generally: The ambulance service is placed under the
fire chief or such other persons as may be designated by him for administrative
control. (1980 Code § 14-32)
   E.   General Operation: The operation of the ambulance service shall be
performed by the members of the fire department in such manner as shall be
ordered by the fire chief or by representatives designated by him. (1980 Code §
14-33)
   F.   Inspection Of Equipment: The fire chief, or some member of said
department authorized by him, shall once in each month examine the condition of
ambulances and all ambulance equipment and make a report on the condition of
the same to the mayor. (1980 Code § 14-34)
   G.   Records: The fire chief shall keep a complete record in his office of
all runs made by the city ambulances, the names of the patients, the point
where the patient was received and the place to which the patient was
delivered. (1980 Code § 14-35)
2-8-4: SOLE PROVIDER AMBULANCE SYSTEM:
   A.   The emergency medical service operated by the city of Ponca City, or
its assignee, shall be the sole provider for all of the ground vehicle
ambulance service, both emergency and nonemergency, within the corporate city
limits and shall hold the city's exclusive ambulance license, as authorized by
state statute.
   B.   All ambulance calls originating within the corporate city limits of the
city must utilize the emergency medical service of the city of Ponca City or
its assignee.
   C.   All ambulance services operating outside of the corporate city limits
of the city must first obtain authorization from the emergency medical service
dispatch prior to operating within the city of Ponca City. (Ord. 6023, 6-27-
2005)
CHAPTER 9
LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-9-1: Department Established
2-9-2: Library Director
2-9-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a library department in the municipal government of
the city. (1980 Code § 19-16)
2-9-2: LIBRARY DIRECTOR:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the library department shall be entitled
"library director". (1980 Code § 19-17; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The library director shall have supervision and
control of the city library and shall have such other powers and duties as may
be prescribed by this code or delegated from time to time by board of
commissioners. (1980 Code § 19-18; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-10-1: Department Established
2-10-2: Park And Recreation Director
2-10-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a park and recreation department in the municipal
government of the city. (1980 Code § 23-16)
2-10-2: PARK AND RECREATION DIRECTOR:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the park and recreation department shall
be an officer entitled the "park and recreation director". (1980 Code § 23-17)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The park and recreation director shall have the
supervision and control of all parks, playgrounds and recreational areas
operated by the city and shall maintain and improve them. He shall also have
such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by this code and city
ordinance. (1980 Code § 23-19)
CHAPTER 11
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-11-1: Department Established
2-11-2: General Manager Of Ponca City Energy
2-11-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an electric department in the municipal government
of the city. This department is responsible for operation of the electric
system of the city under the auspices of the Ponca City utility authority.
(1980 Code § 29-35; amd. 2003 Code)
2-11-2: GENERAL MANAGER OF PONCA CITY ENERGY:
   A.   Department Head: The head of the electric department shall be an
officer entitled the general manager of Ponca City energy. This person shall be
primarily responsible for daily operations of Ponca City energy. (1980 Code §
29-36; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The general manager of Ponca City energy shall have
the supervision and control of the electric system, through the Ponca City
utility authority, and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by
law, the city charter, the provisions of this code and city ordinance. (1980
Code § 29-37; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AGENCIES
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Commission Created; Appointment
3-1A-2: Composition
3-1A-3: Terms
3-1A-4: Officers
3-1A-5: Compensation
3-1A-6: Quorum, Voting
3-1A-7: Rules And Regulations
3-1A-8: Duties, Powers And Functions
3-1A-9: Personnel
3-1A-10: Planning Commission Act As Zoning Commission
3-1A-11: Traffic Evaluation And Planning
3-1A-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created in and for the city a planning commission. The mayor
shall appoint the members of the city planning commission subject to approval
and confirmation by the board of city commissioners. (1980 Code §§ 26-21, 26-
23)
3-1A-2: COMPOSITION:
The city planning commission shall consist of nine (9) citizens of the city as
hereinafter provided. The members of the commission shall be nominated and
appointed solely with reference to their fitness and without reference to party
affiliation, and shall represent, insofar as possible, different professions
and occupations existing in the city. (1980 Code § 26-22)
3-1A-3: TERMS:
The members of the city planning commission shall hold office for a term of
three (3) years, and until their successors are appointed and qualified;
provided, however, that they shall be appointed in such a manner that the terms
of three (3) members shall expire each year. (1980 Code § 26-24; amd. 2003
Code)
3-1A-4: OFFICERS:
The members of the city planning commission shall meet within two (2) weeks
after their appointment and confirmation and organize by electing from their
members a chairman and vice chairman. (1980 Code § 26-26; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1A-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the city planning commission shall serve as such without
compensation. (1980 Code § 26-29)
3-1A-6: QUORUM, VOTING:
   A.   Quorum: Five (5) members of the city planning commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and an affirmative majority
vote of the quorum shall be required to approve any item of business. (1980
Code § 26-25; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Constraints On Voting: A planning commission member shall not vote on
any question or matter being considered by the planning commission in which he
or she shall have a direct personal or financial interest. (1980 Code § 26-28)
3-1A-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The members of the city planning commission shall adopt from time to time
bylaws, rules and regulations, and amendments thereto, as may be necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this article. (1980 Code § 26-28)
3-1A-8: DUTIES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS:
   A.   Preparation Of Plans: It shall be the duty of the city planning
commission to prepare, from time to time, a master plan for the city. (1980
Code § 26-30; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Consideration, Investigation And Report:
      1.   The planning commission may consider and investigate any subject
matter tending to the development and betterment of the city, and make
recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to any
department of the municipal government, and for any purpose make, or cause to
be made, surveys, maps or plans. Before final action shall be taken by the
board of city commissioners, or any department of the city government, on the
location and design of any public building, statue, memorial, park, parkway,
boulevard, street and alley, playgrounds, public grounds, bridge, or the change
in location of any street or alley, or the grade thereof, such question shall
be submitted to the city planning commission for investigation and report.
      2.   All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in lots or plats, and
streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use within the corporate limits of the city, shall first be
submitted to the city planning commission for its approval or rejection. (1980
Code § 26-32)
3-1A-9: PERSONNEL:
The city planning commission shall have the power and authority to employ
engineers, attorneys, clerks and a secretary, or other help deemed necessary,
subject to the approval of the board of city commissioners. The salary and
compensation of such employees shall be fixed by the board of city
commissioners, and shall be paid out of the city treasury as other officers and
employees, and the necessary expenses incurred by said commission shall be paid
out of the city treasury as other legal expense of the city government. (1980
Code § 26-31)
3-1A-10: PLANNING COMMISSION ACT AS ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   The city planning commission is hereby appointed the zoning commission
of the city; and the city planning commission shall have the powers of a zoning
commission as provided by state law. Whether exercising the powers of a
planning commission or the powers of a zoning commission, it shall be legally
one board known as the city planning commission.
   B.   Exercising the powers of a zoning commission, the city planning
commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
expressly conferred upon it by state law and city charter or ordinance, and
those powers necessarily implied thereby. (1980 Code § 26-34; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1A-11: TRAFFIC EVALUATION AND PLANNING:
The planning commission shall have the authority to coordinate official traffic
activities of the several departments of the city, to supervise the preparation
and publication of traffic reports, to receive complaints having to do with
traffic matters, and to recommend to the board of commissioners and to the city
traffic engineer, the chief of the traffic division, and other city officials,
ways and means of improving traffic conditions and administration and
enforcement of traffic regulations. The approval of all or any part of said
recommendations of the planning commission relative to the placement of traffic
control devices for which said commission's recommendation is provided in this
chapter by the board of commissioners shall have the same force and effect of
law as if a separate ordinance were passed for each of said recommendations.
(Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
ARTICLE B. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Board Created
3-1B-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created in and for the city a board of adjustment. See section
11-17-8 of this code for provisions regarding the zoning board of appeals.
(1980 Code § 26-46; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PERSONNEL BOARD
SECTION:
3-2-1: Board Established; Composition
3-2-2: Qualifications
3-2-3: Terms Of Office
3-2-4: Organization And Officials
3-2-5: Advisor To Board
3-2-6: Vacancies; Removals
3-2-7: Compensation
3-2-8: Duties
3-2-9: Hearing Procedure; Scope Of Disciplinary Action
3-2-10: Investigations
3-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a personnel board consisting of three (3) members
appointed by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 2-241)
3-2-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members of the board shall be persons in sympathy with the application of merit
principles to public employment. No member of the board shall be employed by or
be an elected or appointed official of the city, or be a member of any local,
state or national committee of a political party or an official or member of a
committee in any partisan political club or organization. Nor shall any member
hold or be a candidate for an elective office. (1980 Code § 2-242)
3-2-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The members of the board shall serve for terms of three (3) years, provided
that in the appointment of the first board that the board of commissioners
shall appoint one member for a term of one year, one for a term of two (2)
years, and one for a term of three (3) years. (1980 Code § 2-243)
3-2-4: ORGANIZATION AND OFFICIALS:
Immediately after their appointment, and on the first meeting of each year
thereafter, the personnel board shall meet and organize by electing from their
number a president and secretary. The board shall establish its own rules of
procedure and establish its own meeting times. (1980 Code § 2-244)
3-2-5: ADVISOR TO BOARD:
The city manager shall serve as the city's advisor to the personnel board.
(1980 Code § 2-245)
3-2-6: VACANCIES; REMOVALS:
   A.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointments are made. (1980 Code § 2-246)
   B.   Removal From Office: Members appointed to the board may, after public
hearing, be removed by the board of commissioners for inefficiency, neglect of
duty or malfeasance in office. (1980 Code § 2-247)
3-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the personnel board shall serve without compensation but shall be
reimbursed for any expenses approved by the board of commissioners and incurred
in the performance of their assigned duties. (1980 Code § 2-248)
3-2-8: DUTIES:
In addition to the duties set forth elsewhere in this chapter, the personnel
board shall:
   A.   Advise the city manager and the board of commissioners on matters of
personnel policy and problems of personnel administration.
   B.   Represent the interest in the improvement of personnel administration
in the city's service.
   C.   Make any inquiry which it may consider desirable concerning personnel
administration in the city's service.
   D.   Make recommendations to the city manager or the board of commissioners
with respect thereto.
   E.   Hear appeals, receive evidence and determine facts, and affirm, modify
or reverse the administrative action appealed from and direct the proper action
to be taken. (1980 Code § 2-249)
3-2-9: HEARING PROCEDURE; SCOPE OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
   A.   Employee Request For Hearing: If an employee files a request with the
personnel board for a hearing as provided for in the city's personnel policy
and procedure manual, the personnel board shall schedule a hearing at the
earliest possible time, but in no case later than three (3) weeks from the date
of receipt of the request. At the discretion of the employee the hearing may be
private or open to the public.
   B.   Informal Procedure: In conducting the hearing, the procedure shall be
informal and it shall be assumed that the action complained of was taken in
good faith unless proved otherwise.
   C.   Action Favoring Employee: If the personnel board finds the action
appealed from was improper, the employee shall be reinstated to his/her former
position without loss of pay or the personnel board may impose a lesser form of
disciplinary action, but in no case shall disciplinary action be increased.
(1980 Code § 2-250)
3-2-10: INVESTIGATIONS:
During the course of any investigation or hearing, the personnel board may
request any employee of the city to attend to give witness. Any employee
refusing to do so may be subject to disciplinary action as provided in the
city's personnel policy and procedure manual. (1980 Code § 2-251)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT DIVISION; ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
3-3-1: Airport Division
3-3-2: Airport Advisory Board
3-3-1: AIRPORT DIVISION:
   A.   Division Established: There is hereby established an airport division
in the municipal government of the city. (1980 Code § 4-16)
   B.   Airport Manager:
      1.   Division Head: The head of the airport division shall be entitled
the airport manager. (1980 Code § 4-17)
      2.   Powers, Duties: The airport manager shall have the supervision and
control of the city airport, and shall serve as staff liaison to the airport
advisory committee. Such person shall have such other powers and duties as may
be prescribed by this code or city ordinance. (1980 Code § 4-18)
3-3-2: AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Board Established: There is hereby established in and for the city a
board which shall be known as the airport advisory board. (1980 Code § 4-33)
   B.   Composition: The airport advisory board shall be composed of five (5)
regular members. (1980 Code § 4-34)
   C.   Appointment: The members of the airport advisory board shall be
appointed in the manner provided by section 62 of the city charter. (1980 Code
§ 4-35)
   D.   Terms: There shall be five (5) regular members of the airport advisory
board, and they shall serve for terms of three (3) years each. Each shall serve
until their successor is duly appointed and qualified. (1980 Code § 4-36)
   E.   Ex Officio Member: The mayor shall be an ex officio member of the
airport advisory board. (1980 Code § 4-37)
   F.   Compensation For Expenses: The members of the airport advisory board
shall serve as such without pay or other remuneration except such expenses as
shall actually be expended and allowances as may be approved by the board of
commissioners. (1980 Code § 4-38)
   G.   Organization: The airport advisory board shall organize itself and
shall hold open meetings and keep records and minutes of its meetings as
provided by law. (1980 Code § 4-39)
   H.   Meetings: The airport advisory board shall meet on call as often as may
be required. (1980 Code § 4-40)
   I.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the airport advisory board to advise
and recommend to the board of commissioners the planning, development,
construction, enlargement, improvement, maintenance, equipment, operation,
regulation, protection and policing of the municipal airport and such
additional land adjacent to the airport as is subject to the jurisdiction of
the federal aviation association. (1980 Code § 4-41)
CHAPTER 4
E.W. MARLAND ESTATE COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-4-1: Commission Created; Appointment
3-4-2: Derivation Of Authority; Existence
3-4-3: Terms
3-4-4: Termination
3-4-5: Compensation
3-4-6: Ex Officio Members
3-4-7: General Purpose; Organization
3-4-8: Director Of Estate
3-4-9: Fiscal Officer
3-4-10: Derivation, Use Of Income
3-4-11: Status Of Personnel
3-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created under the general authority and
supervision of the board of commissioners a special commission, which shall be
known as the E.W. Marland Estate commission, herein referred to as the
commission. (1980 Code § 2-175)
   B.   Composition: The commission shall consist of eleven (11) persons,
including a chairman, all of whom shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of
age. (Ord. 6111, 11-23-2009)
   C.   Appointments: Nomination and confirmation of membership on the
commission shall be made on the second Monday of May each year and shall be in
compliance with section 62 of the city charter. (1980 Code § 2-179)
3-4-2: DERIVATION OF AUTHORITY; EXISTENCE:
The commission created under the provisions of this chapter shall derive its
authority from the board of commissioners. It shall continue in existence
perpetually or until dissolved by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 2-
176)
3-4-3: TERMS:
   A.   Terms Specified: Members shall be appointed to three (3) year terms,
staggered so that approximately one-third (1/3) of the members' terms expire
each year. (Ord. 6111, 11-23-2009)
   B.   Number Of Terms; Filling A Vacancy: No member of the commission shall
succeed himself for more than one additional term. Initial terms which fill a
vacancy shall not be included as a term.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring in the membership of the Marland Estate
commission shall be filled pursuant to section 62 of the city charter for the
balance of the unexpired term. (1980 Code § 2-180)
3-4-4: TERMINATION:
Failure to attend three (3) consecutive meetings by any member of the
commission shall result in a termination of membership for such member upon
recommendation of the city manager unless the board of commissioners shall
waive such absences for good cause shown. (1980 Code § 2-181)
3-4-5: COMPENSATION:
No compensation shall be paid for services rendered as a member of the E.W.
Marland Estate commission. Expenses incurred in direct service to said
commission, if approved by the city manager, may be submitted as a claim for
consideration by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 2-182)
3-4-6: EX OFFICIO MEMBERS:
The city manager shall be an ex officio member of the commission, along with
the director of the E.W. Marland Estate who shall serve as a resource to the
commission and provide appropriate staff services. (1980 Code § 2-183)
3-4-7: GENERAL PURPOSE; ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Submit Advice And Recommendations: The general purpose of "the
commission" shall be advisory in nature and as a recommending body to the board
of commissioners. The commission shall recommend policies, regulations, rules,
space allocation, uses and user fees, an annual budget and a plan for long
range development, which shall be reviewed and updated regularly. These
recommendations shall be consistent with the provisions of dedicatory
resolution 3204, relating to the E.W. Marland estate, wherein the E.W. Marland
estate has been perpetually dedicated to "... cultural, educational,
historical, recreational and similarly related purposes". It shall advise the
board of commissioners through the city manager; submit written reports as
required and minutes of its meetings and perform other functions required by
the board of commissioners.
   B.   Officers: The members of the Marland estate commission shall, in May of
each year, elect the following officers: chairperson, vice chairperson and such
other offices as it may deem necessary. In the event the commission is unable
to successfully fill either of these offices by means of election, the mayor
may be asked to fill the office(s) by appointment. The officers shall be
elected for a one year term. Further excepting, that no officer shall serve
more than two (2) successive terms in the same office. The commission may
create an annual program of work to achieve the long range plan and may
structure itself through committees and task forces to accomplish the program
of work. The commission shall prepare and submit to the board of commissioners
an annual report reflecting progress of and direction for the outlined program
of work.
   C.   Meetings: The members of the Marland estate commission shall meet at
least once monthly, the time and place to be determined by the commission.
(1980 Code § 2-184)
3-4-8: DIRECTOR OF ESTATE:
The office of director of the E.W. Marland estate is hereby created. (1980 Code
§ 2-185; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-9: FISCAL OFFICER:
The city manager shall be the chief fiscal officer of the E.W. Marland estate.
He may designate the city treasurer as chief budget officer. The chief fiscal
officer shall receive budget recommendations from the commission and in
consideration thereof shall cause all budgets of the E.W. Marland estate to be
submitted annually to the board of commissioners for approval and adoption at
the time other budgets of the various city departments are submitted. (1980
Code § 2-186)
3-4-10: DERIVATION, USE OF INCOME:
All income derived from the operation of the E.W. Marland estate shall be
retained for the operation, maintenance and development of the estate. (1980
Code § 2-187; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-11: STATUS OF PERSONNEL:
All persons employed at the E.W. Marland estate shall be under the supervision
of the director of the E.W. Marland estate, who shall be under the direct
supervision of the city manager. All employees shall be subject to the policy
guide or general policy guide of the city as amended. It is the express intent
of the board of commissioners to create an additional department to the city.
(1980 Code § 2-188)
CHAPTER 5
CULTURAL AFFAIRS COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-5-1: Commission Established; Composition
3-5-2: Appointment And Tenure
3-5-3: Compensation
3-5-4: Duties
3-5-5: Organization And Officials
3-5-6: Removal Of Members
3-5-7: Vacancies
3-5-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a Cultural Affairs Commission consisting of five (5)
persons to be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Commissioners as provided for in section 62 of the City Charter. (Ord. 6104, 8-
24-2009)
3-5-2: APPOINTMENT AND TENURE:
Members of the Cultural Affairs Commission shall be appointed for terms of
three (3) years, as their terms expire. (1980 Code § 2-205)
3-5-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Cultural Affairs Commission shall serve without compensation but
shall be reimbursed for any expenses approved by the Board of Commissioners and
incurred in the performance of their assigned duties. (1980 Code § 2-206)
3-5-4: DUTIES:
The Cultural Affairs Commission shall:
   A.   Advise the Board of Commissioners and the City Manager on matters
concerning operation of Marland's Grand Home and on all matters relating to the
cultural affairs of the City.
   B.   Establish rules and regulations for the operation of Marland's Grand
Home.
   C.   Promote the use of Marland's Grand Home and cultural affairs in the
City.
   D.   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners and the City Manager such
measures as it deems necessary and proper for the improvement of the facilities
under its jurisdiction and for the improvement of the state of cultural affairs
within the City.
   E.   Perform such other related duties as may be assigned to the commission
by the Board of Commissioners of the City. (Ord. 6245, 8-14-2017)
3-5-5: ORGANIZATION AND OFFICIALS:
Immediately after their appointment and at the first meeting of each year
thereafter, the Cultural Affairs Commission shall meet and organize by electing
from their number a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, a Secretary and such other
officers as they may deem necessary. The commission shall conduct its meetings
according to "Robert's Rules of Order", being particularly the newly revised
edition. Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. (1980
Code § 2-208; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6104, 8-24-2009)
3-5-6: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Members of the Cultural Affairs Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Commissioners, and any member may be removed at any time from
membership on the commission for cause by a majority vote of the Board of
Commissioners. (1980 Code § 2-209)
3-5-7: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments are
made. (1980 Code § 2-210)
CHAPTER 6
PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
3-6-1: Board Created; Appointment
3-6-2: Terms
3-6-3: Removals; Vacancies
3-6-4: Compensation
3-6-5: Officers
3-6-6: Meetings
3-6-7: Duties
3-6-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created in and for the city a park and
recreation advisory board. (1980 Code § 23-33)
   B.   Composition: The park and recreation advisory board shall consist of
the park and recreation director and two (2) students of the Ponca City Senior
High School, all of whom shall be nonvoting ex officio members, and nine (9)
other voting members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the voting
members. (Ord. 6065, 8-13-2007)
   C.   Appointment: The members of the park and recreation advisory board
shall be appointed as provided in section 62 of the city charter. (1980 Code §
23-35)
3-6-2: TERMS:
   A.   The park and recreation director shall serve on the park and recreation
advisory board for a term concurrent with his term as such officer.
   B.   The two (2) high school students shall be appointed on the second
Monday of September of each year for a term of one year. (1980 Code § 23-36)
   C.   The other nine (9) members shall be appointed on the second Monday of
May of each year; three (3) to be designated by the mayor to serve until May
13, 1994; three (3) to be designated to serve until May 12, 1995; and three (3)
to be designated to serve until May 10, 1996. Thereafter, such members shall
serve terms of three (3) years or until their successors are appointed and
qualified. No member shall serve more than two (2) full successive terms. (1980
Code § 23-36; amd. 2003 Code)
3-6-3: REMOVALS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Removal: The board of commissioners may remove a member of the park and
recreation advisory board for the good of the board by majority vote. (1980
Code § 23-37)
   B.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies occurring in the membership of the park
and recreation board shall be filled pursuant to section 62 of the city charter
for the balance of the unexpired term. (1980 Code § 23-38)
3-6-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the park and recreation advisory board shall serve as such without
compensation, provided that expenses incurred by members in attending meetings
other than regular board meetings may be reimbursed. (1980 Code § 23-39)
3-6-5: OFFICERS:
The members of the park and recreation advisory board shall, in May of each
year, elect the following officers from their membership: chairperson and vice
chairperson. The officers shall be elected for a one year term. Further
excepting, that no officer shall serve more than two (2) successive terms in
the same office. (1980 Code § 23-40)
3-6-6: MEETINGS:
The park and recreation advisory board shall meet at least once monthly, the
time and place of the meeting to be determined by the board. (1980 Code § 23-
41)
3-6-7: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the park and recreation advisory board to:
   A.   Set policy for the operation of the park and recreation program.
   B.   Review and approve individual programs within the overall park and
recreation program.
   C.   Review the annual park and recreation capital improvement projects
budget with the advice and guidance of the park and recreation director and
staff for submission to the city commissioners for their approval.
   D.   Review the annual capital improvement projects budget periodically with
the park and recreation director to ascertain that the park and recreation
capital improvement projects accounts are operating within the budget. (1980
Code § 23-42)
CHAPTER 7
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
3-7-1: Composition; Appointment
3-7-2: Terms
3-7-3: Removals; Vacancies
3-7-4: Compensation
3-7-5: Selection Of Officers
3-7-6: Meetings
3-7-7: Duties
3-7-8: Reports
3-7-1: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Composition: The library board shall be composed of seven (7) members.
(1980 Code § 19-29)
   B.   Appointment:
      1.   Generally: The members of the library board shall be appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by the board of commissioners as provided by section 62
of the city charter. (1980 Code § 19-30)
      2.   New Members: Members to be appointed to replace members of the
library board whose terms have expired shall be appointed on the second Monday
of May each year in the manner provided for appointments in section 62 of the
city charter, and each individual so appointed shall commence his term
immediately upon his appointment, and the term of office of the member whose
position he takes shall terminate upon the appointment of his replacement. No
member, except those representing governmental agencies or subdivisions
thereof, shall succeed himself except for one additional term. (1980 Code § 19-
34)
3-7-2: TERMS:
The terms of the members of the library board shall run for three (3) years
ending on the third Tuesday of May of each year and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. (1980 Code § 19-31; amd. 2003 Code)
3-7-3: REMOVALS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Removal: The board of commissioners may remove a member of the library
board for the good of the service. (1980 Code § 19-32)
   B.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring in the membership of the library board
shall be filled for the unexpired term only. (1980 Code § 19-33)
3-7-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the library board shall serve as such without compensation. (1980
Code § 19-35)
3-7-5: SELECTION OF OFFICERS:
At the first regular meeting in June, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the
library board shall meet and elect a chairman, vice chairman, and a secretary.
(1980 Code § 19-37)
3-7-6: MEETINGS:
The library board shall determine the time and place of its regular meetings.
The city manager, the chairman of the library board or three (3) members
thereof may call special meetings of the board. (1980 Code § 19-38)
3-7-7: DUTIES:
The library board shall consider all phases of the library operation and make
recommendations to the board of commissioners of the city for improvements in
any area of library operations. (1980 Code § 19-39)
3-7-8: REPORTS:
The library director shall make a written report at the end of each calendar
month to the board of commissioners and to the library board. (1980 Code § 19-
42; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-8-1: Commission Created; Appointment
3-8-2: Terms
3-8-3: Removal
3-8-4: Compensation
3-8-5: Organization
3-8-6: Special Meetings
3-8-7: Duties Generally
3-8-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created in and for the city an animal control
commission.
   B.   Composition: The animal control commission shall consist of five (5)
members, one of whom shall be a veterinarian.
   C.   Appointment: The members of the animal control commission shall be
nominated by the mayor and confirmed by the board of commissioners as provided
by section 62 of the city charter. (Ord. 6218, 3-14-2016)
3-8-2: TERMS:
The members of the animal control commission shall serve terms of three (3)
years. The members of the animal control commission presently in office and who
were nominated and confirmed under the prior version of section
3-8-1 of this chapter and this section shall continue in office until their
terms expire or they resign, whichever first occurs. No member of the animal
control commission shall consecutively serve more than two (2) full terms.
(Ord. 6218, 3-14-2016)
3-8-3: REMOVAL:
The board of commissioners may remove a member of the animal control commission
for the good of said commission by majority vote and may fill the vacancy for
the unexpired term. (1980 Code § 7-30)
3-8-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the animal control commission shall serve as such without
compensation. (1980 Code § 7-31)
3-8-5: ORGANIZATION:
At the first meeting following the May appointments, the animal control
commission shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary. (1980 Code
§ 7-32; amd. 2003 Code)
3-8-6: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings of the animal control commission may be called by the chairman
upon forty eight (48) hours' notice to the other members of the commission.
(1980 Code § 7-33; amd. 2003 code)
3-8-7: DUTIES GENERALLY:
It shall be the duty of the animal control commission to advise and recommend
to the board of commissioners on the maintenance, improvements, operating and
equipping of the animal control center and all ordinances for the control,
regulating and licensing of animals in the city and any and all legislation
concerning animals kept within the limits of the city. (1980 Code § 7-34)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTRUCTION APPEALS BOARD
SECTION:
3-9-1: Appointment; Membership; Terms
3-9-2: Qualifications
3-9-3: Officers; Procedure
3-9-4: Disqualification Of Member
3-9-5: Notice Of Meeting
3-9-6: Application For Appeal
3-9-7: Hearing Procedures; Decisions
3-9-8: Court Review
3-9-9: Modification Of Any Code
3-9-1: APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
The construction appeals board shall consist of five (5) members, each of whom
shall serve for five (5) years, and shall be appointed pursuant to section 62
of the city charter. (1980 Code § 10.5-2; amd. 2003 Code)
3-9-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Regular Members: The construction appeals board shall consist of five
(5) individuals, one from each of the following professions or disciplines:
      1.   Registered design professional that is a registered architect; or a
builder or superintendent of building construction with at least ten (10)
years' experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
      2.   Registered design professional with structural engineering or
architectural experience.
      3.   Registered design professional with mechanical or plumbing
engineering experience; or mechanical or plumbing contractor with at least ten
(10) years' experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge
of work.
      4.   Registered design professional with electrical engineering
experience; or an electrical contractor with at least ten (10) years'
experience, five (5) years of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
      5.   Registered design professional with fire protection engineering
experience, or a fire protection contractor with at least ten (10) years'
experience, five (5) years of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work.
   B.   Alternate Members: The chief appointing authority shall appoint two (2)
alternate members who shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals
during the absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall
posses the qualifications required for board membership, and shall be appointed
for five (5) years or until a successor has been appointed. (1980 Code § 10.5-
3)
3-9-3: OFFICERS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Chairman: The board shall annually select one of its members to serve
as chairman. (1980 Code § 10.5-4)
   B.   Secretary: The board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the secretary, procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence but shall
mandate that only relevant information be received. (1980 Code § 10.5-6)
3-9-4: DISQUALIFICATION OF MEMBER:
A member shall not hear an appeal in which that member has any personal,
professional or financial interest. (1980 Code § 10.5-5)
3-9-5: NOTICE OF MEETING:
The board shall meet upon notice from the chairman, within ten (10) days of the
filing of an appeal or at stated periodic meetings. (1980 Code § 10.5-7)
3-9-6: APPLICATION FOR APPEAL:
Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code official
charged with enforcing any city electrical, mechanical, plumbing, building or
fire codes to the construction appeals board. An application for appeal shall
be based on a claim that: a) the true intent of any of the above referenced
codes or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly
interpreted; b) the provisions of the codes do not fully apply; or, c) an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. Said application for
appeal shall be filed on a form obtained from the code official within twenty
(20) days after the aggrieved party receives written notice from the code
enforcement officer of the item in which they are wishing to appeal. (1980 Code
§ 10.5-1)
3-9-7: HEARING PROCEDURES; DECISIONS:
   A.   Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and
any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard. (1980 Code § 10.5-8)
   B.   Adopt Procedures: The board shall adopt and make available to the
public through the secretary, procedures under which a hearing will be
conducted. The procedure shall not require compliance with strict rules of
evidence but shall mandate that only relevant information be received. (1980
Code § 10.5-9)
   C.   Postponed Hearing: When five (5) members are not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request and receive a postponement of the hearing. (1980 Code § 10.5-
10)
   D.   Board Decision: The board may modify or reverse the decision of the
code official by a concurring vote of three (3) members. (1980 Code § 10.5-11)
   E.   Resolution: The decision of the board shall be by resolution. Certified
copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the code official. (1980 Code
§ 10.5-12)
   F.   Administration: The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the board. (1980 Code § 10.5-13)
3-9-8: COURT REVIEW:
Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall have the right
to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct errors of
law. Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by
law following the filing of the decision in the office of the municipal clerk.
(1980 Code § 10.5-14)
3-9-9: MODIFICATION OF ANY CODE:
The building official shall have the power to modify any order he has entered
relating to the electrical, mechanical, plumbing, fire and building codes upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the manner of carrying out the strict
letter of the code, provided that the spirit and intent of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modification when granted are allowed and the decision of the building
official thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant. (1980 Code § 10.5-15; amd.
2003 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ENERGY ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
3-10-1: Board Suspended
3-10-1: BOARD SUSPENDED:
Since the city has been able to establish a database of its line, poles,
transformers, and switches from which it has established an equipment
replacement/upgrade regime based on the age/condition of the assets; and since
the energy department has established an SCADA system which reveals where and
when additional capacity or redundancies of equipment would be beneficial on
the basis of quantifiable criteria; and since the energy department has become
better staffed with personnel whose primary duties are those previously
assigned to the energy advisory board; the energy advisory board has become of
less benefit in planning the needs of the department.
Therefore, the "energy advisory board" is hereby suspended indefinitely. Until
reactivated, existing appointments to the board will lapse as the appointment
expires and new appointments will not be made. (Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 11
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 6250, 1-22-2018)
TITLE 4
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Improvements And Other Purchases
4-1-2: City Depositories
4-1-3: City Officers And Employees; Business Transactions
4-1-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND OTHER PURCHASES:
   A.   Public Construction For City: All public construction contracts for the
city shall be let and awarded according to the public competitive bidding act
of 1974 and any amendments thereto as codified in 61 Oklahoma Statutes section
101 et seq.
   B.   Public Trust Contracts: All contracts for construction, labor,
equipment, materials or repairs for any public trust of the city shall be let
and awarded according to the procedure codified in 60 Oklahoma Statutes section
176 and any amendments thereto.
   C.   Other Contracts Or Purchases: All contracts or purchases not otherwise
applicable to subsection A or B of this section shall be instituted according
to other applicable state law or standard operating procedure (SOP) as
established by the city manager. (Ord. 5975, 6-14-2002)
4-1-2: CITY DEPOSITORIES:
All banks within the city which are incorporated under federal or state law are
hereby designated as depositories for the funds of the city. The city treasurer
shall deposit daily all public funds received by him in these banks. Funds may
be transferred from one depository to the other as the commission may direct by
motion or resolution. (1980 Code § 32-1)
4-1-3: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed by a municipality more than ten (10)
hours in a week for more than thirteen (13) consecutive weeks and who enters
into, recommends or participates in the decision to enter into any transaction
described in subsection B of this section. Any person who receives wages,
reimbursement for expenses, or emoluments of any kind from a municipality, any
spouse of the person, or any business in which the person or spouse has a
proprietary interest shall not buy or otherwise become interested in the
transfer of any surplus property of a municipality or a public trust of which
the municipality is beneficiary unless the surplus property is offered for sale
to the public after notice of the sale is published.
   PROPRIETARY INTEREST: Ownership of more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the business or of the stock therein or any percentage which constitutes a
controlling interest but shall not include any interest held by a blind trust.
   B.   Involvement In Financial Transactions Restricted: Except as otherwise
provided by this section, no city officer or employee, or any business in which
the officer, employee, or spouse of the officer or employee has a proprietary
interest, shall engage in:
      1.   Selling, buying, or leasing property, real or personal, to or from
the city;
      2.   Contracting with the city; or
      3.   Buying or bartering for or otherwise engaging in any manner in the
acquisition of any bonds, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness of the
city.
   C.   Employees Of Financial Institutions Serving On Board Of Public Body:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any officer, director or
employee of a financial institution may serve on a board of a public body;
provided, the member shall abstain from voting on any matter relating to a
transaction between or involving the financial institution in which they are
associated and the public body in which they serve.
   D.   Violation; Consequences: Any person convicted of violating the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense. Any transaction
entered into in violation of the provisions of this section is void. Any member
of a governing body who approves any transaction in violation of the provisions
of this section shall be held personally liable for the amount of the
transaction. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
4-2-1: Citation
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Taxes Imposed; Rates; Effective Dates
4-2-4: State Permit In Lieu Of City Permit
4-2-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
4-2-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
4-2-7: Tax Due Date
4-2-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
4-2-9: Collection By Vendors
4-2-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
4-2-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
4-2-12: Fraudulent Returns
4-2-13: Enforcement Of Payment
4-2-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
4-2-15: Records Confidential
4-2-16: Amendments
4-2-17: Provisions Cumulative
4-2-1: CITATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as PONCA CITY SALES TAX ORDINANCE.
(1980 Code § 32-16)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State Sales Tax
Code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
STATE SALES TAX CODE: Such Code as set out in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350
et seq., as amended.
TAX COLLECTOR: The Oklahoma Tax Commission authorized by law or contract to
administer the collection of the tax levied by this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-
19; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-3: TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES:
The following City sales taxes shall be imposed and effective as indicated,
unless otherwise extended by a vote of the people. Said taxes have been
approved by a majority of the registered voters of the City voting on same in
elections conducted in the manner prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes:
 
Purpose Of Revenue            Rate        Effective Date
General Fund                  2 percent   10-1-1979
Economic development          0.5 percent 1-1-2014 to 12-31-2023
Street improvement and repair 0.5 percent 10-1-2012
Recreation center             0.5 percent 1-1-2009 to 9-30-2020
 
(1980 Code § 32-17; amd. Ord. 5917, 8-9-1999; 2003 Code; Ord. 5987, 8-11-2003;
Ord. 6012, 10-11-2004; Ord. 6049, 2-26-2007; Ord. 6054, 5-9-2007; Ord. 6079, 4-
28-2008; Ord. 6089, 10-6-2008; Ord. 6149, 1-23-2012; Ord. 6162, 10-8-2012; Ord.
6216, 11-9-2015; Ord. 6241, 7-24-2017; Ord. 6311, 9-12-2022)
4-2-4: STATE PERMIT IN LIEU OF CITY PERMIT:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional City permit for the same purpose. (1980 Code § 32-19.1)
4-2-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the State Sales Tax Code.
(1980 Code § 32-20)
4-2-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2003 Code)
4-2-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under the provisions of this chapter shall be due and payable at
the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales
tax under the state sales tax law. (1980 Code § 32-26)
4-2-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the state tax commission at the
time and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under
the state sales tax law.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the
state tax commission shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the city and the state tax commission, in the collection of both the city
sales tax and the state sales tax. (1980 Code § 32-27; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied under the provision of this chapter shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every
vendor in the city to collect from the consumer or user the full amount of the
tax levied by this chapter, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed under this chapter, or the average
equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or remits or rebates
to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means,
all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising,
verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax,
or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a
price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 32-28)
4-2-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be made to the state tax commission at the time and in the
manner, form and amount as prescribed for returns and remittances required by
the state sales tax code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of
state sales taxes. (1980 Code § 32-29; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, and
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest or penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied under this chapter; provided, that the failure or refusal
of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
(1980 Code § 32-30; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax as levied under this chapter
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and amendments thereto; and to accomplish the
purposes of this section the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-
31; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-12: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties which may be imposed for the violation of
this chapter, the wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter, shall be an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to punishment as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 32-32)
4-2-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Taxes, penalty and interest due under the provision of this chapter shall at
all times constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the
claims of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(1980 Code § 32-33)
4-2-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax levied under the provisions
of this chapter may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in
the same manner and procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as
provided for administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 227, and amendments thereto, and to accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-34; amd. 2003
Code)
4-2-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and
amendments thereto, of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof,
is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (1980 Code
§ 32-35; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the ordinance from which this
chapter was derived at the election provided for in section
4-2-3 of this chapter, hereby authorize the board of commissioners, by
ordinances duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical changes or
additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing this chapter
as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate
of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law. (1980 Code § 32-36)
4-2-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (1980 Code § 32-37)
CHAPTER 3
HOTEL EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Tax Rate
4-3-3: Exemptions; Acknowledgment Required; Records Required
4-3-4: Operator Responsibilities
4-3-5: Bond Required
4-3-6: Failure To File; Incorrect Tax
4-3-7: Refunds
4-3-8: Issuance Of Notices
4-3-9: Remedies Exclusive
4-3-10: General Powers Of City Manager
4-3-11: Administration Of Oaths And Compelling Testimony
4-3-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
4-3-13: Filing Return; Payment Of Tax
4-3-14: Use Of Funds
4-3-15: Records Confidential
4-3-16: Fraudulent Returns
4-3-17: Effective Date
4-3-18: Amendments
4-3-19: Provisions Cumulative
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Ponca City, Oklahoma.
COMMISSION: The Ponca City board of commissioners.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailers, or other facilities in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which one or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests, whether
such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels,
apartmental hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging houses,
inns, bed and breakfast inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels,
dormitory space where bed space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments
not occupied by "permanent residents", and all other facilities where rooms or
sleeping facilities or space is furnished for a consideration to the public at
large. The term "facilities" shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums or
nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
OCCUPANT: A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right
to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited
to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including any charges for double occupancy or
extra people in the same room, and also any amount for which credit is allowed
by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever;
rent shall not include charges for telephone, food charges, room service and
other matters not attributable to occupancy, nor shall it include consideration
received for occupancy by any permanent resident.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is capable of being occupied by seventy five (75) or more persons and
which is used for educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall
include: nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or private
banquets, feasts, socials, card parties or weddings; lodge and meeting halls or
rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiard, bowling and table
tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering purposes;
funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls; broadcasting
studios; and all other places of similar type occupancy.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-41; amd. Ord.
6161, 8-27-2012, eff. 10-1-2012)
4-3-2: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of eight percent (8%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room
in a hotel in the city, except that the tax shall not be imposed where the rent
is less than at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day. (Ord. 6002, 5-24-
2004)
4-3-3: EXEMPTIONS; ACKNOWLEDGMENT REQUIRED; RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the tax levied in this
chapter:
      1.   The United States government or any agency or division thereof.
      2.   The state of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof.
      3.   Any public school or state accredited private school, provided that
its primary purpose is not carrying on a business for profit.
      4.   Any church, provided that its primary purpose is not carrying on a
business for profit. (Ord. 6002, 5-24-2004; amd. Ord. 6161, 8-27-2012, eff. 10-
1-2012)
   B.   Acknowledgment Required: Every hotel/motel shall submit a monthly
exemption form, as provided by the city clerk, with each monthly room tax
report. This exemption form will indicate the name of the person seeking
exemption, the exempt organization with which they are affiliated, the period
of occupancy, number of rooms occupied and any other information required by
the city clerk. Every exemption form shall be signed by the hotel/motel manager
or authorized agent, so that the signature shall serve as an acknowledgment
that all information contained in the exemption form is true and correct. Upon
submission of these forms to the city, the city clerk shall make a final
determination as to the validity of all claimed exemptions. Should the city
clerk determine that a claimed exemption is not valid, the hotel/motel shall be
assessed the prevailing hotel/motel tax within three (3) months of the date
that the exemption claim form is filed. The hotel/motel claiming such exemption
shall become liable for payment of the tax and shall submit the same with their
next monthly tax remittance.
For purposes of this section, an exemption will not be validated by the city
clerk unless the exemption is claimed for the month in which it accrues. For
good cause shown, the city clerk may grant an extension for claiming an
exemption. (Ord. 6161, 8-27-2012, eff. 10-1-2012)
   C.   Records Required: Every operator shall be required to maintain copies
of monthly room reports, monthly exemption forms and individual exemption forms
upon the business premises of the hotel/motel for a period of three (3) years.
Such records shall be available for inspection and examination at any time upon
demand by the city clerk, or a duly authorized agent or employee of the city.
For purposes of this section individual exemption forms shall be available from
the city clerk and shall include the following:
      1.   A statement declaring the reason for exemptions;
      2.   The name, signature, address, home phone and work phone of the
person claiming the exemption;
      3.   The date on which the exemption form is completed; and
      4.   An acknowledgment, by signature, of the exemption by an employee or
agent of the hotel/motel. (Ord. 6002, 5-24-2004)
4-3-4: OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Prior to commencement of business or opening, every hotel operator
shall file with the city clerk:
      1.   A certificate of registration;
      2.   An affidavit designating the operator.
The required filings shall be made on forms prescribed by the city clerk.
   B.   The city clerk shall, within five (5) days after receipt of the
required registration and affidavit, issue, without charge, to each operator a
certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the
occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or
duplicate shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of
authority shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it
may be seen and come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and
shall be surrendered immediately to the city clerk upon the cessation of
business at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer, or upon the change
of designated operator. (Ord. 6002, 5-24-2004)
4-3-5: BOND REQUIRED:
Where the city manager believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he deems it necessary in order to protect the revenues under this chapter, he
may require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a surety
company authorized to transact business in this state in such amount as the
city manager may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest
due, or which may become due from such operator. In the event that the city
manager determines that an operator is to file such bond, he shall give notice
to such operator specifying the amount of bond required. The operator shall
file such bond within five (5) days after filing of such notice, unless within
such five (5) days the operator shall request in writing a hearing before the
city commission, at which time the necessary propriety and amount of the bond
shall be determined by the city commission. Such determination shall be final
and shall be complied with within fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such
bond, securities approved by the city manager, or cash in such amount as he may
prescribe, may be deposited with the city manager, who may at any time after
five (5) days' notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax and/or any
penalties due and, for that purpose, the securities may be sold at private or
public sale. (1980 Code § 32-50)
4-3-6: FAILURE TO FILE; INCORRECT TAX:
It shall be unlawful for any hotel or motel owner or operator to fail to file a
return required by this chapter or to file a return which is incorrect or
insufficient, and each day from and after the date for filing such return, or
failure to do so, shall constitute a separate offense and each day following
the filing of an incorrect or insufficient return shall constitute a separate
offense. Each offense shall be punishable by a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00), and cost. (1980 Code § 32-51)
4-3-7: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The city manager shall refund or credit any tax erroneously,
illegally or unconstitutionally collected if written application to the city
manager for such refund shall be made within two (2) years from the date of
payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so
made upon the initiative and the order of the city manager. The city manager,
in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit therefor on
payments due from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons
therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may be made by the person
upon whom such tax was imposed and who has actually paid the tax. Such
application may also be made by the person who has collected and paid such tax
to the city treasurer; provided, that the application is made within two (2)
years of the payment by the occupant to the operator, but no refund of money
shall be made to the operator until he has repaid to the occupant the amount
for which the application for refund is made.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the city
manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation
as he deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the city
manager shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be
final unless the applicant, within ninety (90) days after such notice, shall
apply in writing to the commission for a hearing. After such hearing, the
commission shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant. (1980
Code § 32-52)
4-3-8: ISSUANCE OF NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail to the last known address of the operator. (1980 Code § 32-
53)
4-3-9: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (1980 Code
§ 32-54)
4-3-10: GENERAL POWERS OF CITY MANAGER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city manager, he is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this chapter and for the purposes hereof upon approval of the
board of commissioners.
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest.
   C.   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee
or employees of the city.
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes (but not
the tax rate) imposed by this chapter.
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(1980 Code § 32-55)
4-3-11: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND COMPELLING TESTIMONY:
The city manager, or his designated representative, shall have the power to
administer oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceedings
in the exercise of their powers and duties under this chapter. The city manager
shall have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and
the production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent
to the performance of his duties hereunder and of the enforcement of this
chapter and to examine them in relation thereto. (1980 Code § 32-56)
4-3-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, and amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter, and interest and penalties at the
rates and in amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be
applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by
this chapter. Provided that, the failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and
transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by
this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. (1980 Code § 32-57; amd.
2003 Code)
4-3-13: FILING RETURN; PAYMENT OF TAX:
The tax levied by this chapter shall be due and payable at the time filing of
the returns provided for in this chapter is required. All taxes not paid when
required shall be delinquent. (1980 Code § 32-58)
4-3-14: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Of the taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
five-eighths (5/8) shall be set aside and used exclusively for encouraging,
fostering and promoting conventions and visitors development and economic
development associated with the travel and tourism industry. Three-eighths (3/
8) shall be set aside and used exclusively for capital improvements to
recreation facilities on public property for the public at large within Ponca
City and its environs.
   B.   The city is authorized by this section to deduct a sum of three percent
(3%) of all revenues produced from this tax to offset the cost of collection
and disbursement. The minimum amount of this fee shall not be less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per month. (Ord. 6002, 5-24-2004)
4-3-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
205 of the state sales tax code, and amendments thereto, and each subsection
thereof is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable
to administration of the Ponca City hotel tax as if herein set forth. (1980
Code § 32-61; amd. 2003 Code)
4-3-16: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than the
maximum authorized by law. (1980 Code § 32-62)
4-3-17: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this chapter is the first day of the calendar month
subsequent to the approval of this chapter by the voters of the city 1 . This
effective date does not necessarily apply to the rate established in section
4-3-2 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-63; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Ord. 5436, adopted July 7, 1986, was approved at a special election held
  on July 29, 1986.
4-3-18: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Ponca City, by their approval of this chapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the city commission by ordinances duly
enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administration and enforcing this chapter as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness, including the right to
terminate such tax, except that the rate of the tax and purpose herein provided
shall not be changed without the approval of the qualified electors of the city
as provided by law. (1980 Code § 32-64)
4-3-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (1980 Code § 32-
65)
0CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE SERVICES
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE TAX
SECTION:
4-4A-1: Tax Imposed; Effective Date
4-4A-2: Limitation On Imposition
4-4A-3: Collection
4-4A-4: Disposition Of Funds
4-4A-5: Administration Of Service
4-4A-6: Cooperation With Other Governing Bodies
4-4A-7: Administrative Fee
4-4A-1: TAX IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATE:
There is hereby imposed, effective immediately, a monthly E911 fee, for the
respective types of telephones located within the Ponca City PSAP service area,
in the amount of:
   A.   Ten percent (10%) per line on the tariff charges for exchange telephone
service or its equivalent on wired service provided by the local exchange
telephone companies; and
   B.   A fee of fifty cents ($0.50) for each cell telephone; and
   C.   A fee of fifty cents ($0.50) for each VoIP telephone;
   D.   No phone shall be assessed more than one fee per month. (Ord. 6164, 2-
11-2013, eff. 5-1-2013)
4-4A-2: LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION:
No such fee shall be imposed upon more than one hundred (100) exchange access
lines or VoIP phones at one location per service user. (Ord. 6164, 2-11-2013,
eff. 5-1-2013)
4-4A-3: COLLECTION:
The fee shall be collected monthly by the local exchange telephone company,
cellphone service provider or VoIP service provider and forwarded to the city
clerk within thirty (30) days of the close of the month in which such fees were
collected. (Ord. 6164, 2-11-2013, eff. 5-1-2013)
4-4A-4: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The funds collected from this fee shall be spent for associated expenses of
administration, operation and maintenance of emergency 911 telephone service in
the city. (1980 Code § 32-74)
4-4A-5: ADMINISTRATION OF SERVICE:
The police chief is hereby authorized to administer the emergency 911 telephone
service in the city. (1980 Code § 32-75; amd. 2003 Code)
4-4A-6: COOPERATION WITH OTHER GOVERNING BODIES:
The police chief is hereby authorized to cooperate, from time to time, with
other governing bodies who may impose a similar fee and who wish to participate
in the city's emergency 911 telephone service. (1980 Code § 32-76; amd. 2003
Code)
4-4A-7: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
The local exchange company providing exchange telephone service within the city
shall be entitled to retain as an administrative fee, three percent (3%) of the
fee imposed and collected pursuant to section
4-4A-1 of this article. (1980 Code § 32-77)
CHAPTER 4
TELEPHONE SERVICES
ARTICLE B. TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
4-4B-1: Fee Levied
4-4B-2: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees, Taxes
4-4B-1: FEE LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the city. The inspection fee and charge
shall be due and payable to the city on or before May 1 of each year, for the
calendar year ending December 31 preceding, and shall be paid into and
appropriated and expended from the general revenue fund of the city. (Ord.
1382, 8-5-1935)
4-4B-2: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the city. (Ord. 1382, 8-5-1935)
CHAPTER 5
PROPERTY EXCISE (USE) TAX
SECTION:
4-5-1: Citation
4-5-2: Purposes Of Revenues
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Classification Of Taxpayers
4-5-5: Excise Tax Levied; Tangible Personal Property
4-5-6: Exemptions
4-5-7: Filing Tax Return; Payment
4-5-8: Tax Constitutes Debt
4-5-9: Collection Of Tax
4-5-10: Revoking Permits
4-5-11: Remunerative Deductions Allowed
4-5-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
4-5-13: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
4-5-14: Fraudulent Returns
4-5-15: Records Confidential
4-5-16: Subsisting State Permits
4-5-17: Provisions Cumulative
4-5-1: CITATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF PONCA CITY, OKLAHOMA,
USE TAX ORDINANCE. (1980 Code § 32-91)
4-5-2: PURPOSES OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the
city for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(1980 Code § 32-92)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases as defined in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, and amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the
following words and terms shall be defined as follows:
CITY OR TOWN: The city of Ponca City, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The Oklahoma tax commission authorized by law or contract to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (1980 Code § 32-93; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-4: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(1980 Code § 32-94)
4-5-5: EXCISE TAX LEVIED; TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other consumption
within the city of such property at the same total percentage rate, at all
times, as provided by section
4-2-3 of this title, of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be
paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city,
tangible personal property purchased or brought into the city. The additional
tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the
property within the city and shall be assessed to only property purchased
outside the state; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied
against tangible personal property intended solely for use outside the city,
but which is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city, or which is
temporarily retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair,
testing, alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for
payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or
municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that
the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the
taxes imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or
services. (1980 Code § 32-95; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply with respect to the following:
   A.   The use of an article of tangible personal property brought into the
city by a nonresident individual visiting in the city for his or her personal
use or enjoyment while within the city.
   B.   The use of tangible personal property purchased for resale before being
used.
   C.   The use of any article of tangible personal property on which a tax,
equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax code and this
chapter, has been paid by the person using such tangible personal property in
the city, whether such tax was levied under the laws of Oklahoma or some other
state or municipality of the United States. If any article of tangible personal
property has already been subjected to a tax of Oklahoma or any other state or
municipality in respect to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax
imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and this chapter, the provisions of
this chapter shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only
between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma use tax code and this chapter,
and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed,
provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or
municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for
taxes paid in Oklahoma and the city.
   D.   The use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the city, and machinery
and equipment purchased and used by persons for the operation of manufacturing
plants already established in the city, provided, this exemption shall not
apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly
used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation under the
sales tax code of the state. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such.
   E.   The use of tangible personal property now specifically exempted from
taxation under the sales tax code of the state, and amendments thereto.
   F.   The use of any article of tangible personal property brought into the
city by an individual with intent to become a resident of the city where such
personal property is for such individual's personal use or enjoyment.
   G.   The use of any article of tangible personal property used or to be used
by commercial airlines or railroads.
   H.   Livestock purchased outside the state and brought into the city for
feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
   I.   Any exemption established by 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1404 or any
amendments thereto. (1980 Code § 32-96)
4-5-7: FILING TAX RETURN; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state. (1980 Code § 32-97)
4-5-8: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1980 Code § 32-98)
4-5-9: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Retailer Or Vendor: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state, and making sales of tangible
personal property from a place of business outside this state for use in the
city, shall, at the time of making such sales, collect the use tax levied by
this chapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in
the manner and form prescribed by the Oklahoma tax commission, if the Oklahoma
tax commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or
vendor shall list with the Oklahoma tax commission the name and address of all
his agents operating in the city and location of any and all distribution or
sales houses or offices or other places of business in the city. (1980 Code §
32-99)
   B.   Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of Business Within State Or
Both Within And Without State; Permits: The Oklahoma tax commission may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax herein levied
by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business within this
state, but who makes sales of tangible personal property for use in the city
and by the out-of-state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining
places of business both within and without the state, and making sales of
tangible personal property at such out-of- state place of business for use in
the city. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes by the Oklahoma tax commission, in such manner and subject
to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized,
it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all
tangible personal property sold to his knowledge for use within the city. Such
authority and permit may be canceled when at any time the Oklahoma tax
commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in the city; provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within the city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipal sales tax at
the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (1980 Code § 32-100)
4-5-10: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma
tax commission, the Oklahoma tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as
provided for in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax
permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor; and if any such retailer or
vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after
notice and hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license to do
business in this state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation
has complied with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax
code, or any orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma tax commission. (1980
Code § 32-101)
4-5-11: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Oklahoma tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(1980 Code § 32-102)
4-5-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes,
and amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this chapter; provided, that the failure or refusal of
any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax
in the time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed
under this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-103; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the municipal tax herein
levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver
or remittance as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and amendments thereto, and to accomplish the
purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-
104; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the municipal use tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and amendments
thereto, and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable
provisions of said section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter. (1980 Code § 32-105; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 32-106; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section
205, and amendments thereto, of the state use tax code, and each subsection
thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable
to administration of the municipal use tax as if herein set forth in full.
(1980 Code § 32-107; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-16: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional city permit for the same purpose. (1980 Code § 32-108)
4-5-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (1980 Code § 32-109)
TITLE 5
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
5-1-0: City Permits And Fees
5-1-1: State Statutes Adopted By Reference
5-1-2: Restrictions Concerning Minors
5-1-3: Public Intoxication
5-1-4: Public Consumption, Possession Of Open Containers
5-1-5: Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic
Beverages
5-1-0: CITY PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Intoxicating Beverages Permit:
      1.   Any person required to possess a State license/permit for sale or
distribution of beer, wine, mixed beverages, and any other classification of
alcohol containing beverages now in existence or which may be created by the
Legislature in the future, is required to have, possess and display, in the
same location as their State license/permit, a City Occupation Tax permit for
distribution or sale of the same product classification within Ponca City.
(Ord. 6259, 6-11-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
      2.   The City Clerk shall grant a City permit to an applicant upon:
         a.   The applicant's presentation of a valid State license for sale or
distribution of the same beverage classification for which the City permit is
requested; and
         b.   Payment of an annual Occupation Tax as established by the City
Commission in an amount not in excess of that permitted by State Statute,
including the State's reduced license fee for a mixed beverage or bottle club
license for those service organizations or fraternal beneficiary societies
which are exempt under section 501(c)(19), (8) or (10) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
         c.   The applicant shall otherwise be in compliance with State
Statutes regulating to the sale or distribution of the beverage classification
for which a City permit is being requested.
         d.   City Occupational Tax permits for the above classifications shall
be issued for a period of not to exceed one year and concurrent with the State
alcohol license. The City Clerk is authorized to prorate City permits as
necessary to establish this concurrent licensing scheme.
         e.   Refunds or rebates will not be provided for early surrender of a
permit 1 . (Ord. 6128, 8-23-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS 554.1.
5-1-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There are hereby adopted by reference, and made a part of this Code, the
Oklahoma State Statutes defining and regulating the sale and consumption of
alcohol as set out in title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Any violation thereof
which constitutes a misdemeanor thereunder shall be an offense punishable
within the jurisdictional limits of the Municipal Court. (Ord. 6128, 8-23-2010)
5-1-2: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING MINORS:
   A.   Possession By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor person to have
in his or her possession any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume in the City limits or upon any property
owned by the City. (1980 Code § 5-1)
   B.   Presence Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor to wander,
loiter or be present around a place of business, public or private, where beer
or liquor is consumed on the premises or sold as a principal item of that
business. (1980 Code § 5-2)
5-1-3: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk, or in a state of intoxication,
to appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or other public
place; or for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in
any street, alley, place of business or other public place, within the City.
(1980 Code § 5-4)
5-1-4: PUBLIC CONSUMPTION, POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the City limits, or upon lands
belonging to the City outside the City limits, to consume or to have in his or
her possession an open container of any alcoholic beverage upon the streets,
sidewalks, right-of-way of any street, or upon any roadway or parking area in a
park or public use area provided by the City, or upon private property
belonging to any person other than the individual possessing or consuming said
beverage, without said person first obtaining the permission of the owner of
said property. (Ord. 6259, 6-11-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
5-1-5: PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) or more of alcohol by volume and which is
fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with
other substances.
   CONTROL: Any form of dominion including ownership, tenancy or other
possessory right however temporary.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   RESIDENCE OR PREMISES: Any hotel or motel room, home, yard, apartment,
condominium, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park or public
place whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a
dwelling or for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without compensation. (Ord. 6259, 6-11-2018, eff. 10-1-
2018)
   B.   Consumption Of Alcohol By Minor In Public Place, Place Open To Public,
Or Place Not Open To Public: Except as permitted by State law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      1.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public
alcoholic beverage; or
      2.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage that minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Hosting, Permitting, Or Allowing A Party, Gathering, Or Event Where
Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited:
      1.   Prevention Of Minor's Consumption:
         a.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place or to continue at
said premises where any minor possesses or consumes an alcoholic beverage
available on the premises, whenever the person having control of the premises
either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic beverage or reasonably should
have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic beverage had the person taken all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of an alcoholic beverage by a
minor.
      2.   Adult Having Control Of Premises: Whenever an adult having control
of a residence or premises is present at the residence or premises at the time
that a person under the age of twenty one (21) years possesses or consumes any
alcoholic beverage thereon, it shall be prima facie evidence that such adult
had knowledge or should have had the knowledge specified in subsection C1a of
this section.
      3.   Parent Or Legal Guardian Involved: This section shall not apply to
conduct involving the use of alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively
between a minor and his or her parent or legal guardian.
      4.   Family Activity In Family Home: Nothing in this section should be
interpreted to prohibit any family activity held in the confines of the family
home from providing the use of alcohol to immediate family members within the
supervision of parents and guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family
gathering intoxicated and is found in public then said providers of alcohol
will be held responsible in the same manner as a nonfamily gathering.
      5.   Religious Practice: Nothing in this section should be interpreted to
prohibit any religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if
a minor leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in
public then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same
manner as a nonreligious gathering.
      6.   Applicability: This section shall not apply to any premises licensed
by the State of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
      7.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the City and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to punishment within the jurisdictional limit of the
Municipal Court.
      8.   Local Authority: This section shall not apply where prohibited or
preempted by State or Federal law. (Ord. 6064, 8-13-2007)
CHAPTER 2
SHOOTING RANGES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Shooting Ranges; Generally
5-2-2: Regulation Of Shooting Ranges
5-2-1: SHOOTING RANGES; GENERALLY:
   A.   Shooting Range Defined: The term "shooting range" as used in this
chapter shall mean and include any place specifically designed or subsequently
modified for providing a location for the discharge of firearms for purposes of
test firing firearms, teaching, practicing or competition in marksmanship.
"Shooting ranges" are also commonly known as "firing ranges" and "gun ranges".
   B.   Construction: Every shooting range constructed, established, set up, or
operated in the city shall be constructed, set up, and operated in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the international building code as it
has been adopted by the city.
   C.   Existing Police Ranges: While existing police ranges operated by the
city are not subject to this section, any indoor shooting range hereafter
constructed by the city shall be subject to this chapter.
   D.   Exception To Prohibition Against Discharging A Firearm: The proper
discharge of a weapon within such a shooting range which is constructed
pursuant to the construction codes then in effect and in conformity with
section
5-2-2 of this chapter and the rules/regulations a shooting range may establish
for patrons shall be an exception to the general prohibition against
discharging a firearm within the city. (Ord. 6171, 5-13-2013)
5-2-2: REGULATION OF SHOOTING RANGES:
   A.   Shooting ranges shall have walls, ceilings and floors that are
impenetrable to the bullets of the firearms being used within it, or have
internal baffling built so that the bullets cannot hit the walls or ceiling.
Doors and windows which are in front of the firing points must be bolted from
the inside and must comply with this subsection as a part of the building walls
at all times the facility is in use. Gas projectiles and incendiary devices
shall not be used in such facilities. Protective stalls shall be built between
each firing point used for the discharge of a firearm.
   B.   Shooting ranges shall be so constructed and insulated from noise that
the discharge of firearms within the facility shall not disturb the peace of
other persons. Hearing protectors which fully cover the shooter's ears shall be
provided by the shooting range and made available for all shooters or other
persons in the firing area. No gas or incendiary projectiles shall be allowed.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any shooting
range, its construction, remodeling or operation from any applicable city,
state, or federal law, rule or regulation.
   D.   All instructors at any shooting range shall be certified by the
National Rifle Association or by the state of Oklahoma.
   E.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner, manager, operator or
employee of a shooting range to permit any person or persons to bring any beer,
intoxicating liquor, intoxicating substance or intoxicating compound on the
premises of any shooting range; to permit the consumption of same on the
premises; or to permit them to be left at any place on the premises. It shall
be unlawful and an offense for any person operating a range to permit any
intoxicated person to be or remain on the premises.
   F.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to discharge any
firearm within a shooting range in a manner that violates any provision of this
chapter or so that the shot, projectile, bullet or fragments will avoid the
backstop and other safety precautions and escape the confines of any shooting
range, or cause bodily injury to a person on the premises. An owner, manager,
operator, employee or agent of a shooting range shall supervise the users of
the facility and shall remove and bar from the premises any person who refuses
to comply with generally accepted safety practices, with the provisions of this
chapter, or with the rules and regulations concerning safety imposed by the
operator.
   G.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to manage or operate
any shooting range in any manner which violates the requirements of this
section.
   H.   Every person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
an offense and is subject to fine and/or imprisonment within the jurisdictional
limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6171, 5-13-2013)
CHAPTER 3
SECONDHAND DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Records And Reports
5-3-3: Purchases From Minors
5-3-4: Identification Of Pledgors
5-3-5: Restrictions On Disposal Of Property
5-3-6: Exceptions
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
JUNK: Scrap iron, old iron, lead, brass, steel, copper, aluminum, or other
metals, rubber, leather, belting, furniture, utensils, glassware or crockery,
plumbing fixtures, electric fixtures, burlap bags or other materials, tools,
guns, knives, watches and clocks, rope or other cordage, rags, empty bottles,
machinery, supplies, equipment, automobiles, automobile parts, automobile
accessories, tires and other articles which have been discarded or are
otherwise of little or no value or use to the original owner thereof.
JUNK DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling or offering
for sale or trade, or otherwise dealing in, junk; provided, however, that any
merchant who receives or accepts used merchandise or vehicles as down or part
payment on merchandise or vehicles handled by such merchant shall not come
under this definition.
PAWNBROKER: Any person who lends money on the security or pledged goods or
purchases tangible personal property on condition that it may be redeemed or
repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time.
(1980 Code § 9-48)
5-3-2: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Records Required: Every junk dealer or pawnbroker engaged in business
within the city shall keep a register or book in which shall be entered a full
and complete description of every transaction entered into during his course of
business in sufficient detail to positively identify the item of property and
the seller, pledgor, buyer or other person involved in such transaction. Such
register or book shall be legibly written in the English language and shall be
at all times accessible and subject to inspection by the chief of police, city
attorney or other duly authorized officer of the city. (1980 Code § 9-49)
   B.   Reports: It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker or junk dealer to
deliver to the chief of police a true and correct copy of the records kept by
him as required by subsection A of this section each and every business day
before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. for the preceding business day. (1980 Code § 9-
50)
5-3-3: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer or secondhand dealer to purchase any
article whatsoever from any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years without
first having obtained in writing the consent of the parents or guardian of such
minor to make such purchase. Such written consent shall be dated the day the
purchase is made and shall be itemized so as to show each particular article or
thing purchased. (1980 Code § 9-51; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3-4: IDENTIFICATION OF PLEDGORS:
Every person who applies to any pawnbroker for a loan for the security of which
he offers personal property, or who offers to sell any personal property,
shall, before the property be received or taken or the loan or purchase made,
be identified by some responsible resident of the city, unless such person has
been personally known to the pawnbroker for a period of not less than six (6)
months then last past. (1980 Code § 9-52)
5-3-5: RESTRICTIONS ON DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY:
No pawnbroker shall sell or otherwise dispose of or permit to be taken from his
establishment any personal property of which a record is required to be kept
within forty eight (48) hours after the delivery of the copy of the record to
the chief of police. All such property shall be held separate and apart from
all other property for a period of twenty four (24) hours after such report and
copy has been delivered and received, and subject to inspection in a place
readily accessible by any officer of the city during such period. (1980 Code §
9-53)
5-3-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property purchased from
manufacturers, wholesale dealers or from any other person having an established
place of business, but such goods shall be accompanied by a bill of sale or
other evidence of legitimate purchase, which bill of sale or other evidence
must be kept on file at the place of business and must be shown to the city
attorney, chief of police or any police officer of the city on demand. (1980
Code § 9-54)
CHAPTER 4
BARTERERS, OUTDOOR SELLERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: License Required
5-4-3: License Application Procedure
5-4-4: Application And Investigation Fee
5-4-5: Review And Investigation; Issuance Or Denial
5-4-6: Appeal Of Denial Of License
5-4-7: Term Of License
5-4-8: Transfer Of License
5-4-9: Display Of License
5-4-10: Revocation Of License
5-4-11: Surrender Upon Expiration Or Revocation
5-4-12: Renewal Of License
5-4-13: Outdoor Sellers; Fixed Outdoor Location Of Business To Be Specified On
License
5-4-14: Outdoor Seller Compliance With Site Plan; Amendments
5-4-15: Exception
5-4-16: Hours Of Business
5-4-17: Use Of Public Right Of Way
5-4-18: Invitation Required To Enter Posted Premises
5-4-19: Use Of Public Markets For Vending Required
5-4-20: Pedestrians Stopping Vehicles In Streets Or Parks Prohibited
5-4-21: Crying Wares Prohibited
5-4-22: Display Of Used Motor Vehicles And Boats Prohibited On Certain Property
5-4-23: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BARTERER: Any person who exchanges goods or productive services for other goods
or productive services.
BARTERING: Exchanging goods or productive services for other goods or
productive services, including, but not limited to, physical labor.
FARMER'S MARKET: A market held at a place and time decreed by the chief of
police or the city manager where persons who have grown produce, grains,
vegetables, fruits or nuts, can sell their produce to the public without going
through a middle man.
OUTDOOR SELLER: Any person offering or exposing for retail sale, or making
retail sales of, any foodstuffs, beverages, goods, products, wares or
merchandise or other personal property of any type, at any fixed outdoor
business location; provided, however that this definition shall not include
merchants who ordinarily and regularly offer such items for retail sale within
permanent structures located on the same premises; and further excluding
persons selling produce, grains, vegetables, fruits or nuts of their own
production in a farmer's market.
PEDDLER: Any person who travels on foot or by any type of conveyance from place
to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting foodstuffs, beverages, goods, products, wares, merchandise or
other personal property of any type, and offering or exposing the same for
retail sale, or making retail sales of such articles to purchasers.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street or highway and property adjacent to streets and
highways which is dedicated to public use and over which the federal, state or
municipal government, or any agency, department or subdivision thereof,
exercises control and dominion; or any bridge, alley, sidewalk, canal, plaza,
pedestrian bridge, pedestrianway, stairs or elevator which is dedicated to
public use and over which the federal, state or municipal government, or any
agency, department or subdivision thereof, exercises control and dominion.
RETAIL SALE OR SALES: Any sale or sales transactions of foodstuffs, beverages,
goods, products, wares, merchandise or other personal property, except as made
by a person engaged in selling such personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property.
SOLICITOR: Any person who travels on foot or by any type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the retail sale of goods, products, wares,
merchandise or other personal property of any type, excluding foodstuffs, for
future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future.
(Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003; amd. Ord. 6003, 5-24-2004; Ord. 6004, 6-
14-2004)
5-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of barterer,
outdoor seller, peddler or solicitor within the corporate limits of the city
without first obtaining a license from the city clerk. Each such person
engaging in such an activity is required to be individually licensed. (Ord.
5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-3: LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applicants for a license under this chapter
shall file with the city clerk a verified application on a form to be furnished
by the city clerk, which shall contain the following information:
      1.   The full name, description, birth date, and social security number
of the applicant;
      2.   The applicant's address, both legal and local;
      3.   A brief description of the business to be conducted and the items
and/or services to be sold or bartered;
      4.   The time period for which the applicant desires to do business;
      5.   The tag number and description of any vehicle to be used (if
applicable);
      6.   Copy of sales tax permit issued by the state of Oklahoma to the
applicant or the applicant's employer or a sworn verification that the
applicant or the applicant's employer is a vendor registered with the Oklahoma
tax commission, or other proof that sales tax has been or is being paid on the
items sold or to be sold; or proof that the applicant or the applicant's
employer is exempt from the payment of sales tax;
      7.   Photographs and fingerprints of the applicant to be taken by the
police department of the city;
      8.   The content of any signs to be used;
      9.   Outdoor sellers shall provide a site plan depicting the fixed
outdoor location desired, if any, and the location of any structure, vehicle,
sign or display to be used while conducting the business at such fixed
location;
      10.   Outdoor sellers shall provide a written authorization executed by
the legal owner or manager of the land upon which any outdoor business location
shall be located authorizing the use of the land for the purposes desired by
the applicant; and
      11.   If employed by another, the name and address of the applicant's
employer, together with a brief description of credentials showing the exact
relationship.
   B.   Criminal History Report: Along with the written application, the
applicant shall obtain from the Oklahoma state bureau of investigation and
provide to the city clerk a current Oklahoma criminal history report. The
criminal record is considered current if it is dated no more than thirty (30)
days prior to the date on which the applicant submits a completed application
to the city clerk. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-4: APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE:
Any person making application for a license required by the provisions of this
chapter shall pay to the city clerk an application and investigation fee, due
upon submitting their application, as provided in the general schedule of fees
resolution. The fees shall be for the purposes of defraying the costs of
processing the application and reviewing the documents required by this
chapter. No such fees shall be refundable. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-
2003)
5-4-5: REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
review the criminal history information provided by the Oklahoma state bureau
of investigation and shall note thereon any relevant information concerning any
convictions of the applicant for any of the offenses specified in subsection E1
of this section.
   B.   The city clerk shall cause such other investigation or inquiry
concerning the applicant as deemed necessary to determine whether the
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter and
other applicable provisions of this code.
   C.   Upon completion of the necessary investigation as provided for by this
section, the city clerk shall review the application to ensure:
      1.   The applicant or the applicant's employer is a vendor registered
with the Oklahoma tax commission for the payment of sales tax, or he has
otherwise demonstrated that sales tax has been or is being paid on the items
sold, or the applicant or the applicant's employer is exempt from payment of
such tax;
      2.   The applicant or the applicant's employer is aware of his or her
responsibility to collect and pay sales tax, unless tax exempt;
      3.   The applicant's character or business responsibility is not
"unsatisfactory" (as defined in subsection E of this section);
      4.   The applicant's proposed signs and locations therefor comply with
all of the provisions of this code.
      5.   The application otherwise complies with all of the provisions of
this code.
   D.   Within seven (7) business days after receipt of the application, the
city clerk shall either approve or disapprove of the application. Grounds for
disapproval shall be the following:
      1.   A finding that the application is incomplete;
      2.   Nonpayment of the application fee and investigation fee;
      3.   Failure of the applicant to verify that he or she, or his/her
employer, is a vendor registered with the Oklahoma tax commission for the
payment of sales tax; or that sales tax has been or is being paid on the items
sold; or that he or she, or his/her employer, is otherwise exempt from payment
of sales tax;
      4.   A finding that the applicant's proposed signs and locations therefor
are not in compliance with this code;
      5.   A finding that the application is not in conformance with other
applicable provisions of this chapter or other provisions of this code; or
      6.   A finding that the applicant's character or business responsibility
is "unsatisfactory" (as defined in subsection E of this section).
If the application is approved, the city clerk shall issue the license. If the
application is disapproved, the city clerk shall state, in writing and with
specificity, the reason(s) for disapproval. The city clerk shall immediately
notify the applicant of such disapproval. Mailing a copy of the letter of
disapproval to the address shown on the application shall be deemed to be
adequate notification of the applicant.
   E.   For the purposes of this chapter, "unsatisfactory character or business
responsibility" of an applicant shall be defined as follows:
      1.   A finding that the applicant has been convicted of murder, voluntary
manslaughter, robbery, burglary, larceny, theft, fraud, an offense involving
moral turpitude, any nonconsensual sex offense, any offense involving a minor
as a victim, any offense involving physical injury to a victim; any offense
involving the possession, use, distribution or sale of a controlled dangerous
substance, any offense involving a firearm, or a felony;
      2.   A finding that the applicant has been convicted of two (2) or more
violations of the provisions of this chapter within the preceding twelve (12)
months; or
      3.   A finding that a previous license held by the applicant pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter was revoked within the previous twelve (12)
months. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-6: APPEAL OF DENIAL OF LICENSE:
An applicant who has been denied a license under this chapter may appeal the
denial to the city manager. The appeal shall be de novo upon the same criteria
for issuance of a license as set forth above. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-
2003)
5-4-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire one
year from its anniversary date, unless sooner revoked. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003,
eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be used or worn at
any time by any person other than the licensee to whom it was issued. (Ord.
5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Barterers, outdoor sellers, peddlers and solicitors are hereby required to
exhibit and display their licenses or authorized evidence thereof in plain
sight at all times whenever they are engaged in peddling or soliciting. (Ord.
5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
instanter if it appears the licensee has provided materially false information
in procuring the license; is in material breach of the requirements of this
chapter and such breach is not subject to immediate remedy by licensee; or
licensee presents an imminent threat to the peace and welfare of citizens. In
such case licensee shall be entitled to immediate hearing for return of license
before:
      1.   The city clerk, or if unavailable,
      2.   A municipal judge, or if unavailable,
      3.   The assistant city manager, or if unavailable,
      4.   The highest ranking sworn police officer on duty with the police
department.
   B.   Further, licenses may be revoked upon notice to licensee for, but not
inclusive of, the following grounds:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or any false statement contained in the
application for the license.
      2.   Conviction of the licensee for murder, voluntary manslaughter,
robbery, burglary, larceny, theft, fraud, an offense involving moral turpitude,
any nonconsensual sex offense, any offense involving a minor as a victim, any
offense resulting in physical injury to the victim and any offense involving
the possession, use, distribution or sale of a controlled dangerous substance,
any offense involving a firearm, or a felony.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee for a violation of the provisions of this
chapter within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      4.   A finding that the licensee has conducted the business for which the
license was issued in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-11: SURRENDER UPON EXPIRATION OR REVOCATION:
When a license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter expires, or is
revoked, its holder shall surrender it to the city clerk and the license shall
become the property of the city. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-12: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
The holder of any expiring license issued under this chapter who desires a new
license shall file a written application for renewal with the city clerk. The
application for renewal shall contain the information required in section
5-4-3 of this chapter, except, at the discretion of the police department, new
photographs shall not be required if the existing photograph continues to be a
good likeness of the applicant. The city clerk, in determining whether to
approve or disapprove an application for renewal of a license, shall be guided
by the provisions in section
5-4-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-13: OUTDOOR SELLERS; FIXED OUTDOOR LOCATION OF BUSINESS TO BE SPECIFIED ON
LICENSE:
The city clerk shall specify on the face of the license the legal address of
the fixed outdoor location desired for business by any outdoor seller. The
outdoor seller shall engage in business only at the fixed outdoor location
specified on the face of the license. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-14: OUTDOOR SELLER COMPLIANCE WITH SITE PLAN; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   All outdoor sellers shall comply with the site plan submitted pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter in regard to the fixed outdoor location
specified therein, and in regard to the location of any structure, vehicle,
sign, or display to be used while conducting business at such fixed outdoor
location.
   B.   An outdoor seller who desires a different fixed outdoor location for
conducting business, or who desires to otherwise amend the submitted site plan,
shall file an amended site plan prior to deviating from the site plan then on
file with the city clerk. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-15: EXCEPTION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Any person holding or operating pursuant to a valid permit to
conduct charitable solicitations under the provisions of the Oklahoma
solicitation of charitable contributions act, 18 Oklahoma Statutes 552.1 et
seq., and any modification thereof;
      2.   Groups and individuals who are exempt from complying with the above
cited act;
      3.   Participants in trade shows or conventions, trade fairs or flea
markets;
      4.   Participants in fairs and other similar activities conducted
primarily for amusement and entertainment;
      5.   Participants engaging in fundraising activities on the behalf of
local public/private schools and religious institutions. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003,
eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-16: HOURS OF BUSINESS:
In order to protect residents in the peaceful possession of their homes and
properties, no barterer, peddler or solicitor shall conduct business within any
residential zoning districts, except between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. each day; provided, however, that
solicitations may be made where the person solicited has agreed by previously
arranged appointment for a time other than the prescribed hours. (Ord. 5988, 8-
11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-17: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   No barterer, outdoor seller, peddler or solicitor shall engage in
business within any portion of any public right of way or within sixty feet
(60') of the curb line of any street; provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to a landowner who has expressly reserved in a written easement
agreement with the city the right to use defined portions of any public right
of way for his or her business purposes or to the lawful successor(s) or assign
(s) of any such landowner. (Ord. 5991, 10-13-2003)
5-4-18: INVITATION REQUIRED TO ENTER POSTED PREMISES:
No barterer, peddler or solicitor shall enter any premises or attempt to sell,
peddle or solicit where the owner or occupant of such premises has indicated
his/her desire not to be contacted for sales or solicitations by the placing of
a "No Solicitors", "No Trespassers", or "No Trespassing" sign on those
premises, and any such entrance or attempt to barter, sell, peddle or solicit
shall constitute a trespass upon private property and a violation of this code.
(Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-19: USE OF PUBLIC MARKETS FOR VENDING REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall stand in or occupy any place in or upon any street,
street crossing, sidewalk or other public way other than places designated by
proper authority as market places for the purpose of trading in, selling,
crying, exhibiting, or vending any goods, chattels, merchandise, patent
articles, patent rights, medicines, nostrums or drugs.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Persons selling grains, fruits, and vegetables of their own
production, provided that the streets shall not be blocked or obstructed
thereby;
      2.   Sales made by officers on execution or other judicial processes.
(Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-20: PEDESTRIANS STOPPING VEHICLES IN STREETS OR PARKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or
attempt to stop any person or any vehicle for the purpose of:
      1.   Soliciting charitable or other contributions;
      2.   Selling or attempting to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      3.   Handing or attempting to hand any person in any vehicle any
circular, advertisement, handbill, political campaign literature, or any
sample, souvenir or gift;
      4.   Attempting to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any
other similar purpose. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-21: CRYING WARES PROHIBITED:
No person shall call attention to his business, or to the wares which he may
have for sale, by crying them out, by blowing a horn, by ringing a bell, or by
any other noise making device, except as specifically permitted by this
chapter. No such person shall, by means of any dancing, singing, or other
exhibition, call about him upon the highways to numbers of people, or in any
way interfere with the free passage of pedestrians and vehicles along the
highways. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
5-4-22: DISPLAY OF USED MOTOR VEHICLES AND BOATS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall display, nor allow the display of used motor vehicles
including recreational vehicles or boats on any property that is not licensed
by the Oklahoma used motor vehicle and parts commission as a used motor vehicle
dealer location in accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 582 et seq.,
and any modification thereof.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The display of a used vehicle on property owned or leased by the
title holder of the vehicle;
      2.   Sales made by officers on execution or other judicial processes.
(Ord. 5991, 10-13-2003)
5-4-23: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense punishable within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court.
Every act of outdoor selling without a license or otherwise in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 5988, 8-11-2003, eff.
10-1-2003)
CHAPTER 5
TAXICABS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definition
5-5-2: License Required; Nontransferable
5-5-3: Application For License
5-5-4: Insurance Required
5-5-5: License Fee
5-5-6: Expiration Of License
5-5-7: Issuance Of License
5-5-8: Display Of License
5-5-9: Identification Of Vehicle
5-5-10: Operation While Intoxicated
5-5-11: Revocation Of License
5-5-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, the word "taxicab" shall mean and include all
automobiles carrying passengers for hire within the limits of the city, except
ambulances and vehicles licensed by the state corporation commission to
transport passengers between towns and cities in the state. (1980 Code § 33-1)
5-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; NONTRANSFERABLE:
No person shall operate or permit to be operated any taxicab in the city unless
a proper license, per taxicab, has been issued to the owner thereof, and such
license is in full force and effect. Such license shall be nontransferable.
(1980 Code § 33-16; amd. 2003 Code)
5-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license under this chapter shall be in writing and
verified by the applicant or his duly authorized representative. Such
application shall be filed with the city clerk and shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and, if a partnership, the names
and addresses of all the partners; if a corporation, the state of incorporation
and the names and addresses of the officers and directors thereof.
   B.   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant.
   C.   The number of taxicabs to be used, with a description showing the make,
model, seating capacity, motor number, serial number, certificate of title
number and such other information as the city shall require. (1980 Code § 33-
17)
5-5-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Proof Of Financial Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for an owner or
driver to operate a taxicab within the corporate limits of the city unless such
owner or driver shall first have filed with the city clerk proof of financial
responsibility as provided by state law, or as it may be amended. (1980 Code §
33-18; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Cancellation: When public liability insurance is used to
satisfy proof of financial responsibility, the insurance policy shall contain a
clause obligating the insurance company to give fifteen (15) days' written
notice to the city clerk prior to cancellation of such insurance.
   C.   Vehicle Identification: Further, such insurance policy shall list the
vehicle identification number of each and every vehicle covered under said
policy, and the insurance company shall immediately notify the city clerk of
any additions or deletions from the coverage. When a vehicle has been removed
from coverage of the insurance policy, such vehicle shall not be operated upon
the streets or highways of the city until required coverage is again secured.
   D.   Policy Cancellation: If, at any time, the policy of insurance required
by this section is cancelled by the company issuing the same, or the authority
of the company to do business in this state shall be revoked, the city clerk
shall require the owner to replace such policy with another policy satisfactory
to the city attorney and, in default thereof, the owner's permission to operate
a taxicab shall be revoked. (1980 Code § 33-18)
5-5-5: LICENSE FEE:
An annual license fee as established by resolution of the board of
commissioners from time to time for each taxicab shall be paid to the city
clerk in advance. Such fee shall be in addition to any fee required by the laws
of the state. No fee required by this section shall be prorated. (1980 Code §
33-19; amd. 2003 Code)
5-5-6: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under this chapter shall expire on April 30 next following
the date of issuance. (1980 Code § 33-20)
5-5-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the filing of a proper application for a license required by the
provisions of this chapter, and upon payment of the required fee, the city
clerk shall issue such license to the applicant. (1980 Code § 33-21)
5-5-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of each driver to display the license for his taxicab upon
the request of any person to do so. (1980 Code § 33-22)
5-5-9: IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLE:
Any person operating a motor vehicle for the carrying of passengers for hire
within the city shall cause to be placed upon said vehicle both the name of the
owner and the number assigned thereto by the owner in letters or numbers of not
less than five inches (5"), plainly visible at a distance of not less than one
hundred feet (100'), painted or affixed to both sides and to the rear of such
motor vehicle, but not on any window glass thereof. (1980 Code § 33-2)
5-5-10: OPERATION WHILE INTOXICATED:
No person shall be permitted to operate any taxicab for the carrying of
passengers for hire while such person is in an intoxicated condition. (1980
Code § 33-3)
5-5-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE 1 :
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the board of commissioners for the violation by the licensee or
his employee of any applicable provision of this code, state law or city
ordinance, rule or regulation. (1980 Code § 33-23)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title for hearing and appeal procedure.
CHAPTER 6
PET SHOPS, CATTERIES AND KENNELS 1
SECTION:
5-6-1: Licensing Requirements
5-6-2: Records
5-6-3: Sanitation
5-6-4: Inspection
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-3-1 of this code for animal related definitions.
5-6-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope: A license issued under this chapter shall be in lieu of all
other license fees prescribed; provided, that all dogs in such kennel shall at
all times be confined. Should such dog belonging to such owner be allowed off
the premises, the owner or keeper shall pay the same tax and license fee as
required for all dogs not kept by such a provision. (1980 Code § 7-115)
   B.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner or harborer of any dog or
cat, male or female, to keep or own more than four (4) cats or four (4) dogs or
a total more than four (4) of either at any one location or address, whether
business or residential, within the corporate limits of the city, unless owner
or harborer shall first possess a kennel or cattery license. (1980 Code § 7-
111)
   C.   Fee: The annual fee for a license required by the provisions of this
section shall be in such amount as established by resolution of the board of
commissioners from time to time. (1980 Code § 7-112; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Issuance: Upon proof of proper zoning and payment of the required
license fee, the license provided for by this section shall be issued. (1980
Code § 7-113)
   E.   Display: Each license issued under the provisions of this section shall
be posted upon the licensed premises at all times. (1980 Code § 7-114)
5-6-2: RECORDS:
All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall maintain records and retain such
records for a two (2) year period on all dogs and cats maintained in such
facility. Such records shall show breed, color, markings, sex and age; date and
source of animal; period for which animal is maintained; date and disposition
of animal, including name and address of new owner; disease prevention and/or
treatment and by whom. (1980 Code § 7-97)
5-6-3: SANITATION:
   A.   Generally: A pet shop, cattery or kennel shall provide general
environmental conditions to control parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection and clean and sanitary facilities. (1980 Code § 7-98)
   B.   Cages: Cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times. (1980 Code § 7-99)
5-6-4: INSPECTION:
Kennels coming under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
inspection by the animal control officer at any time. (1980 Code § 7-116)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
5-7-2: Appeal Procedure
5-7-3: Penalty
5-7-1: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the city manager
during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the licensee or
permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the subject of
the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may be in
addition to any fine imposed. The city manager shall be authorized to summarily
order the cessation of business, the closing of the premises, and the
suspension of any business license or permit for a period not to exceed fifteen
(15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city manager has so acted, the
manager shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the
license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The city manager shall preside and the board of commissioners shall
render the decision and recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
provisions of this code, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the city
manager after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the city code. (2003 Code)
5-7-2: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the board of commissioners.
Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the city
manager within five (5) days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   Board Consideration: The board of commissioners shall consider the
appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant
shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The board of
commissioners shall act on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and
shall either uphold the action of the manager or shall direct the issuance of a
license or permit which the city has denied or the reissuance of a license or
permit which the city had revoked. (2003 Code)
5-7-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
5-8-1: Title
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Permit To Install And Operate
5-8-4: Permit Required
5-8-5: Term Of The Permit
5-8-6: Permit Territory
5-8-7: Federal, State, And City Jurisdiction
5-8-8: Permit Nontransferable
5-8-9: Favored Nations
5-8-10: Purchase By City Upon Expiration Or Revocation
5-8-11: Geographical Coverage
5-8-12: Nonexclusive Permit
5-8-13: Multiple Permits
5-8-14: Initial Permit Application
5-8-15: Consideration Of Initial Application
5-8-16: Permit Renewal
5-8-17: Consumer Protection And Service Standards
5-8-18: Rate Regulation
5-8-19: Permit Fee
5-8-20: Design And Construction Requirements
5-8-21: Technical Standards
5-8-22: Use Of Grantee Facilities
5-8-23: Hold Harmless
5-8-24: Insurance
5-8-25: Records Required And Grantor's Right To Inspect
5-8-26: Annual Reports
5-8-27: Permit Violation
5-8-28: Force Majeure; Grantee's Inability To Perform
5-8-29: Rights Reserved To Grantor
5-8-30: Rights Of Individuals
5-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PONCA CITY CABLE TELEVISION
REGULATORY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is mandatory and "may" is
permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
CABLE SERVICE: A. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service; and
   C.   Any additional services as may be included in the definition of "cable
service" pursuant to FCC rule, congressional legislation or federal judicial
decision not subject to further appeal.
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A permittee's system of antennas, cables, amplifiers,
towers, microwave links, waveguides, satellites, or any other conductors,
converters, equipment or facilities designed and construed for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying, storing, processing, or distributing audio,
video, digital, or other forms of electronic, electrical, or light signals
capable of being transmitted by wire, cable, fiber optics, or radio to
subscribing members of the public in the city who pay for such services.
CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
that is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television
channel as defined by the federal communications commission.
COUNCIL: The mayor and board of commissioners of the city of Ponca City,
Oklahoma.
GRANTEE: Any person receiving a permit pursuant to this chapter, its agents,
employees, officers, designees, or any lawful successor, transferee or
assignee.
GRANTOR OR CITY: The city of Ponca City, Oklahoma, as represented by the mayor
and board of commissioners.
GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: All revenues legally or permissibly derived directly or
indirectly by the grantee or any person in which the grantee has a financial
interest from or in connection with the operation of the system pursuant to a
permit granted hereunder, including, but not limited to, basic subscriber and
additional service monthly fees, pay cable fees, installation and reconnection
fees, leased channel fees, converter rentals, studio rental, production
equipment and personnel fees, and advertising revenue; provided however, that
gross annual revenues shall not include any fees or taxes imposed directly on
grantee or subscriber by any local, state or federal governmental entity and
collected by grantee on behalf of that governmental unit.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system to subscribers' terminals, and the
provision of cable service.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers.
NORMAL OPERATION CONDITIONS: Those service conditions that are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions that are not within the control of the
grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances,
power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual weather
conditions, and significant legislative or regulatory requirements. Those
conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the grantee include, but
are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, regular peak or
seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the system.
PERMIT: The nonexclusive rights granted pursuant to this chapter to construct
and operate a cable system along the public ways within the city and provide
cable services.
PERMIT AGREEMENT: A permit granted pursuant to this chapter, containing the
specific provisions of the permit granted, including references,
specifications, requirements, and other related matters.
PERMIT FEE: Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city or other
governmental entity on a grantee or cable subscriber, or both, solely because
of their status as such. The term "permit fee" does not include:
   A.   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services, but not including a tax, fee, or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   B.   Capital costs that are required by the permit agreement to be incurred
by the cable operator for public, educational, or governmental access
facilities;
   C.   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the
permit agreement, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of
credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   D.   Any fee imposed under title 17 of the United States Code.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, organization, corporation,
firm, out stock company, joint venture, trust, limited liability company, or
other legally reorganized entity, private or public, whether for profit or not
for profit, or any lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of said
individual, partnership, association, organization, or corporation.
PUBLIC SCHOOL: Any school at any educational level operated within the city by
any public, private, or parochial school system, but limited to, elementary,
junior high school, and high school.
SERVICE AREA OR PERMIT AREA: The entire geographic area within the city as it
is now constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless otherwise
specified in the permit agreement.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels affecting at least ten percent (10%) of the subscribers on the system.
STREET: Each of the following that have been dedicated to the public or are
hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority or by
others and located within the city limits: streets, roadways, highways,
avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights of way and similar public
property and areas that the grantor shall permit to be included within the
definition of street from time to time.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who or which lawfully elects to subscribe to, for any
purpose, cable service provided by the grantee by means of or in connection
with the cable system and who pays the charges therefor, except such persons or
entities authorized to receive cable service without charge as described in the
permit agreement. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-3: PERMIT TO INSTALL AND OPERATE:
   A.   Permit granted by the city under the provisions of this chapter shall
encompass the following purposes:
      1.   To engage in the business of providing cable service, and such other
services as may be permitted by the permit agreement.
      2.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct, replace,
maintain, and retain, cable lines, related electronic equipment, supporting
structures, appurtenances, and other property in connection with the operation
of a cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across streets or other
public places within the designated service area.
      3.   To maintain and operate said permit properties for the origination,
reception, transmission, amplification, and distribution of television and
radio signals for the delivery of cable services and any other services
permitted by the permit agreement.
      4.   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the permit
agreement. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or operate a cable
television system in the city within any street without a properly granted
permit awarded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-
2004)
5-8-5: TERM OF THE PERMIT:
   A.   A permit granted hereunder shall be for a term established in the
permit agreement, commencing with the grantor's adoption of an ordinance or
resolution authorizing the permit.
   B.   A permit granted hereunder may be renewed upon application by the
grantee pursuant to the provisions of applicable state and federal law and of
this chapter. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-6: PERMIT TERRITORY:
Any permit shall be valid within all the territorial limits of the city, and
within any area added to the city during the term of the permit unless
otherwise specified in the permit agreement. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-7: FEDERAL, STATE, AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
   B.   In the event that the state or federal government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in such manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and regulations
in these areas to the extent permitted by law so long as it does not increase
the burdens on grantees.
   C.   This chapter shall apply to all permits granted or renewed after the
effective date hereof. It shall further apply to the extent permitted by
applicable federal or state law to all existing permits granted prior to the
effective date hereof.
   D.   Grantee's rights are subject to the police powers of the city to adopt
and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances
enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
   E.   Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or any permit granted pursuant to this chapter
by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
   F.   This chapter and any permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the state of
Oklahoma. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-8: PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Grantee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose of,
in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale,
consolidation or otherwise, the permit and/or cable system or any of the rights
or privileges granted by the permit, without the prior consent of the council
which consent shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed and shall be denied
only upon a good faith finding by the city that the proposed transferee lacks
the legal, technical or financial qualifications to perform its obligations
under the permit agreement. Any attempt to sell, transfer, lease, assign or
otherwise dispose of the permit and/or cable system without the consent of the
council shall be null and void. This provision shall not apply to sales of
property or equipment in the normal course of business. No consent from the
city shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage, or other instrument
of hypothecation, in whole or in part, to secure an indebtedness, or for a pro
forma transfer to a corporation, partnership or other entity controlling,
controlled by or under common control with grantee. The following events shall
be deemed to be a sale, assignment or other transfer of the permit and/or cable
system requiring compliance with this section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all of the majority of
grantee's assents;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in grantee by one or more of
its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in grantee;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by grantee so as to create a new controlling interest
in grantee; and
      4.   The entry by the grantee into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of the grantee and/or the system.
The term "controlling interest" as used herein means majority equity ownership
of the grantee.
   B.   The grantee shall promptly notify the city of the potential or actual
occurrence of any of the events listed in subsection A of this section.
   C.   By its acceptance of this permit and except as provided for herein, the
grantee specifically grants and agrees that any such sale, assignment or
transfer occurring without prior approval of the council shall constitute a
violation of this permit by the grantee. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-9: FAVORED NATIONS:
In the event grantee shall enter into any other cable television permit or
franchise with any political subdivision within a fifty (50) mile radius from
the city, providing for technological improvements or upgrades not currently
available in the city, grantee shall notify the city of the same within thirty
(30) days of the effective date of the other permit or franchise.
Following notification, grantee shall submit a schedule for providing the same
technological improvements or upgrade to be effectuated within the same period
of time as the other permit; provided, however, that grantee is able to recoup
its costs in a manner consistent with the terms agreed upon in the other
political subdivision. The city may grant extensions, where necessary, upon
application by the grantee when reasonable cause is demonstrated. (Ord. 6007,
8-23-2004)
5-8-10: PURCHASE BY CITY UPON EXPIRATION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   If, subject to the provisions of the cable act, a renewal of a permit
is denied and all appeals denied, the city may purchase to the extent permitted
by applicable federal, state and local law and upon payment to the grantee of
the cable systems' fair market value as a going concern, exclusive of any value
allocated to the permit itself, that portion of grantee's cable system serving
the city of Ponca City.
   B.   Subject to the cable act, if a permit is revoked for cause, the city
may, to the extent permitted by applicable federal, state and local law,
acquire that portion of the cable system serving the city of Ponca City upon
payment of an equitable price.
   C.   In addition to the rights conferred in subsections A and B of this
section, the city shall have the right to purchase the then owned physical
properties and property rights of the grantee, its successors and assigns,
situated and being within the corporate limits of the city and installed and
used under this permit or prior permit agreement, and terminate all privileges
granted thereby, upon petition for purchase thereof being presented to the
council signed by a number of qualified electors of the city, equal to twenty
five percent (25%) of the total number of votes cast at the next preceding
general municipal election. Upon the submission of such a petition, the matter
of the acquisition of such property by the city shall be submitted at an
election and shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the qualified
voters of the city voting thereon at an election held for that purpose. The
election shall be held at the next succeeding election in the city and notice
of the holding of the election and that fact that the question of acquiring the
property will be submitted to the qualified voters thereon shall be given at
least sixty (60) days prior to the date of such election by publication in a
newspaper published and of general circulation within the city. If, in said
election, a majority of the qualified voters shall vote to purchase the
physical properties of the grantee, its successor and assigns, then the
grantee, its successors and assigns, shall be compensated by the city for the
value of the physical property and property rights, which value shall be
determined by the report of the majority of three (3) arbitrators one of whom
shall be selected by the council, one by the grantee, its successors and
assigns, and the third by the two (2) arbitrators so selected. If the two (2)
arbitrators cannot agree on a third arbitrator, the district judge of Kay
County shall so appoint the third arbitrator. The arbitrators so appointed
shall be persons of recognized ability in the appraisal and valuation of
similar properties, shall be pecuniary disinterested persons, and none of the
arbitrators shall be a resident of the city nor an officer, employee,
stockholder or director of the grantee. In determining the value of the
property and property rights, the arbitrators shall consider and give effect to
all the elements of value of said physical properties and property rights of
the grantee consistent with the elements of value of the properties of cable
television companies as recognized by the courts and/or applicable authorities
in determining compensation for the taking of property. In the event the
grantee, its successors and assigns, shall refuse for a period of thirty (30)
days to select an arbitrator, then the value of such property shall be fixed by
the council acting fairly and in good faith. In no event shall the ownership or
right of possession of such property pass to the city until it shall have fully
paid to the grantee, its successors and assigns, the value of such property
honestly determined in the manner above provided. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-11: GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE:
   A.   Cable System: Grantee shall design, construct, operate and maintain the
cable system throughout the entire permit area pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter and any permit agreement.
   B.   Line Extensions: In all areas of the permit area, the grantee shall be
required to extend its cable system pursuant to the following requirements:
      1.   Grantee must extend and make the cable system available to every
residential unit in all unserved, developing areas having at least twenty five
(25) residential units per cable mile as measured from the existing cable
system, and shall extend its cable system simultaneously with the installation
of utility lines provided that the grantee is provided timely notice of such
extensions.
      2.   Grantee must extend and make the cable system available to any
isolated resident requesting connection at the standard connection charge, if
the connection to the isolated resident would require no more than a one
hundred fifty foot (150') aerial drop line.
   C.   Early Extension: In areas not meeting the requirement for mandatory
extension of service, grantee shall provide, upon the request of a potential
subscriber desiring service, an estimate of the costs required to extend
service to said subscriber, and if agreeable by the resident, such connection
shall be made on a 50/50 cost sharing basis. Grantee may require advance
payment or assurance of payment satisfactory to the grantee. The amount paid by
subscribers for early extension shall be nonrefundable, however, in the event
the area reaches within ten (10) years the density required for mandatory
extensions, such resident's payments shall be credited against the subscriber's
subsequent bills.
   D.   New Development Underground: In cases of new construction or property
development where utilities are to be placed underground, the developer or
property owner shall give the grantee reasonable notice of such construction or
development, and of the particular date on which open trenching will be
available for grantee's installation of conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and
laterals to be provided at grantee's expense. Grantee shall also provide
specifications as needed for trenching. Costs of trenching and easements
required to bring service to the development shall be borne by the grantee.
   E.   Areas Not Covered By Agreement: Nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent grantee from serving areas not covered under this section upon
agreement with developers, property owners, or residents. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-
2004)
5-8-12: NONEXCLUSIVE PERMIT:
Any permit granted shall be nonexclusive. The grantor specifically reserves the
right to grant, at any time, such additional permits for a cable system or any
other components thereof, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable state
and federal law; provided, however no permit shall be granted on terms
materially less burdensome or more favorable than any other permit granted
hereunder. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-13: MULTIPLE PERMITS:
   A.   Grantor may grant one or more permits for the service area. Grantor
may, in its sole discretion, limit the number of permits granted, based upon,
but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law and specific
local considerations; such as:
      1.   The capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate multiple
coaxial and fiber optic cables, in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes
of the utility systems, such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
      2.   The impact on the community of having multiple permits.
      3.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as requirements for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights of way.
      4.   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed system for the duration of the permit term.
   B.   Each grantee awarded a permit to serve the entire city shall offer
service to all residents in the city, in accordance with construction and
service schedules mutually agreed upon between grantor and grantee, and
consistent with applicable law.
   C.   Grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its own
underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in grantor's
opinion, the rights of way in any particular area cannot feasibly and
reasonably accommodate additional cables.
   D.   Any additional permit granted by the city to provide cable service in a
part of the city in which a permit has already been granted and where an
existing grantee is providing service shall require the new grantee to provide
service throughout its service area within a reasonable time and in a sequence
which does not discriminate against lower income residents. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-
2004)
5-8-14: INITIAL PERMIT APPLICATION:
Any person desiring an initial permit for a cable television system shall file
an application with the city. A reasonable nonrefundable application fee
established by the city shall accompany the application or renewal application.
Such application fee shall not be deemed to be "permit fees" within the meaning
of section 622 of the cable act (47 USC section 542), and such payments shall
not be deemed to be "payments in kind" or any involuntary payments chargeable
against the compensation to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant to this
chapter and applicable provisions of a permit agreement.
An application for an initial permit for a cable television system shall
contain, where applicable:
   A.   A statement as to the proposed permit and service area.
   B.   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal, technical
and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field.
   C.   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by each
shareholder, if a corporation.
   D.   List of officers, directors, and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person.
   E.   The names and addressees of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part,
or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant.
   F.   A current financial statement or applicant verified by a CPA audit or
otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city.
   G.   Proposed construction and service schedule.
   H.   Any additional information that the city deems applicable. (Ord. 6007,
8-23-2004)
5-8-15: CONSIDERATION OF INITIAL APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of any application for an initial permit, the city manager
shall prepare a report and make his recommendations respecting such application
to the council.
   B.   A public hearing shall be set prior to any initial permit grant, at a
time and date approved by the council. Within thirty (30) days after the close
of the hearing, the council shall make a decision based upon the evidence
received at the hearing as to whether or not the permit(s) should be granted,
and, if granted, subject to what conditions. The council may grant one or more
initial permits, or may decline to grant any permit. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-16: PERMIT RENEWAL:
Permit renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law including, but not
necessarily limited to, the cable communications policy act of 1984, as
amended. Grantor and grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal
negotiations at any time during the term of the permit. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-17: CONSUMER PROTECTION AND SERVICE STANDARDS:
Except as otherwise provided in the permit agreement, grantee shall maintain a
local office or offices to provide the necessary facilities, equipment and
personnel to comply with the following consumer protection standards under
normal operating conditions:
   A.   Cable System Office Hours And Telephone Availability:
      1.   Grantee will maintain a toll-free or collect call telephone access
line which will be available to its subscribers twenty four (24) hours a day,
seven (7) days a week.
      2.   Trained grantee representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
      3.   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by a
service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
      4.   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
   B.   Installations, Outages And Service Calls:
      1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7) business
days after an order has been placed. "Standard" installations are those that
are located up to one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the existing
distribution system.
      2.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of grantee, grantee shall
begin working on "service interruptions" promptly and in no event later than
twenty four (24) hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee must
begin actions to correct other service problems the next business day after
notification of the service problem.
      3.   At the subscriber's request, the "appointment window" alternatives
for installations, service calls, and other installation activities will be
within a two (2) to four (4) hour time block during normal business hours. (The
grantee may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of
normal business hours for the express convenience of the customer.)
   C.   Communications Between Grantee And Subscribers:
      1.   Notifications To Subscribers: The grantee shall provide written
information on each of the following areas at the time of installation of
service, at least annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request.
         a.   Products and services offered;
         b.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscriptions to programming and other services;
         c.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
         d.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
         e.   Channel positions programming carried on the system; and
         f.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the city's cable office.
Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming services or
channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the cable system
and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of thirty (30)
days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control of the
grantee. In addition, the grantee shall notify subscribers thirty (30) days in
advance of any significant changes in the other information required by the
preceding paragraph.
   D.   Billing:
      1.   Bill Setup: Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills
must be fully itemized, and will also clearly delineate all activity during the
billing period, including optional charges, rebates, and credits.
      2.   Billing Dispute: In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must
respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days.
      3.   Refunds: Refund checks will be issued promptly, but not later than
either the customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the request or
thirty (30) days, whichever is earlier, or at the time the grantee supplied
equipment is returned if service is terminated.
      4.   Credits: Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-18: RATE REGULATION:
The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable service and any
other services offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted by
federal or state law. The grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation
provisions provided for herein, and those of the federal communications
commission (FCC) at 47 CFR, part 76.900, subpart N. The city shall follow the
rules relating to cable rate regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 CFR, part
76.900, subpart N. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-19: PERMIT FEE:
   A.   Following the issuance and acceptance of a permit, the grantee shall
pay to the grantor a permit fee in the amount set forth in the permit
agreement.
   B.   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
sixty (60) days of the close of the calendar year, certified by an officer of
the grantee or his designee or audited by a certified public accountant,
reflecting the total amount of gross annual revenues and all payments, and
computations for the previous calendar year. Upon ten (10) days prior written
notice, grantor shall have the right to conduct an independent audit of
grantee's records, in accordance with generally accepted accounted principles
and if such audit indicates a permit fee underpayment of five percent (5%) or
more, the grantee shall assume all reasonable costs of such an audit.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the grantor may have or further or additional sums payable as a
permit fee under this chapter or any permit agreement or for the performance of
any other obligation of the grantee.
   D.   In the event that any permit fee payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified in the permit agreement, grantee shall
pay as additional compensation an interest charge, computed from such due date,
at an annual rate equal to the prime lending rate plus one and one-half percent
(11/2%) during the period for which payment was due.
   E.   Permit fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the permit agreement. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-20: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Cable System Facilities: Grantee shall not construct, reconstruct,
maintain or repair any cable system facilities until grantee has secured the
necessary permits from grantor, or other cognizant public agencies.
   B.   Street Occupancy:
      1.   Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other facilities
whenever possible, and shall not construct or install any new, different or
additional poles, conduits or other facilities whether on public property or on
privately owned property until the written approval of the city is obtained,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no location of any
pole or wire holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and
such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the city determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby. Should grantee be permitted to use grantor's poles for its
cable system, grantee shall follow all the rules and regulations of grantor
with respect to the use of the poles and pay the annual five dollars ($5.00)
per pole compensation as provided by written agreement.
      2.   The facilities of the grantee shall be installed underground in
those areas of the city where existing telephone and electric services are both
underground at the time of system construction. In areas where telephone or
electric utility facilities are installed aerially at the time of system
construction, the grantee may install its facilities aerially with the
understanding that at such time as the existent aerial facilities are required
to be placed underground by the city, the grantee shall likewise place its
facilities underground.
      3.   A grantee shall notify the city at least ten (10) days prior to the
intention of the grantee to commence any construction in any streets. The city
shall cooperate with the grantee in granting any permits required, providing
such grant and subsequent construction by the grantee shall not unduly
interfere with the use of such streets and that proposed construction shall be
done in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the ordinances of the city.
      4.   All transmission lines, equipment and structures shall be installed
and located as to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners and at all times, shall be kept and maintained
in a safe, adequate and substantial condition, and in good order and repair.
The grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures
and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public. Suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares or other devices shall be
used at such time and places as are reasonably required for the safety of all
members of the public. Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public way by
the grantee shall be placed in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual
travel on such public way.
      5.   Grantee shall, at its own expense, and in a manner approved by the
city, restore to city standards and specifications any damage or disturbance
caused to the public way as a result of its operations or construction on its
behalf.
      6.   Whenever, in case of fire or other disaster, it becomes necessary in
the judgment of the chief of the fire department or chief of the police
department to remove any of the grantee's facilities, no charge shall be made
by the grantee against the city for restoration and repair, unless such actions
result from the negligence, gross negligence or wilful disregard by the city.
      7.   Grantee or its designee shall have the authority to trim trees on
public property at its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and
facilities, subject to the supervision and direction of the city. Trimming of
trees on private property shall require consent of the property owner.
      8.   The grantee at its expense shall protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of grantee when, in the opinion of
the city the same is required by reason of traffic conditions, public safety,
street vacation, freeway or street construction, change or establishment of
street grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power line, signal
line, transportation facilities, tracks, or any other types of structure or
improvements by governmental agencies, whether acting in a governmental or a
proprietary capacity, or any other structure or public improvement, including,
but not limited to, movement of buildings, urban renewal and redevelopment, and
any general program under which the city shall undertake to cause all such
properties to be located beneath the surface of the ground. The grantee shall
in all cases have the privilege, subject to the corresponding obligations, to
abandon any property of grantee in place.
      9.   Upon failure of grantee to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter to be done in any street,
within the time prescribed and to the satisfaction of the city, the city may,
at its option, cause such work to be done and the grantee shall pay to the city
the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the city to grantee within
thirty (30) days after receipt of such itemized report. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-21: TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   A.   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system
in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, ordinances, construction
standards, governmental requirements, federal communications commission
technical standards, and any standards set forth in this chapter and the permit
agreement. In addition, the grantee shall provide to the grantor, upon request,
a written report of the results of the grantee's periodic proof of performance
tests conducted pursuant to federal communications commission standards and
guidelines.
      1.   Minimum Network Technical Requirements: The cable system shall be
operated so as to meet the following general objectives:
         a.   Capable of continuous twenty four (24) hour daily operation.
         b.   Capable of operating over an outdoor temperature range of twenty
degrees Fahrenheit (20°F) to one hundred twenty plus degrees Fahrenheit
(120+°F) without catastrophic failure or irreversible performance changes over
variations in supply voltages from one hundred five (105) to one hundred thirty
(130) volts AC.
         c.   Capable of meeting all specifications as set forth herein over an
outdoor temperature range of zero degrees Fahrenheit (0°F) to one hundred plus
degrees Fahrenheit (100+°F) over variations in supply voltages from one hundred
five (105) to one hundred thirty (130) volts AC.
         d.   Operated in such a manner as to avoid causing interference with
reception of off the air signals by nonsubscriber to the network.
         e.   Designed, installed and operated so as to assure the delivery to
all subscribers of standard color and monochrome signals on the FCC designed
class 1 channels without noticeable picture degradation or visible evidence of
color distortion or other forms of interference directly attributable to the
performance of the cable system.
      2.   Performance Monitoring:
         a.   Test procedures used in verification of the performance criteria
set forth herein, if not set forth in paragraph 76.609, subpart K of the FCC
rules and regulations, shall be in accordance with good engineering practice
and shall be fully described in an attachment to the annual report to be filed
on request by the city.
         b.   To the extent that the report of measurements as required above
may be combined with any reports of measurements required by the FCC or other
regulatory agencies, the city shall accept such combined reports, provided that
all standards and measurements herein or hereafter established by the city are
satisfied.
         c.   At any time after commencement of service to subscribers the city
may require additional tests, full or partial repeat tests, different test
procedures, or tests involving a specific subscriber's terminal. Requests for
such additional tests will be made on the basis of complaints received or other
good faith evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or significant
noncompliance by the grantee, and such tests will be limited to the particular
matter in controversy. The city will endeavor to so arrange its request for
such special tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to grantee or to
the subscriber.
   B.   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical standards
shall constitute a material permit violation.
   C.   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all applicable
sections of the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as amended, as well
as all other applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   D.   All installation of electronic equipment shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of the national electrical safety code and
national electrical code, as amended, and as may from time to time be amended.
   E.   Antennas and their supporting structures (towers) shall be painted,
lighted, erected, and maintained in accordance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the federal aviation administration and all other applicable
local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   F.   All of grantee's plant and equipment, including, but not limited to,
the antenna site, headend and distribution system, towers, house connections,
structures, poles, wire, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances shall be
installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained, and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced maintenance and construction personnel so
as not to endanger or interfere with improvements that the city may deem
appropriate to make or to interfere in any manner with the rights of any
property owner, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
   G.   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing failures and
accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to the public.
(Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-22: USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES:
The city shall have the right to install, at its own expense, and maintain,
free of charge, upon the poles and within the underground pipes and conduits of
grantee, any wires and fixtures desired by the city to the extent that such
installation and maintenance does not interfere with existing operations of
grantee. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-23: HOLD HARMLESS:
   A.   Grantee, under any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall agree
to indemnify, hold harmless, release and defend the city, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees from and against any and all lawsuits,
claims, causes of action, actions, liability, demands, damages, disability,
losses, expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs or liabilities
of any nature that may be asserted by any person resulting or in any manner
arising from the action or inaction of the grantee in constructing, operating,
maintaining, repairing or removing the system, in carrying on grantee's
business or operation in the city or in exercising or failing to exercise any
right or privilege granted by the permit. This indemnity shall apply, without
limitation, to any action or cause of action for invasion of privacy,
defamation, antitrust, errors and omissions, theft, fire, violation or
infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade names, service mark or patent,
or any other right of any person, firm or corporation, whether or not any act
or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter
or any permit agreement, but shall not include any claim or action arising out
of the actions or omissions of city officers, employees or agents or related to
any city programming or other access programming for which the grantee is not
legally responsible.
   B.   The city shall promptly notify grantee of any claims subject to
indemnification by grantee and shall cooperate with all reasonable requests by
grantee for information, documents, testimony or other assistance appropriate
to a resolution of such claims. Grantee shall have full responsibility for and
control of any action or undertaking directed at the resolution of such claims.
(Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-24: INSURANCE:
Grantee shall provide insurance as specified in the permit agreement. (Ord.
6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-25: RECORDS REQUIRED AND GRANTOR'S RIGHT TO INSPECT:
   A.   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
      1.   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as built" maps
showing the location of the cable system installed or in use in the city,
exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in subscribers'
homes.
      2.   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying the
number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis. A
summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the grantor within thirty
(30) days following its request in a form reasonably acceptable to the grantor.
   B.   Upon forty eight (48) hours' written notice, and during normal business
hours, grantee shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative
of the grantor, all records relating to the permit, provided they are necessary
to enable the grantor to carry out its regulatory responsibilities under local,
state and federal law, this chapter and the permit agreement. Such records
include, all books, records, maps, plans, financial statements, service
complaint logs, performance test results, records of request for service, and
other like materials of grantee. Grantee shall have the right to be present at
any such examination.
   C.   If any of the records described in the previous subsection are
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by state, federal or local
law, upon proper request by grantee, such information obtained during such an
inspection shall be treated as confidential, making it available only to those
persons who must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the city,
including, but not limited to, the city manager, city attorney and city clerk.
To the extent that any federal or state requirement for privacy applies to the
information to be submitted, said law shall control.
   D.   Copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports
submitted by grantee, or on behalf of or relating to grantee, to the federal
communications commission, securities and exchange commission, or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction with
respect to any matters affecting the cable system authorized pursuant to this
chapter and any permit agreement shall be made available to the city upon
request. Copies of responses from the regulatory agencies to grantee shall
likewise be furnished to the city upon request. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-26: ANNUAL REPORTS:
   A.   Grantee shall submit a written end of the year report to grantor with
respect to the preceding calendar year containing the following information:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development and operation of
the cable system, including, but not limited to, services begun or discontinued
during the reporting year.
      2.   A list of grantee's officers, members of its board of directors, and
other principals of grantee.
      3.   A list of stockholders or other equity investors holding five
percent (5%) or more of the voting interest in grantee.
      4.   Information as to the number of subscribers and the number of basic
and pay service subscribers.
      5.   The city, including its agents and representatives, shall have the
authority, during normal business hours, to arrange for and conduct an
inspection of annual reports required pursuant to this chapter or a permit
agreement. The city shall give the grantee twenty four (24) hours written
notice of the inspection request. If the requested information is proprietary
in nature or must be kept confidential by state, federal or local law, upon
proper request by grantee, such information obtained during such an inspection
shall be treated as confidential making it available only to those persons who
must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the city, including, but
not limited to, the city manager, city attorney and city clerk. To the extent
any federal requirement for privacy applies to the information to be submitted,
said law shall control.
   B.   All reports and records required under this chapter shall be furnished
at the sole expense of grantee, except as otherwise provided in this chapter or
the permit agreement. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-27: PERMIT VIOLATION:
If grantee fails to perform in a timely manner any material obligation required
by this chapter or a permit granted hereunder, following notice from the
grantor and an opportunity to cure such nonperformance, grantor may act to
remedy such violation in accordance with the following procedures:
Grantor shall notify grantee of any alleged material violation in writing by
personal delivery or registered or certified mail, and demand correction within
a reasonable time, which shall not be less than ten (10) days in the case of
the failure of the grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor under
this chapter or the permit agreement and thirty (30) days in all other cases.
If grantee fails either to correct the violation within the time prescribed or
to commence correction of the violation within the time prescribed and
thereafter diligently pursue correction of such violation, the grantor shall
then give written notice of not less than twenty (20) days of a public hearing
to be held before the council. Said notice shall specify the violations alleged
to have occurred. At the public hearing, the council shall hear and consider
relevant evidence and thereafter render findings and its decision. In the event
that the council finds that a material violation exists and that grantee has
not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or has not diligently commenced
correction of such violation after notice thereof from grantor and is not
diligently proceeding to fully remedy such violation, the council may revoke
the permit or impose any other penalty permitted by the permit agreement. (Ord.
6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-28: FORCE MAJEURE; GRANTEE'S INABILITY TO PERFORM:
In the event grantee's performance of any of the terms, conditions or
obligations required by this chapter or a permit granted hereunder is prevented
by a cause or event not within grantee's control, such inability to perform
shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a
result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events not within
the control of grantee shall include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes,
sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, restraints imposed by order of a
governmental agency or court, failure or loss of utilities, explosions, acts of
public enemies, and natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides,
and fires. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-29: RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR:
   A.   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter, the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is required
to be reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the permit agreement.
   B.   The grantor shall have the right to waive any provision of this chapter
and the permit agreement, except those required by federal or state
regulations, if the grantor determines: 1) that it is in the public interest to
do so, and 2) that the enforcement of such provisions will impose an undue
hardship on the grantee or the subscribers. To be effective, such waiver shall
be evidenced by a statement in writing signed by the city manager. Waiver of
any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision
subsequent to such instance nor be deemed a waiver of any other provision of
the permit unless the statement so recites. (Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
5-8-30: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, age, disability, gender or sexual preference.
Grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations, relating to nondiscrimination.
   B.   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state and local regulations.
   C.   Neither grantee, nor any person, agency, or entity shall, without the
subscriber's consent, tap or arrange for the tapping, of any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection of unauthorized service, polling
with audience participating, or audience viewing surveys to support advertising
research regarding viewers where individual viewing behavior cannot be
identified.
   D.   In the conduct of providing its services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or general citizen's
right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights are delineated or defined by applicable law. Grantee shall not, without
lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority, utilize the
system's interactive two-way equipment or capability for unauthorized personal
surveillance of any subscriber or general citizen.
   E.   No cable line, wire amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed. Where a property owner or his
predecessor has granted an easement including a public utility easement or a
servitude to another and the servitude by its terms contemplates a use such as
grantee's intended use, grantee shall not be required to obtain the written
permission of the owner for the installation of cable television equipment.
(Ord. 6007, 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 9
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Grant Of Franchise
5-9-3: Franchise Assignment, Sale Or Lease
5-9-4: Use And Repair Of The Public Ways
5-9-5: Regulation Of Service
5-9-6: Depth Of Pipeline
5-9-7: Duty To Move Or Alter Lines
5-9-8: Indemnification Of Grantor
5-9-9: Grantee's Rules And Regulations
5-9-10: Inspection Of Records
5-9-11: Consideration For Franchise; Franchise Fee
5-9-12: Option To Purchase
5-9-13: Conditions Of Franchise
5-9-14: Invalidity
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
CALCULATED VALUE: The total transport gas in Decatherms (Dth) delivered to a
transport gas consumer for a billing period times the settlement price to
arrive at the value of the transport gas transported by grantee for that
transport gas consumer.
CITY: The city of Ponca City.
CONSUMER: Any individual person, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
unincorporated association, trust, municipality, or public or private entity
located within the corporate limits of the city of Ponca City and served by the
grantee through any use of the public ways.
DECATHERM OR Dth: A measurement of natural gas equal to one million (1,000,000)
British thermal units ("Btu"), or one MMBtu, on a dry basis. Btu shall be
computed on a temperature base of sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) and a
pressure base of 14.73 psia.
DISTRIBUTED OR DISTRIBUTION: All sales, distribution, or transportation of
natural gas to any consumer or user located within the corporate limits of the
city of Ponca City by the grantee or by others through grantee's distribution
system.
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: A system of works, pipes, pipelines, apparatus, machinery,
structures, appliances and appurtenances as are reasonably necessary for the
transportation, distribution or sale of gas to consumers.
DOWNSTREAM UNBUNDLING: The unbundling or separation of the grantee's natural
gas supply and distribution services to the residential and small commercial
consumer level, as authorized by the Oklahoma corporation commission, such that
persons other than grantee are selling gas to said consumers, with such natural
gas distributed by grantee through its distribution system.
FRANCHISE: The rights and privileges granted by grantor to grantee under
subsection 5-9-2A of this chapter.
GRANTEE: Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, a division of ONEOK, Inc., a
corporation, its successors and assigns.
GRANTOR: The city of Ponca City, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation, hereinafter
also referred to as "city".
GROSS RECEIPTS: Any and all compensation derived by grantee from the
distribution of natural gas to a consumer for any use, including domestic,
industrial and commercial purposes, and shall include, without limitation,
revenues from any operation or use of any or all of the distribution system by
grantee or others including, but not limited to, all fees or rentals received
by grantee for the lease or use of pipeline capacity within the corporate
limits of the city. Gross receipts shall not include revenues received by
grantee from consumers as franchise fee reimbursement.
INSTALL, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN: To acquire, erect, construct, install, extend,
repair, remove, relocate, replace, or otherwise operate and maintain.
LICENSE: The right and privilege to have one's own natural gas transported by a
franchisee through the public ways of the city.
PUBLIC WAYS: Any street, alley, avenue, boulevard, lane, park, parkway,
sidewalk, driveway, public right of way, and any other public ways, places,
areas, or grounds within the corporate limits of the city as now constituted or
as may be added or extended hereafter.
SETTLEMENT PRICE: The inside FERC first of month price for natural gas as
published for the month of delivery in the "Platts Inside FERC Gas Market
Report" publication, under the heading prices of spot gas delivered to
pipelines, ONEOK gas transportation, LLC-Oklahoma, or a successor publication
or index, or other viable index or exchange agreed on by grantor and grantee.
TRANSPORT GAS: All natural gas transported by grantee pursuant to a
transportation tariff or by other agreement, but not sold by grantee, through
grantee's distribution system to any consumer or user located within the
corporate limits of the city.
TRANSPORT GAS CONSUMER: A consumer which uses transport gas.
TRANSPORTATION TARIFF ARRANGEMENT: Any arrangement between grantee and a
consumer pursuant to which natural gas owned by any party other than the
grantee shall be transported, distributed or sold through any portion of
grantee's distribution system and under one of grantee's tariffs or special
contract for delivery to the consumer. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   The grantor hereby grants to grantee for the term of twenty five (25)
years from the passage and voter approval of the ordinance codified herein and
the filing of a written acceptance by the grantee, the right to enter upon the
public ways to install, operate and maintain a distribution system along,
across, over and under the public ways for the privilege of transporting,
distributing and/or selling gas to consumers and the public generally within
the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   This chapter shall have the effect of and shall be a contract between
grantor and grantee and shall be the measure of the rights and liabilities of
grantor as well as grantee.
   C.   The franchise granted by this chapter is not exclusive and nothing
herein shall be construed to divest the grantor of its control and regulation
of the public ways. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-3: FRANCHISE ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR LEASE:
   A.   Grantee shall not have the right to assign, sell, lease, or otherwise
transfer in any manner whatsoever to any third party not affiliated with
grantee the rights and privileges granted under this chapter except as
hereinafter provided. Any assignment, sale, lease, or other transfer by the
grantee of the franchise granted herein to any third party not affiliated with
grantee shall be ineffective and void unless:
      1.   The proposed assignment, sale, lease or transfer shall be in
writing;
      2.   The prospective assignee, buyer, lessee or other transferee shall
agree in writing to accept and become responsible for full performance of all
conditions, covenants, obligations, and liabilities contained in this chapter;
and
      3.   Such writing shall be submitted to the city clerk of the city.
This subsection A shall not apply to any lease or other arrangement which is in
compliance with the provisions of subsection B of this section.
   B.   Beginning ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof, neither
grantee nor any other person shall enter into or continue to use any part of
the public ways pursuant to any transportation tariff arrangement except as
follows:
      1.   The person who is or would be a transport gas consumer holds a valid
license from the city and timely pays the fees established in subsection 5-9-
11A2 of this chapter;
      2.   The city manager or his designee shall issue such a license to a
transport gas consumer upon the consumer completing an application therefor and
agreeing to abide by the terms of this chapter and to the audit of its books to
verify correct payment of the fee. Grantee shall identify each consumer of such
gas and report to grantor on a monthly basis all volumes transported,
distributed or sold through grantee's distribution system for delivery to such
persons; and
      3.   Said license shall be revocable by the city manager upon ten (10)
days' written notice to licensee, with the city manager authorized to adopt
rules providing for due process and appeal from his/her decision.
   C.   In the event of downstream unbundling, grantor may in its discretion,
by duly authorized ordinance or other official action, require the seller of
the natural gas or the consumer of the natural gas to obtain a license
permitting the gas to be transported through grantee's distribution system and/
or require compensation to be paid to grantor by such persons for use of the
public ways, whether based upon the value of the gas or other calculable
amount. Should such ordinance or other official action authorize and/or direct
grantee to collect such compensation on behalf of grantor, grantee agrees to
collect such sums and submit such payments to grantor and to take such other
action as may be required. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-4: USE AND REPAIR OF THE PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Grantee's distribution system shall be erected, placed, laid or
otherwise installed, operated and maintained in such a manner as will,
consistent with reasonable necessity, least interfere with other public uses of
the public ways.
   B.   Before grantee shall excavate or disturb the surface of any public way,
except in the case of emergency, at least forty eight (48) hours' notice shall
be given to the city engineer or other proper authority designated in writing
by the grantor. After such excavation or disturbance the grantee shall, with
due diligence and dispatch, place the public ways in a condition in compliance
with the grantor's reasonable standards and specifications.
   C.   Upon grantee's failure to commence or complete any construction,
maintenance or restoration work required by this chapter with due diligence and
dispatch, the grantor may cause such work to be done after written notice to
grantee, given so as to afford grantee an opportunity to commence and complete
such work within a reasonable time. The cost of such construction, maintenance
or restoration incurred by grantor upon grantee's failure shall then be charged
and collected from the grantee.
   D.   Grantor reserves the right to make and enforce reasonable regulations
concerning the construction of grantee's distribution system located along,
across, over, or under the public ways and to reasonably designate where the
distribution system's works and pipelines shall be placed, so long as such
regulations are not in conflict with the laws of the state of Oklahoma or the
orders, rules or regulations of the Oklahoma corporation commission or other
regulatory authority having jurisdiction. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-5: REGULATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   The distribution system of the grantee shall at all times be installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with accepted good practice and in such
condition as will enable the grantee to furnish adequate and continuous service
as required by the orders, rules and regulations of the corporation commission
of Oklahoma or other regulatory authority having jurisdiction. The requirements
set forth in this section shall not relieve grantee of any other obligations
set forth herein.
   B.   In the event that the corporation commission of Oklahoma or other state
regulatory authority should be deprived of the authority to regulate grantee,
then grantor shall have the authority to set rates, terms and conditions of
service for transportation, distribution or sale of natural gas by grantee
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-6: DEPTH OF PIPELINE:
After the operative date of this franchise, grantee's main or lateral lines
installed or replaced in public ways shall be installed or replaced at depths
which comply with all applicable state and federal rules and regulations
establishing minimum safety standards for the design, construction, maintenance
and operation of pipelines. Depth shall be measured from the lower of existing
grade or proposed future grade as set forth on plans or other specifications
existing at the time such lines are installed or replaced. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-
2007)
5-9-7: DUTY TO MOVE OR ALTER LINES:
   A.   Grantor reserves the right to lay or permit to be laid cables, electric
conduits, water, sewer, gas or other pipelines and to do or permit to be done
any underground work deemed necessary and proper by the grantor, along, across,
over or under the public ways. In permitting such work to be done, the grantor
shall not be liable to the grantee for any damages so occasioned nor shall the
grantor in doing such work be liable to the grantee for any damages not
wilfully and unnecessarily occasioned.
   B.   Whenever by reason of establishing a grade or changes in the grade of
any street or in the location or manner of construction of any public way,
cables, electric conduits, water, sewer, gas or other underground structures,
it shall be deemed necessary by the grantor to alter, change, adapt or conform
any portion of grantee's distribution system located in the public ways, such
alterations or changes shall be made within a reasonable time by the grantee,
as ordered in writing by the grantor, without claim for reimbursement or
compensation for damages against grantor; provided, however, that this section
is not intended to require grantee to alter, change, adapt or conform any
portion of its distribution system without reimbursement or compensation where
the right to locate same, whether by private right of way, utility easement or
otherwise, was acquired prior to its location in the public way.
   C.   If grantor shall require the grantee to adapt or conform its
distribution system, or in any way to alter, relocate or change its property to
enable any other person, firm, corporation or entity (whether public or
private), other than the grantor, to use the public ways, the grantee shall be
reimbursed by the person, firm, corporation or entity desiring or occasioning
such change for any and all loss, cost or expense occasioned thereby.
   D.   "Person", "firm", "corporation", and "entity" as used in subsection C
of this section shall not include regular departments of the grantor, or any
trust or authority formed by or for the benefit of grantor for public utility
purposes, but shall include any other agency or authority of the city, whether
acting in a governmental or nongovernmental capacity, including, but not
limited to, any urban renewal authority, or any other agency or authority,
which as a part of its program clears whole tracts of land within the city
limits and relocates citizens for the purpose of urban development or similar
aims. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-8: INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR:
The grantee shall indemnify, become responsible for and forever save harmless
the grantor from any and all damages, judgments, reasonable costs and expenses,
including attorney fees, which the grantor may suffer or incur, or which may be
legally obtained against the grantor, for or by reason of the negligent use,
repair or occupation of any public way within the corporate limits of the city
by the grantee pursuant to the terms of this chapter or resulting from the
negligent exercise of the grantee of any of its privileges or by reason of its
carrying on its business in the city; provided, however, that in the event of
such claim or claims being prosecuted against the grantor, the grantee shall
have the right to defend against the same, and to settle or discharge same in
such manner as it may see fit, and the grantor shall give prompt written notice
to the grantee of the presentation or prosecution of such claims. (Ord. 6053,
5-9-2007)
5-9-9: GRANTEE'S RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The grantee shall have the right to make and enforce such reasonable rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the extension of its facilities, the
sale of its gas and the prudent conduct of its business, provided that such
rules and regulations shall neither be in conflict with the laws of the state
of Oklahoma, with the orders, rules or regulations of the corporation
commission of Oklahoma or other regulatory authority having jurisdiction, nor
with the ordinances and regulations of the grantor insofar as they are
consistent with the jurisdiction of the corporation commission of Oklahoma or
such other regulatory authority. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-10: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
Grantee shall permit grantor or its agents to inspect, during regular business
hours, the books, papers and records kept by grantee in the ordinary course of
business and pertaining to the natural gas business carried on by it in the
city, such as plats, maps and atlases identifying grantee's pipelines in the
city, and the books and records necessary to verify the franchise fee payment
provided for in section
5-9-11 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the obligation herein, grantee shall
have the right to request the reasonable protection of proprietary information
and to provide redacted documents or require grantor or its agents to enter
into such agreements pertaining to confidentiality as may reasonably protect
the proprietary information of grantee but which do not unreasonably frustrate
the purposes of this section. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-11: CONSIDERATION FOR FRANCHISE; FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   In consideration of and as compensation for the franchise hereby
granted to grantee by grantor, the following fees are hereby imposed:
      1.   Grantee shall monthly pay grantor a sum equal to three percent (3%)
of the gross receipts received by grantee, per billing period, from the
distribution of natural gas to consumers within the corporate limits of the
city, but excluding the calculated value of transport gas, contingent on the
passage of an amendment to section 84 of the city charter to remove the
provision thereof establishing a minimum franchise fee of four percent (4%).
Absent approval of the charter amendment to section 84 of the city charter, the
fee charged under this subsection shall be four percent (4%).
      2.   Except as set forth below, licensed transport gas consumers taking
receipt of natural gas within the corporate limits of Ponca City shall monthly
pay a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the then current calculated value of
transport gas transported or distributed to the transport gas consumer during
the corresponding billing period. Grantee agrees to act as agent for grantor to
collect such sums for grantor. The sums in subsection A1 of this section and
this subsection A2 shall be adjusted for uncollectible receivables and for
uncollectible receivables which are later collected.
         a.   The city manager or his designee may waive the fee or any part
thereof due from a transport gas consumer on the calculated value of transport
gas, but such waiver shall only be granted if:
            (1)   The transport gas consumer could otherwise obtain its energy
needs from another source that would not be subject to the fees imposed in this
subsection A2 and sufficient evidence is produced by consumer so as to
substantiate such alternative source; and
            (2)   Such alternative source, including all other fees, would be
less than the cost of utilizing grantee to furnish and transport the gas or
transport alone, as the case may be.
         b.   Federal and state agencies, including state school districts,
that are transport gas consumers shall be exempt from the license requirements
of subsection 5-9-3B of this chapter and from the fee imposed under this
subsection A2 on the value of transport gas. Grantor and grantee shall
collaborate as necessary to identify the exempt federal and state agencies.
   B.   Payments under this section shall be payable monthly on or before the
twenty fifth day of the month following the month to which such accounting
shall apply. Grantor shall notify grantee in writing of areas newly annexed
into, or deannexed from, the corporate limits of the city of Ponca City, and
grantee shall update its records for the purpose of franchise fee payments as
soon as reasonably practicable after receiving such notice.
   C.   In the event the accounting rendered to grantor by grantee is found to
be incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount, it being
agreed that grantor may accept any amount offered by grantee, but the
acceptance thereof by grantor shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if
the amount is in dispute or later found to be incorrect. Grantee shall have no
obligation, however, to make payment upon transport gas for which grantee has
not been paid. Grantee shall provide notice to grantor of such delinquent
accounts within ninety (90) days and grantor shall hold grantee harmless from
the cost or liability for the collection of franchise fees on such delinquent
accounts. Grantee agrees that such of its books, records, and documents as may
be reasonably necessary for an effective compliance review of this chapter
shall at all reasonable times be opened to the inspection and examination of
the officers of grantor and its duly authorized agents, auditor, and employees
for the purpose of verifying said accounting. Notwithstanding the obligation
herein, grantee shall have the right to request the reasonable protection of
proprietary information and to provide redacted documents or require grantor or
its agents to enter into such agreements pertaining to confidentiality as may
reasonably protect the proprietary information of grantee but which do not
unreasonably frustrate the purposes of this subsection.
   D.   Grantor agrees that the franchise fee percentage rate set forth in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section shall in no event exceed the percentage
rate hereafter approved to calculate any fee paid to grantor by any other
person or entity for use of the public ways if such fee or volumetric rate is
based in any way on the amount of revenues or gross receipts from the
transportation, distribution, or sale of natural gas or electric energy,
excluding any municipally owned electric utility, by such other person or
entity to ultimate consumers within the city. If at any time after the
effective date hereof the fee or rate required to be paid by another is less
than the percentage rate set forth in subsection A1 or A2 of this section, then
the percentage rate set forth in subsection A1 or A2 of this section shall be
reduced to equal such lesser percentage rate on the date such lesser percentage
rate becomes effective and without any further action by the city or the
qualified electors residing therein. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-12: OPTION TO PURCHASE:
Grantor is granted, pursuant to the option and express requirements of section
88 of the city charter, the option to purchase the distribution system then
owned by grantee, its successors and assigns, together with all equipment
functionally related thereto and being used to provide service under the
exercise of this franchise, or acquired for such purpose, and situated within
the incorporated limits of grantor (collectively "ONG property"). The option
may only be exercised after fifteen (15) years from the effective date of this
franchise and upon the following terms and following manner:
   A.   Not less than twelve (12) months prior to the expiration date of this
franchise, grantor may determine its intention to purchase all of the ONG
property located within the city limits of grantor. The board of commissioners
of grantor shall within ten (10) days furnish to the corporate secretary of
grantee, as notice of such intention to purchase, a certified copy of such
official action; and thereafter the board of commissioners of grantor shall,
within fifteen (15) days, contract for, engage, hire, appoint and designate as
an appraiser ("city appraiser") an engineer of well known experience and
ability who shall not be a resident or taxpayer of grantor nor directly or
indirectly interested, as a shareholder, director, employee, contractor or
otherwise, in grantee or any entity involved, or to become involved, in the
analysis, management, or operation of gas facilities in Ponca City, within
twelve (12) months prior to such appointment and at the time thereof; and
grantor shall within ten (10) days after such appointment and designation
notify grantee by furnishing to its corporate secretary a certified copy of the
ordinance or resolution appointing such appraiser; and grantee shall within
fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such certified copy appoint and
designate as an appraiser ("ONG appraiser") an engineer of like qualifications
and within ten (10) days after such appointment furnish to the city manager of
grantor written notification of the appointment of such appraiser. The city
appraiser and the ONG appraiser shall select as a third appraiser an engineer
of like qualifications.
   B.   If the city and ONG appraisers shall, for more than fifteen (15) days,
fail to agree upon the appointment of the third appraiser, or if either grantor
or grantee shall fail or neglect to select its appraiser as herein required,
then the district court of Kay County, state of Oklahoma, shall have the power
upon application of either grantor or grantee, as the case may be, and pursuant
to the provisions of the Oklahoma uniform arbitration act, 15 Oklahoma
Statutes, 2001, section 801 et seq., to appoint such required appraiser or
appraisers of like qualifications. The parties specifically contract and agree
that venue shall lie in Kay County for any dispute that might arise under this
arbitration provision shall be governed by the uniform arbitration act, as the
same may from time to time be amended.
   C.   The three (3) appraisers shall thereupon proceed to determine the fair
market value of all of the ONG property by such criteria as is provided by law.
The three (3) appraisers shall make their return of the appraised value
("return") of all of the ONG property to grantor and grantee and file the
return with the city clerk of grantor within ninety (90) days after the due
appointment of the third appraiser, and the valuation so fixed by a majority of
the appraisers on the return shall be binding and conclusive upon the grantor
and grantee as to the purchase price of all of the ONG property.
   D.   After the final determination of the fair market value of the
properties and property rights and the return filed as contemplated herein, an
election shall be held on the first election date legally available to
determine whether the exercise of this option shall be approved by the majority
of the registered, qualified electors of the city of Ponca City voting thereon.
Such approval must occur before such option shall be exercised by the payment
of the purchase price. If the acquisition of all of the ONG property at the
purchase price fixed by the return is not approved by a majority of the
registered, qualified electors of grantor voting thereon, the notice of
intention to purchase all of the ONG property by grantor shall be deemed null
and void.
   E.   Upon approval of the exercise of this option by a majority of the
registered, qualified electors, the parties shall forthwith file for, and make
a good faith effort to obtain, any required approval ("regulatory approval") of
the proposed purchase of the ONG property from any federal or state regulatory
authority having jurisdiction over grantee or the ONG property being acquired.
If regulatory approval cannot be obtained, this option to purchase the ONG
property by grantor shall be deemed null and void.
   F.   The "closing date" scheduled for grantor's purchase of all of the ONG
property shall be within one hundred twenty (120) days following entry of a
final nonappealable order finding that regulatory approval for grantee to sell
to grantor is granted or that no regulatory approval is required. If, between
the date of the return and the closing date, any reasonable and necessary
additions, betterments or replacements shall have been made by grantee, grantor
shall pay, in addition to the purchase price fixed by the return, as provided
in this section, the actual cost of such additions, betterments, and
replacements. If such additions, betterments or replacements are made, grantee
shall file with the city clerk of grantor complete information as to the actual
cost thereof to grantee, not later than ten (10) business days prior to the
closing date scheduled for grantor's purchase of all of the ONG property.
   G.   Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, the three (3)
appraisers shall not include within the return any values for gas facilities of
grantee within grantor's incorporated limits where the same are used
exclusively for the provision of gas service to areas without such incorporated
limits, such facilities shall not be part of the ONG property which may be
purchased by grantor pursuant to its option as set forth herein, and if the
purchase by grantor is completed in the manner provided herein, grantee shall
have the right thereafter to own, operate and dispose of such gas facilities as
its private property in such manner as it may see fit.
   H.   Time is of the essence to grantor's exercise of its purchase option
privilege under this section. If grantor shall fail to complete its purchase of
all of the ONG property by payment to grantee of the purchase price fixed by
the return in cash at the closing date, then and in any such event grantor's
option to purchase all of the ONG property shall thereupon expire and become
null and void.
   I.   For the purpose of determining the valuation of the ONG property, all
the books, records and other information in possession of grantee pertaining
thereto shall be open and available to the three (3) appraisers during the time
their appraisal is being made for the purpose of aiding the appraisers in
fixing the purchase price to be paid therefor.
   J.   Each party shall pay its own appraiser's fees and expenses and the
parties agree that fees and expenses of the third appraiser shall be divided
and paid in equal amounts by grantor and grantee. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-13: CONDITIONS OF FRANCHISE:
This contract, franchise, grant and privilege is granted and accepted under and
subject to all applicable laws and under and subject to all of the orders,
rules, and regulations now or hereafter adopted by governmental bodies now or
hereafter having jurisdiction. (Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
5-9-14: INVALIDITY:
If any clause, sentence, or section of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid, it shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter. Further,
should any governmental body now or hereafter having jurisdiction determine
that grantee shall not be permitted to collect in whole or in part the
compensation due grantor by others for transport gas as set forth in
subsections 5-9-3B2 and 5-9-11A2 of this chapter, grantee shall thereafter have
no obligation to make such payment to grantor and subsections 5-9-3B2 and 5-9-
11A2 of this chapter shall be of no force and effect. Grantor shall have the
right and option, within sixty (60) days of the occurrence of such event, to
terminate this chapter upon resolution duly adopted by its legislative body.
(Ord. 6053, 5-9-2007)
CHAPTER 10
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definitions
5-10-2: Annual License Required
5-10-3: License Requirements
5-10-4: Location Rules And Regulations
5-10-5: Operational Rules And Regulations
5-10-6: Publicly Owned Lands And Rights Of Way
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
        A fixed location within the City that is zoned accordingly to permit one or more
MOBILE  mobile food vendors to engage in the business of preparing and offering for
FOOD    sale, food items for human consumption. This definition shall exclude persons
COURT:  selling produce, grains, vegetables, fruits or nuts of their own production in a
        farmer’s market.
        Any person who engages in the business of preparing and offering for sale,
        usually in an outdoor setting, food items for human consumption from a motorized
MOBILE  vehicle, trailer, cart or stand from other than a fixed location within the
FOOD    City. The definition shall exclude outdoor sellers, peddlers or solicitors, who
VENDOR: shall remain regulated under Title 5, Chapter 4 of this Code. The definition
        shall also exclude persons selling produce, grains, vegetables, fruits or nuts
        of their own production at a farmer’s market. (6309, 5-23-2022)
 
5-10-2: ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or business shall operate as a mobile food vendor within the City
without first obtaining a license from the City Clerk. The license shall be
valid for a period of one year from issuance and shall be renewable every year
thereafter. There shall be a fee established by the City for the annual permit
to cover expenses associated with the preparation and issuance of the permit,
and any inspections for compliance with this chapter.
The City Commission hereby authorizes the City Manager or his designee to waive
the annual license fee for a mobile food vendor whose intent is to participate
in a one-time special event, parade or assembly during the calendar year.
However, the provisions contained in
5-10-3 A.4. and 5. shall still apply. Any person who otherwise engages in the
business of a mobile food vendor without a valid license issued by the City
shall be guilty of an offense. (6309, 5-23-2022)
5-10-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person or business shall operate as a mobile food vendor within the
City without first providing the following information and documents to the
City Clerk.
      1.   Description of the type of food, beverage, or merchandise to be
sold.
      2.   The location(s) where the applicant wishes to do business.
      3.   A written document(s) verifying approval of the property owner for
the subject location(s) thereon.
      4.   A copy of a license from the kay county health department confirming
compliance with the State of Oklahoma food service establishment regulations.
      5.   Verification that the applicant is a vendor registered with the
Oklahoma Tax Commission for the payment of sales tax, or other proof that sales
tax has been or is being paid on the merchandise sold or to be sold.
   B.   If the applicant wishes to locate and operate on public property, as
further described in Chapter
5-10-6, the following additional documents are required.
      1.   Proof of financial responsibility as evidenced by a certificate of
insurance issued by a carrier authorized to do business in the State of
Oklahoma certifying that there is in effect a policy of liability insurance
coverage with the following minimum coverages: one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for the injury or death of any one (1) person, three hundred
thousand ($300,000.00) for the injury or death of any number of persons in one
(1) accident, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage in
any one (1) accident. The insurance coverage shall protect the licensee and the
City from and against all claims arising from operations under or in connection
with the license. Such insurance shall name the City of Ponca City as an
additional insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be
canceled prior to the expiration date of the license. Failure to maintain
insurance coverage as set forth herein shall automatically void any approved
city license to operate said service, and
      2.   An agreement signed by the applicant indemnifying and holding the
City harmless of all actions which may result from the location and operation
of the mobile food vendor business on City-owned property. (6309, 5-23-2022)
5-10-4: LOCATION RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person operating a mobile food vendor business shall comply with
the location rules and regulations as set out below. No mobile food vendor
shall operate:
      1.   On a tract or parcel of land that is zoned other than commercial or
industrial, except in conjunction with a special event authorized and permitted
by the city.
      2.   Within three hundred (300) feet of the grounds of any elementary or
secondary school between one (1) hour prior to the start of the school day and
one (1) hour after dismissal at the end of the school day.
      3.   Within two hundred (200) feet of any public park or playground
unless the city states in writing that it has no objection to the placement of
such business.
      4.   Within three hundred (300) feet of any church while church is in
session.
      5.   Within ten (10) feet of an entranceway to any building.
      6.   Within fifty (50) feet of any driveway entrance to a police or fire
station, or within ten (10) feet of any other driveway.
      7.   Within ten (10) feet of the crosswalk at any intersection.
      8.   Within ten (10) feet of any fire hydrant or FDC sprinkler intake.
      9.   From a location directly abutting or within one-hundred (100) feet
of a business which specializes in a food or drink item that the mobile food
vendor offers for sale, unless the applicant has written consent from the
proprietor of the business. (6309, 5-23-2022)
5-10-5: OPERATIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person operating a mobile food vendor business shall comply with
the operational rules and regulations as set out below. No mobile food vendor
shall:
      1.   Operate a mobile food vehicle, trailer, cart, or stand in violation
of the 2018 or latest Edition of the ICC codes.
      2.   Leave any motor vehicle, trailer or cart unattended.
      3.   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption unless he has
available for public use his own or a public litter receptacle which is
available for his patrons’ use.
      4.   Leave any location without first picking up, removing, and disposing
of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by him.
      5.   Allow any items relating to the operation of the business to be
placed anywhere other than in, on or under the stand or motor vehicle. No such
items shall be stored or placed upon any public space adjacent to the business.
      6.   Set up, maintain, or permit the use of any table, crate, carton,
rack, or any other device to increase the selling of display capacity of his
stand or motor vehicle, where such items have not been described in his
application.
      7.   Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles.
      8.   Sell anything other than that which he is licensed to vend.
      9.   Conduct his business in such a way as would restrict or interfere
with the ingress or egress of the abutting property owner or tenant, or create
or become a public nuisance, increase traffic congestion or delay, or
constitute a hazard to traffic, life or property, or an obstruction to adequate
access to fire, police or sanitation vehicles.
      10.   Stop, stand or park his vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
selling, or sell on any street under any circumstances during hours when
parking, stopping or standing has been prohibited by signs or curb markings or
is prohibited by statute or ordinance.
      11.   Operate between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at any
location.
      12.   Remain at any single location or address for more than 12 hours in
any 24-hour period. (6309, 5-23-2022)
5-10-6: PUBLICLY OWNED LANDS AND RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Operating on publicly owned land or a public park. No mobile food
vendor shall be permitted to operate on public property or any public park,
including the waters of Lake Ponca, without the prior approval of the City
Manager or his/her designee, including but not limited to, the Director of
Parks and Recreation. A permit may be required in conjunction with assemblies,
parades, special events that will occupy trails, playgrounds and other spaces
normally utilized by park users.
   B.   Operating within rights of way. No mobile food vendor shall be
permitted to operate on any public streets, sidewalks, and other rights of way
without prior approval of the City Manager or his/her designee, including, but
not limited to, the Chief of Police. A permit may be required in conjunction
with assemblies, parades, special events and processions that may block and
other wise occupy space within public rights of way. (6309, 5-23-2022)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Illustrative Enumeration
6-1-3: Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited
6-1-4: Procedures Cumulative
6-1-5: Person Responsible
6-1-6: Lapse Of Time; Illegality
6-1-7: Remedies
6-1-8: Prosecution On Complaint Before The Municipal Court
6-1-9: Notice To Property Owner, Abatement, Appeals, Lien
6-1-10: Abatement Procedure; Lien For Costs
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 35, 131 and 135 of the city charter.
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any thing
or condition, which either:
   A.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal, or basin, or
any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not defined as a public nuisance.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal. (1980 Code §
21-1)
6-1-2: ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION:
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   A.   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation.
   B.   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things.
   C.   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other
vermin.
   D.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   E.   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises.
   F.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   G.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   H.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances.
   I.   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   J.   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   K.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
   L.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially and unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others.
   M.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance.
   N.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
   O.   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety.
   P.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate, as required by law for vehicles used
on the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district.
   Q.   "Weeds" including, but not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or
poison sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of said weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased. (1980 Code § 21-2)
The term "weeds" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for agricultural
use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a parcel
zoned for other than agricultural use. (1980 Code § 21-2; amd. 2003 Code)
   R.   Abandoned, unsafe and dilapidated signs as defined in section
11-12-3 of this code.
   S.   Any violation of section
11-5-1 (Accessory Structures and Uses) of this code. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014;
amd. Ord. 6288, 3-22-2021)
6-1-3: MAINTAINING NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance. (1980 Code § 21-3)
6-1-4: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative one to the other; and
the city may elect to follow any such procedure which is applicable in abating
any particular nuisance. (1980 Code § 21-4)
6-1-5: PERSON RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1980 Code § 21-5)
6-1-6: LAPSE OF TIME; ILLEGALITY:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1980 Code § 21-6)
6-1-7: REMEDIES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court.
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court.
      3.   Civil action.
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12.
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1980 Code § 21-
7)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action.
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15.
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1980 Code § 21-
8)
6-1-8: PROSECUTION ON COMPLAINT BEFORE THE MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.   Authorization to Issue Citations: The City Manager, or his/her agents,
is hereby authorized to issue a citation to any person for violation of this
Chapter.
      1.   Any authorized agent of the City who meets the minimum requirements
set forth in 11 O.S., Section 111.1, shall be authorized to issue a Citation.
   B.   Notification Process: Citations may be issued in person or by
Certificate of Mailing.
   C.   Required Evidence: A Citation issued by Certificate of Mailing shall be
accompanied by a photo(s) which shall be prima facie evidence that a violation
of this Chapter existed on the date the photograph was taken. (Ord. 6288, 3-22-
2021)
6-1-9: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER, ABATEMENT, APPEALS, LIEN:
   A.   The city hereby adopts 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-111 and any
amendments thereof as the operative law and procedure by which it defines,
notifies property owners, abates, hears appeals and recovers its costs of
abatement for public nuisances arising from weeds and grass.
   B.   The city hereby adopts 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112 and any
amendments thereof as the operative law and procedure by which it defines,
notifies property owners, abates, hears appeals and recovers its costs of
abatement for public nuisances arising from dilapidated buildings.
   C.   The city hereby designates the development services director, or in his
absence the building inspector, as the hearing officer for initial appeals from
nuisance determinations. Appeals may be taken from the findings of the hearing
officer to the board of commissioners if notice is given pursuant to the
requirements of 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 22-111 and 22-112. (Ord. 6102, 7-
13-2009; amd. Ord. 6288, 3-22-2021)
6-1-10: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; LIEN FOR COSTS:
   A.   Abatement By City: Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to
abate a nuisance was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate
the same, the building official or other duly designated officer of the city
shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs
stated in the abatement thereof. (1980 Code § 21-12; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   City's Costs Declared Lien: Any and all costs incurred by the city in
the abatement of a nuisance under the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a lien against the property upon which such nuisance existed; such
lien shall be filed, proven and collected as provided for by law. Such lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording, and shall bear
interest at the legal rate thereafter until satisfied. (1980 Code § 21-13)
   C.   Abatement By Suit In District Court: In cases where it is deemed
impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city may bring suit upon the
district court as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (1980 Code § 21-
14; amd. Ord. 6288, 3-22-2021)
CHAPTER 2
WEED CONTROL 1
(Rep. by Ord. 6102, 7-13-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1-8 of this title.
CHAPTER 2A
VEGETATION
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Property Owner Maintenance Responsibility And Duty To Public
6-2A-2: Vegetation Obstructing Public Ways
6-2A-3: Removal Of Dead Or Decayed Trees And Shrubs
6-2A-4: Obstructions On Private Property Affecting Roadway Sight Angle
6-2A-5: Performance Of Work By City
6-2A-6: Notice; How Given
6-2A-7: Appeal Of Determination By Code Enforcement Officer
6-2A-8: Failure To Abate; Offense
6-2A-9: Private Trees Overhanging Private Property
6-2A-1: PROPERTY OWNER MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY AND DUTY TO PUBLIC:
   A.   The owner or person in possession of a lot fronting on or adjacent to
any portion of a street or alley shall maintain any trees, shrubs, hedges,
fences or other landscaping along said street or alley or within the street
right of way adjacent to his or her property in such nondangerous condition
that the trees, shrubs, hedges, fences or other landscaping will not interfere
with the public convenience or safety in the use of the streets, trails, paths,
sidewalks and parking lots.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, maintenance of trees, shrubs, hedges and
other landscaping includes, but is not limited to: clearance and structural
trimming, and removal of low branches, dead branches, decayed branches, broken
branches, leaves and other debris.
   C.   Property owners or persons in possession required by this chapter to
maintain trees, shrubs, hedges, fences and other landscaping shall owe a duty
to members of the public using public streets, trails, paths, sidewalks and
parking lots to maintain such trees, shrubs, hedges, fences or other
landscaping in a safe and nondangerous condition.
   D.   If any property owner or person in possession fails to maintain any
adjacent trees, shrubs, hedges, fences or other landscaping in a nondangerous
condition as required by this chapter, and any person suffers damage or injury
to person or property, the property owner or person in possession shall be
liable for all damages or injuries proximately caused by the failure of the
owner or person in possession to maintain these areas.
   E.   Any such conditions above established are hereby determined to be
public nuisances. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-2: VEGETATION OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
The owner of every lot or parcel of land upon which any trees, shrubs, or
plants are growing adjacent to any street, sidewalk, trail, alley or public
parking area shall trim the same or cause the same to be trimmed, whenever it
grows upon the property of the owner or in any lot or parcel of land lying
between the owner's property line and the pavement, traveled roadway or alley,
so that the vegetation shall not obstruct the passage of light from any public
light located in any street, alley, or public highway, to the adjacent street,
path and sidewalk, and so that the vegetation shall not obstruct the free and
convenient travel over and along the sidewalk, path, street or alley and the
owner shall keep removed from the vegetation all dead, decayed or broken
branches that overhang any such area, and remove any dead trees. For sidewalks,
vegetation shall be trimmed to provide clearance of at least eight feet (8')
above sidewalks and paths, and to at least fourteen feet (14') above roadways,
streets and alleys. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-3: REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DECAYED TREES AND SHRUBS:
The owner of every lot or parcel of land upon which any trees, shrubs, or
plants are growing adjacent to any street, sidewalk, trail, alley or public
parking area shall keep removed from such trees, shrubs or plants all dead,
decayed or broken branches that overhang any street, sidewalk, trail, alley or
public parking area and when any such trees, shrubs or plants are dead such
owner or occupant shall remove the same. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-4: OBSTRUCTIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY AFFECTING ROADWAY SIGHT ANGLE:
   A.   No owner or person in possession of any premises on any corner or
interior lot abutting upon a street shall permit the existence of any hedge,
shrub, tree, landscaping, mound of earth, fence or boulders greater than thirty
inches (30") in height from the adjacent street level or limb of a tree less
than eighty four inches (84") in height from the adjacent street level between
the setback lines of such lot and the street excluding planting easements,
which is determined by the code enforcement officer to obscure and impair the
view of intersecting or entering traffic from a street, alley, driveway, or
exitway of passing motorists or pedestrians or which impairs the view of street
signs, traffic signs, or any other traffic control devices or signs placed upon
the streets for the safety and convenience of the public.
   B.   Any obstruction interfering with the view of intersecting traffic at
intersections of public ways shall be presumed to be in violation of subsection
A of this section if such obstruction exists within the sight distances set
forth on the following chart for level grade intersections:
   INTERSECTION SIGHT DISTANCE1
                   Legs Of Sight    Left Turn From Stop Right Turn Or Straight
Design Speed (mph) Triangle At Open Sign                Crossing From Stop Sign
                   Intersection
              Legs Of Sight    Left Turn From Stop Sign Right Turn Or Straight
Design Speed  Triangle At Open                          Crossing From Stop Sign
(mph)         Intersection     Entering Entering        Entering Entering
                               2 Lane   4 Lane          2 Lane   4 Lane
20            90               225      235             195      210
25            115              280      295             240      260
30            140              335      355             290      310
35            165              390      415             335      360
40            195              445      470             385      415
45            220              500      530             430      465
50            245              555      590             480      515
55            285              610      650             525      565
60            325              665      705             575      620
 
Note:
      1.   Assumptions:
a.   Driver's eye is 14.4 feet back from edge of major road.
b.   Eye height is 3.5 feet above pavement.
c.   Top of object on major road equals 3.5 feet above pavement.
(Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-5: PERFORMANCE OF WORK BY CITY:
   A.   In the event that any condition declared to be a nuisance under this
chapter is not remedied within ten (10) days after notice, the city may abate
the nuisance, or cause the same to be abated through a contractor.
   B.   In the event the city abates the nuisance, the appropriate city
official shall keep a due and proper account of the cost of abating the
nuisance and shall, if the abatement be performed by city personnel, certify
the account to the city clerk, who, in turn, shall certify the account to the
city commission, and the city commission shall ascertain the cost of the
abatement. Whether abated by the city or through a contractor employed by the
city, the costs of abating the nuisance shall be assessed as a special tax
against the lot or parcel of land in connection with which the nuisance exists,
is growing or against the lot or parcel of land adjacent to which the
vegetation or other landscaping exists. If work to abate the nuisance is to be
performed through a contractor, the procedure provided in section
6-1-8 of this title shall be followed.
   C.   The cost of abatement shall be certified by the city clerk to the
county assessor to be placed upon the tax rolls for collection as other
assessments in similar cases made and provided. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-6: NOTICE; HOW GIVEN:
   A.   Written Notice: At least ten (10) days' written notice shall be given
to the owner and, if different than the owner, the resident of the property by
mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the county
treasurer's office before any remedial action may be taken by city. Such notice
may further be served as any other legal process may be served pursuant to law.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice to abate the nuisance issued under the
provisions of this chapter, shall contain:
      1.   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing through the
municipal court clerk within ten (10) days.
      2.   The location of the nuisance, a description of what constitutes the
nuisance and a statement of the acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      3.   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person and further that
the costs of abatement will become a lien against the property where the
nuisance exists.
      4.   An order that it be abated or removed within ten (10) days, unless a
longer time period is established by the code enforcement officer because of
the extent of the nuisance or difficulty in removing it would compel a
reasonable person to believe the same could not be accomplished by a normal
person, exercising due diligence, within ten (10) days. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-7: APPEAL OF DETERMINATION BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   Development Services Director Designated As Administrative Hearing
Officer: Any appeal of determinations made by a code enforcement officer under
this chapter shall be made to the development services director, or in his
absence the building inspector, who, for purposes of this chapter, is hereby
designated as the administrative hearing officer. (Ord. 6102, 7-13-2009)
   B.   Requesting A Hearing: Any person who believes themselves aggrieved by a
determination of a code enforcement officer under this chapter, may appeal such
determination by requesting a hearing of the matter before the administrative
hearing officer and payment of a filing fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00).
Such hearing shall be de novo, with the burden of proof upon the city to
establish its burden by clear and convincing evidence. In the event the
appellant is successful, the court, in its discretion, may order the filing fee
refunded the appellant. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004; amd. Ord. 6102, 7-13-2009)
   C.   Right To Appeal To Commission: The property owner or occupant shall
have the right of appeal to the board of commissioners from any order or
determination of the administrative hearing officer. Such appeal shall be taken
by filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk within five (5) days
after the administrative order is rendered. Once again the burden shall be upon
the city to establish its burden by clear and convincing evidence.
   D.   Risk Of Serious Injury: In the event a condition exists which creates
an imminent risk of serious injury to persons or property such that notice to
the owner or occupant and the time limitations imposed thereby are an
unacceptable risk, the city may immediately cause the condition to be abated.
In such instance the city shall keep a forced account of its efforts, shall
document the condition abated, shall notify the owner or occupant of the
abatement and inform them that they have thirty (30) days to pay the cost
thereof or may appeal the imposition of costs by requesting a hearing within
ten (10) days of the date of the notice. Such request shall be made to the
municipal court clerk who, upon payment of a filing fee of thirty five dollars
($35.00) by the appellant, shall docket the same for hearing before the
administrative hearing officer. If, upon hearing, the administrative hearing
officer shall determine either: 1) that the condition, although being in
violation of this chapter, was not an imminent threat, or 2) that the condition
did not violate any provision of this chapter, then the costs of abatement
shall not be charged to the owner or occupant and the filing fee shall be
refunded. If the administrative hearing officer shall determine that the
summary abatement was proper, or no appeal is timely taken after receipt of
notice of the abatement by the city, the owner or occupant shall have the
opportunity to pay the abatement costs and if the same are not paid within
thirty (30) days, the department performing the abatement shall certify the
account to the city commission, and the city commission shall ascertain the
cost of the abatement. Such amount shall then be forwarded to the county
consistent with the procedure provided by state law to be placed upon the
property as a lien. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-8: FAILURE TO ABATE; OFFENSE:
Any owner or occupant of such lot or parcel of land who shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim or remove any tree, shrubs, plants, fences, or landscaping as
required by this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and each and
every day that said owner shall fail, refuse or neglect to abate the nuisance
shall be a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
6-2A-9: PRIVATE TREES OVERHANGING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The owners of any tree on private property overhanging any other abutting
private property shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken
or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of persons or property
on abutting private property. If limbs from a tree or bush on private property
overhang or extend onto other private property in such a manner as to touch,
including intermittent touching, buildings, trees or bushes or other structures
or improvements, or interfere with the passage thereon or the reasonable
enjoyment thereof, it shall be the duty of the owner of the property on which
the tree or bush is located to keep said tree or bush trimmed so as to avoid
said touching, obstruction of passage or so that the enjoyment of the abutting
property is not interfered with. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND TRASH
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Functions Of Solid Waste Division
6-3-3: City Removal Authority; Contract
6-3-4: Unauthorized Collectors
6-3-5: Rental Agents Provide Refuse Service
6-3-6: Occupant And Owner Request Refuse Service
6-3-7: Garbage Container Requirements And Restrictions
6-3-8: Collection Of Garbage And Refuse
6-3-9: Residential And Business Collection Schedule
6-3-10: Rates And Charges
6-3-11: Transporting Garbage
6-3-12: Noncollectible Waste
6-3-13: Refuse Disposal At City Landfill
6-3-14: Littering; Burying
6-3-15: Depositing And Scattering
6-3-16: Collection Of Ashes
6-3-17: Cleanliness
6-3-18: Protection From Rats; Container Base
6-3-19: Littering Prohibited
6-3-20: Duty Of Owners Abutting Alley
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ASHES: Shall include all ashes of wood, coal and coke and the residue resulting
from the combustion of any material or substance, soot, cinders, slug or
charcoal.
BRUSH: Shall include trees, tree branches, shrubbery, trimmings from trees and
shrubbery, grass, leaves or any other plant material related to yard
maintenance.
BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT OR INSTITUTION: Shall include any building
or structure or premises not defined herein as a "residence".
CITY: The city of Ponca City.
COLLECTION ROUTE: Shall include "refuse route" and mean a prescribed line of
travel by crews and equipment engaged and used at regular stated intervals in
the collection, transportation and delivering of refuse for disposal.
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Shall be deemed to include excess materials that have been
discarded or unused as a result of the construction, repair or demolition of
any building, structure, or project and shall include, but not be limited to,
lumber, shingles, insulation, sheetrock, paper, plastic, concrete and concrete
tailings, the accumulation of which may create a nuisance or be deleterious to
public health or offensive to sight.
GARBAGE: Shall be deemed to include animal, fruit and vegetable waste materials
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of foods in
kitchens, stores, markets, hotels, restaurants and other places where food is
stored, cooked or consumed.
NONCOLLECTIBLE WASTE: Shall include poisons, acids, caustics, explosives, body
wastes, automobile frames, large bulky objects such as stoves, refrigerators,
hot water heaters, furniture, trees, and materials that may cause damage to
collection equipment or personal injury to collectors, dirt, rocks, or other
debris resulting from construction, reconstruction or repairs of premises,
grass clippings, animal excreta, dead animals, or any article or substance
soiled by human or animal excreta that has not been wrapped and tightly sealed
in moistureproof paper prior to placement for collection, and refuse which has
been combined or mixed with any of the above mentioned objects or items.
OCCUPANT OF PREMISES: The occupant of any premises within the city of Ponca
City.
OWNER: The owner of all premises where more than one family resides on a lot or
parcel of land, or adjoining lots or parcels of land belonging to the same
person, unless the premises occupied by each family, including the yards, are
clearly defined and under the exclusive control of the occupant.
PICK UP POINT: Any premises regularly serviced by the department of public
works, solid waste division.
PREMISES: Land, buildings, or other structures or parts thereof, upon or in
which refuse is stored or accumulated.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage, rubbish
and trash.
RENTAL AGENT: The agent, contractor or employee in charge of the renting or
maintenance of any premises occupied by more than one family.
RESIDENCE: Any building or structure used solely as a family domicile including
single- and multi-family dwelling units, apartments, rooming houses, boarding
houses, and trailer courts, but shall not include hotels, tourist courts,
motels, motor courts, motor hotels or apartment hotels.
RUBBISH: A normal accumulation by resident families or commercial
establishments of worthless, offensive matter, the accumulation of which may
create a nuisance or be deleterious to public health or offensive to sight or
smell but shall not include items or objects defined herein as noncollectible
wastes.
SPECIAL HANDLING WASTE: A waste that is integrated in the municipal solid waste
area of the landfill which requires extra attention. Examples are as follows:
documents which must be covered immediately, sludge which must be dried by
mixing with dirt, and nuisance materials such as carbon black.
TRASH: Nonputrescible solid wastes, including excessive accumulations of
household rubbish, but shall not include waste matter that is not in a proper
container as provided herein.
UNDUE ACCUMULATION: The accumulation of garbage, rubbish or trash in amounts
exceeding the capacity of the waste receptacle at the pick up point or at the
point of disposal. (1980 Code § 16-1; amd. Ord. 6109, 11-9-2009)
6-3-2: FUNCTIONS OF SOLID WASTE DIVISION:
The solid waste department shall assist in maintaining good general sanitation
and health conditions in the city by collecting, transporting and delivering
for disposal, and disposing in a safe and sanitary manner all garbage, rubbish
and trash collected within the city. (1980 Code § 16-31; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-3: CITY REMOVAL AUTHORITY; CONTRACT:
The board of commissioners is hereby exclusively authorized and empowered to
provide by contract or otherwise for the collection, removal and disposal of
trash, garbage or refuse within the corporate limits thereof, and no person,
firm, or corporation shall engage in the removal or disposal of trash, garbage
or refuse within the city, either from their own premises or premises of
another, unless specifically authorized to do so by contract or other written
authority of said board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 16-30)
6-3-4: UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation other than trash or
garbage collectors of the city, duly authorized by the board of commissioners,
their agents, servants or employees, to remove any trash or garbage from any
trash or garbage container in the city. (1980 Code § 16-27)
6-3-5: RENTAL AGENTS PROVIDE REFUSE SERVICE:
No rental agent shall rent any portion of any premises within the city and
occupied by more than one family or person, or permit occupancy of any portion
of the premises, unless the owner has provided refuse services and otherwise
complied with the provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 16-28)
6-3-6: OCCUPANT AND OWNER REQUEST REFUSE SERVICE:
   A.   Notify Clerk's Office: Every person occupying or having control of the
occupancy of any premises within the city shall notify the utility billing
office of the beginning of such occupancy and request refuse pick up service.
Failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such a
request shall not prevent, nor in any way impair or impede the city clerk's
office from: (1980 Code § 16-29; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Adding the address of the premises to the proper refuse collection
route records;
      2.   Providing such service;
      3.   Enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures prescribed
in this chapter and causing the fee or charge thereof to be paid.
   B.   Occupancy, Evidence Of Garbage Accumulation: Any place, abode or
residence, or any place of business occupied and/or in operation shall be prima
facie evidence that garbage, rubbish and/or trash is being produced and
accumulated on the premises. (1980 Code § 16-29)
6-3-7: GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Business Establishments:
      1.   Containers Furnished By City: The owners and/or operator of such
business, commercial establishment or institution in the city, being served by
the city solid waste department shall be furnished adequate refuse containers
at or near the rear of such establishment by the city. Charges for such
containers and collection service shall be provided herein.
      2.   Restrictions On Garbage Pick Up: Solid waste department personnel
shall not be permitted to enter businesses, commercial establishments, or
institutions to make collections, nor shall collection be made of any refuse
not placed in a closed container provided by the city. The city shall not
collect, except by special pick up as provided herein, any items listed in
subsection 6-3-8C1 of this chapter. Special pick up shall be as provided in
subsection 6-3-8C2 of this chapter.
      3.   Wet Garbage: Businesses, commercial establishments and institutions
depositing wet garbage in containers provided by the city for collection shall
wrap such garbage in moistureproof paper or plastic bags prior to depositing in
said container. (1980 Code § 16-32; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Enclosed Receptacles: No person shall deposit any wastepaper, cans, or
other rubbish for collection on any street or public or private property within
the city without placing same in an enclosed receptacle or container. (1980
Code § 16-33)
   C.   City Owned Containers: City owned two (2) cubic yard containers may be
used upon the recommendation of the solid waste department. (1980 Code § 16-34;
amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Refuse Can Specifications; Use; Placement; Removal:
      1.   Use: The owners, occupants or rental agents of residential dwellings
shall provide a sufficient number of refuse containers or receptacles for the
storage and disposal of garbage, rubbish and trash. As such, receptacles shall
be kept clean and in good repair. The lids or covers of containers or
receptacles shall be kept securely in place at all times that the container or
receptacle contains refuse so that flies and other insects will not have access
to the contents thereof.
      2.   Specifications: Refuse containers shall be of substantial galvanized
metal or plastic construction, and provided with handles of sufficient strength
to lift such container and the contents therein, and a tight fitting, flytight
cover with handle. Containers shall be not less than twenty (20) nor more than
thirty five (35) gallons and shall weigh not more than seventy five (75) pounds
when filled. All receptacles shall be watertight. Disposable plastic bags may
be used in lieu of refuse containers provided herein. However, where disposable
plastic bags are used, the bag must be securely tied and weight of contents
shall not exceed the manufacturer's weight specifications, nor shall they be
torn or contain objects not recommended by the manufacturer or that may create
a hazardous condition for collection personnel. (1980 Code § 16-35)
      3.   Nonconforming Containers:
         a.   Any container that does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter or that may have ragged or sharp edges, or any other defect liable to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof, shall be promptly
replaced by an approved container upon receipt of notice to that effect from
the solid waste superintendent. If the container is not replaced within ten
(10) days after receipt of notice, it shall be disposed of by the solid waste
department as waste. (1980 Code § 16-35; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   Oil drums, grease drums, and similar metal containers, paper
grocery bags, broken wooden boxes and crates, broken or wet cardboard boxes are
not acceptable as refuse containers and will not be picked up or emptied. (1980
Code § 16-35)
      4.   Placement Of Refuse Containers:
         a.   Inside Premises: Solid waste department personnel shall not be
permitted to enter houses, gates, fenced portions of the premises, enclosed
porches, garages or similar enclosures to make collections.
         b.   Sunken Containers: Solid waste department personnel shall not be
permitted to remove refuse containers or refuse from underground, sunken or
recessed refuse container storage vaults or similar storage areas to make
collection. (1980 Code § 16-35; amd. 2003 Code)
         c.   Placement In Streets: All refuse containers shall be set out,
properly bundled or in proper containers as provided herein, at the front curb
line in plain view or in the event there is no front curb line, in plain view
at the edge of the nearest public street fronting the dwelling unit.
         d.   Placement In Alleys: If there is an alley in the rear of the
premises which offers all weather accessibility to refuse collection vehicles,
the refuse containers shall be placed in the alley front in which such dwelling
is located, but outside of any fences or enclosed areas, except as hereinafter
provided. The city manager or his appointed representative shall have the
authority to notify customers presently being serviced from alleys to relocate
their containers to conform with provisions of this chapter pertaining to
collection from the street if it is determined by the city manager that the
alley does not conform to all of the following conditions:
            (1)   The alley shall be a through alley so the refuse trucks are
not required to back into or back out of same in order to collect refuse; and
            (2)   The alley shall not be less than fifteen feet (15') wide; and
            (3)   If the alley is "L" or "T" shaped, the turns shall be wide
enough to be safe for the refuse collection trucks to turn without damage to
them or to adjacent improvements or private property; and
            (4)   The surface of the alley is of a material which, in the
opinion of the city manager, will permit the convenient and reasonably safe
operation of refuse trucks at all seasons of the year.
      5.   Removal Of Refuse Containers: Refuse containers placed for
collection as provided herein shall be removed by the owner or occupant from
the place of their placement for pick up within twenty four (24) hours from the
time said container is actually collected. (1980 Code § 16-35)
      6.   Carryout Service: When residents are served by carryout service,
refuse containers must be placed at the side of the house, provided that such
location does not place the container in a fenced or enclosed portion of the
premises and that such location is not more than seventy five feet (75') from
the alley or street which the refuse collection truck utilizes to serve such
dwelling unit. Carryout service will only be provided for the collection of
garbage, rubbish or trash when properly containerized. It shall not include
brush and leaf collection which must be placed at the curb line or alley front
when properly bundled. (1980 Code § 16-35; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Unauthorized Use, Meddling With Containers:
      1.   No person shall dispose of ashes, brush, garbage, noncollectable
waste, refuse, rubbish or trash (hereinafter collectively "trash") upon public
or private property except as specifically provided for in this chapter.
      2.   No person, without being or having the permission of the owner,
tenant or occupant of the premises served by any trash receptacle, shall damage
or otherwise meddle or interfere with the use of any trash receptacle.
      3.   No person shall deposit trash in a receptacle or container for
collection thereof, whether said receptacle be privately owned or furnished by
the city, without being or having the permission of the owner, tenant or
occupant of the premises served by said container. Provided, containers placed
in public places such as parks, ballfields and along sidewalks may be used by
the public for trash generated on those premises, but may not be used for
disposal of off site generated trash.
      4.   Persons shall be responsible for the proper disposal of their trash.
It shall be prima facie evidence of unlawful disposal of trash if documents
normally associated with the generation of trash bearing the name of the
charged party, such as envelopes, prescription bottles, bills, mail and junk
mail, are found in unauthorized containers.
      5.   Violations of this subsection E are determined to be offenses and
punishable within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6035,
2-13-2006)
6-3-8: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Authorized Collectors: It shall be unlawful for any person other than
authorized collectors as provided herein or owners of garbage, rubbish or trash
to collect, bundle or interfere in any manner with refuse containers,
receptacles or bulk refuse placed at the curb line or alley front or other
public places in the city.
   B.   Pick Up Of Garbage:
      1.   Refuse collected by the city, whether under contract with a licensed
operator or through its own city department, shall include "garbage",
"rubbish", "trash", "refuse", "brush" as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter. In addition, newspapers, if tied in bundles; cardboard
boxes, if collapsed and tied; and rags, leather and rubber goods, wastepaper,
if bundled, will be collected, provided that such materials may be loaded into
a packer type truck.
      2.   Brush, in order to be picked up, shall be bundled in bundles of not
more than thirty six inches (36") in diameter, and not be more than four feet
(4') in length. Individual limbs shall not exceed two inches (2") in diameter.
Leaves will be picked up only if bagged properly.
   C.   Special Pick Up:
      1.   Waste Described: The city shall not collect, except by special pick
up as provided herein, the following:
         a.   "Noncollectible waste" as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter.
         b.   "Undue accumulations" of refuse as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter.
         c.   Any refuse that is not placed in a proper container.
         d.   Any type of refuse not capable of being loaded into a packer type
truck.
         e.   Cuttings from shrubbery, leaves, grass, bedding straw and such
articles as would consume an unreasonable amount of space in the packer type
trucks or consume an unreasonable amount of loading time for a collection
route. (1980 Code § 16-36)
      2.   Special Arrangement: Residents desiring special pick up of
noncollectible refuse, brush or refuse listed in subsection C1 of this section
may make special arrangements for such pick up through the solid waste
department. Charges for such pick up shall be as provided herein. (1980 Code §
16-36; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Maximum Amount Of Refuse: A maximum of one hundred five (105) gallons
of refuse will be picked up per resident per pick up day. (1980 Code § 16-37)
6-3-9: RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS COLLECTION SCHEDULE:
   A.   Residential: All properly containerized refuse will be collected twice
weekly. Collection days shall be as designated by the city manager.
   B.   Business, Commercial Establishments And Institutions: Collection shall
be furnished daily according to the individual needs of the business,
commercial establishment or institution being serviced. (1980 Code § 16-38)
   C.   Times To Place Refuse For Pick Up: Refuse shall be placed at the curb
site or alley front as provided herein not later than six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
on the day of the designated schedule of pick up. No owner or occupant shall
permit trash, garbage or other refuse in or out of containers to stand along
the roadside waiting for collection or for any other reason for a continuous
period in excess of twenty four (24) hours. (1980 Code § 16-39; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Holiday Collection Schedule: The solid waste department shall observe
all days designated as public holidays to be observed by all personnel employed
in the city's service. Persons whose refuse collection day falls on a public
holiday will be serviced on their next regularly scheduled collection day.
(1980 Code § 16-40; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-10: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Regular Collection: For the purpose of deferring the expenses of
collection, removal, and disposal of trash, garbage and refuse as provided
herein, the Board of Commissioners, through its proper officer, is authorized
and directed to collect from the owners and occupants of any premises within
the city limits a charge payable each month. Such charges are hereby
specifically provided for and fixed in the following schedule of rates and
shall be effective from the first billing cycle in July 2025:
      1.   Single-Family Residences: For each single-family residence,
including house trailers or mobile homes, the charge will be $24.02 per month;
except for those in which the head of the household is sixty-five (65) years of
age or older, in which event the charge will be $23.07 per month.
      2.   Carryout Service: For each residential unit, of any type, requiring
carryout service, a charge of $11.98 per month, in addition to the regular
monthly charge.
      3.   Special Pick Up: Any special pick up for undue accumulation, non-
collectible waste or other special pick-ups which are not normally placed in
the container and picked up during regular pick up days, shall be subject to a
minimum charge of $46.17.
      4.   Grass Clippings: A special pick up charge for grass clippings is
$9.25 minimum or $0.91 per bag, whichever is greater.
      5.   Privately Owned Containers: For each business establishment for
which a service is provided without a City-owned container, a charge of $40.60
per month for solid waste service.
      6.   City Provided Containers:
         a.   Businesses: Monthly charges for businesses, commercial
establishments and institutions for which the City provides the containers
shall be as follows:
 
           1/WK    2/WK    3/WK     4/WK     5/WK
2 yard      $83.11  $153.78 $213.37  $269.69  $329.27
3 yard      $105.32 $185.67 $262.31  $338.50  $412.83
4 yard      $128.39 $224.44 $318.17  $407.31  $497.35
6 yard      $171.30 $299.23 $415.61  $543.08  $665.93
6 yard comp $637.48 $863.11 $1088.75 $1314.39 $1540.01
 
         b.   Outside City Limits Fuel Surcharge: Additionally, a fuel
surcharge is imposed on container accounts that are located outside the city
limits. The surcharges are:
            (1)   Two (2) to five (5) miles outside city limits, add $14.66 per
pull in addition to base container rate;
            (2)   Over five (5) to ten (10) miles outside city limits, add
$38.27 per pull in addition to base container rate;
            (3)   Over ten (10) to fifteen (15) miles outside city limits, add
$62.17 per pull in addition to base container rate;
            (4)   Over fifteen (15) to twenty (20) miles outside city limits,
add $86.10 per pull in addition to base container rate
      7.   Outside City Limits: The charge for trash and garbage collection
outside the city limits shall be the same amount set for citizens who reside
inside the city limits.
      8.   Compactor Type Containers: A charge of $10.61 per cubic yard, plus
$1.25 per ton for the state solid waste landfill fee, plus $211.50 per lift, is
hereby established for pick up, hauling and landfill fees for those persons,
firms or corporations utilizing compactor type containers. Those persons, firms
or corporations utilizing front unloading compactors will be charged an
additional $78.14 per pull for the additional handling of containers.
      9.   Landfill Use: All users of the Municipal Landfill shall pay the
applicable rates set forth below and no federal, state, county, municipality,
Indian tribe or nonprofit agency shall be exempt from such charge. Rates shall
be established for vehicles delivering refuse to the City Landfill; the rates
based on the weight of the refuse disposed are as follows:
 
All vehicles: $21.11 minimum
$54.71  per ton for compacted/uncompacted refuse
$143.92 per ton for special handling waste
$154.55 per cubic yard for other industrial waste
$1.25   per ton state solid waste landfill fee
$9.62   per tire disposed of at the landfill
Double rates will be imposed on any vehicle entering the landfill with an open
load (uncovered or unsecured).
 
      10.   Open Top Roll-Off Containers: The following rates are established
for usage of a City-owned open top roll-off container:
 
$6.94   per cubic yard capacity Plus
$1.25   per ton state solid waste landfill fee Plus
$211.50 per pull of the container
 
   A minimum of two (2) pulls per month is required or a $215.24 per month
container rental will apply.
      11.   Monthly Charge, Compactors: The monthly charge for City-owned,
self-contained compactors shall be $554.16.
      12.   Cardboard Collection: The charge for the collection of cardboard in
specially marked City-owned containers shall be 75% of the rate of the same
size of container as set forth in this section.
      13.   Special Containers: If the specially marked containers are not
properly utilized, the establishment shall be charged full rate for the size of
the container as described herein.
   B.   Rates For Special Events: For the purpose of deferring the expenses of
collection, and removal and disposal of trash, garbage and refuse as provided
herein, the Board of Commissioners, through its proper officer, is authorized
and directed to collect from the owners or responsible agencies of any special
functions within the city limits a charge payable per City-owned container
utilized or requested. Such charges are hereby specifically provided for and
fixed in the following schedule of rates and shall be effective from the first
billing cycle in July 2024:
      1.   City-Owned Containers: Charges for City-owned containers at special
events or special functions for which the City provided the service or
container shall be as follows:
 
Cubic Yards Per Pick Up Or Service
2           $27.71
3           $33.26
4           $36.97
6           $46.17
 
      2.   Setup Fee: A setup fee of $36.24 is established per City-owned
container for the transportation to and from the event.
(Ord. 6254, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 6295, 5-24-2021; Ord. 6308, 5-23-2022; Ord.
6323, 5-22-2023; Ord. 6342, 5-28-2024; Ord. 6357, 5-27-2025)
6-3-11: TRANSPORTING GARBAGE:
   A.   Nuisance Condition Prohibited: The transportation of all trash, garbage
or other refuse through streets, alleys, or thoroughfares within the City
limits shall be conducted in such manner as to create no nuisance and shall
comply with all ordinances of the City.
   B.   Vehicle Design: Collection vehicles for garbage shall have completely
enclosed watertight bodies. All collection vehicles shall be so designed that
the wheel and axle loads, when fully loaded, shall not exceed the schedule of
weights allowed by the laws of the state. (1980 Code § 16-42)
6-3-12: NONCOLLECTIBLE WASTE:
Noncollectible waste shall not be placed with refuse for collecting, but shall
be disposed of correctly and properly by the person or persons owning,
occupying, renting or leasing the premises wherein such material is
accumulated. (1980 Code § 16-43)
6-3-13: REFUSE DISPOSAL AT CITY LANDFILL:
   A.   Residential Trash: Residential trash, garbage or other refuse may be
disposed of personally by the producer of same at the city sanitary landfill
site or transfer point provided by the city. The producer of such trash,
garbage or refuse shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of
such materials to the disposal site in a lawful manner and to dispose of such
material in a lawful manner.
   B.   All Refuse: All collected trash, garbage or other refuse originating in
the city, whether collected by the city under contract with a licensed
contractor, through its own city department, or collected by persons on their
own premises and disposed of by said persons, if disposed of within the city
and by said contractor or persons, shall be disposed of in a lawful manner.
Persons collecting and transporting trash, garbage or other refuse on a
commercial basis, who dispose of said trash, garbage or other refuse at a
landfill site or transfer point owned or maintained by the city, shall pay the
city fees prescribed by the board of commissioners, by resolution, for disposal
of said trash, garbage or other refuse.
   C.   Refuse Generated Outside State: Any waste generated from outside of the
state and presented for disposal at sanitary landfills operated by the city
must first be approved for disposal by the board of commissioners before its
acceptance by the landfill. (1980 Code § 16-44)
6-3-14: LITTERING; BURYING:
No person shall throw, discard or bury any trash, garbage, construction debris
or other refuse upon any premises, public or private, in any manner that may
menace the public health or cause a nuisance of offensive odors or sight. Any
violation of this section shall be an offense punishable within the
jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6109, 11-9-2009)
6-3-15: DEPOSITING AND SCATTERING:
No person shall deposit, scatter or allow to be scattered, any trash, garbage,
construction debris or any refuse upon any premises, public or private, in any
manner that may menace the public health or cause a nuisance of offensive odors
or sight. Any violation of this section shall be an offense punishable within
the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6109, 11-9-2009)
6-3-16: COLLECTION OF ASHES:
Ashes shall not be placed in the same receptacle with any other refuse or trash
but shall be placed in separate containers for collection. Ashes shall be
soaked with water where necessary to extinguish all live embers prior to
placement for collection. No hot ashes shall be collected. (1980 Code § 16-23)
6-3-17: CLEANLINESS:
It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any building, residential or
commercial establishment having trash, garbage, or other refuse to provide for
and have proper storage containers as provided for herein of sufficient size
and number to handle the accumulation of trash, garbage or refuse on the
premises during the interval between private and public collections. In the
case of collections not taken care of by the city, there shall be no undue
accumulation of materials, and the buildings and premises shall be kept in a
clean and orderly condition. (1980 Code § 16-25)
6-3-18: PROTECTION FROM RATS; CONTAINER BASE:
Every business, commercial establishment, or institution shall be required to
protect its trash and garbage containers from the infestation by rats. If the
alley surface is not suitable for the container provided by the city, then the
owner or occupant of the premises shall be required to construct a flat base
for trash and garbage containers provided by the city, made of concrete four
inches (4") thick or its equivalent. (1980 Code § 16-26)
6-3-19: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast or
deposit upon any street, alley, sidewalk or any yard or premises, public or
private, any filth of any kind, or cans, paper, trash, paper containers,
rubbish, bottles or any other form of litter or waste matter. (1980 Code § 16-
2)
   B.   Duty Of Business Owners, Occupants:
      1.   Generally: The owner or occupant of any store or other place of
business situated within the city shall exercise reasonable diligence at all
times to keep his premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins,
cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials thrown or left on
the premises by its customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent the
same from drifting or blowing onto adjoining premises.
      2.   Receptacles: Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be
placed on the premises accessible to the customers of such business where the
above referred to articles of waste may be disposed of.
      3.   Signs: Each and every business establishment shall place upon its
premises in conspicuous places in close proximity to the receptacles above
referred to, signs which shall, in essence, convey to its customers a request
that they use such receptacles for the disposal of waste material. (1980 Code §
16-3)
   C.   Duty Of Customer: It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the
premises of another to in any manner dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper,
paper napkins, cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials
except in receptacles provided for such purposes. (1980 Code § 16-4)
   D.   Operators Of Curb Service Establishments: Every person, firm or
corporation operating so called curb service, sandwich or drink businesses at
which the customers are served in their automobiles shall, at the close of each
day's business, clean and sweep up and remove from the grounds thereof and the
streets, alleys, sidewalks and parking on and adjacent to such premises all the
trash and refuse, including paper cups, and paper napkins, fountain straws and
other rubbish which has therein accumulated. (1980 Code § 16-5)
6-3-20: DUTY OF OWNERS ABUTTING ALLEY:
   A.   Litter In Alley: It is the duty of owners, occupants and tenants
(collectively for this section "owner") of property abutting an alley to keep
and maintain the alley abutting their property, from the centerline of the
alley to the property line of the owner, clean and free of uncontainerized
trash, rubbish and debris.
   B.   Vegetation Growing In Alley: No owner shall permit vegetation to grow
between the centerline of an alley abutting the owner's property to the
property line of the owner's property so as to interfere with the safe passage
of vehicles thereon or with lawful uses of the alley.
   C.   Duties Of Solid Waste Division: It is determined that the duties of the
solid waste division, as part of the operation of the solid waste utility,
shall include the responsibility of monitoring the cleanliness and safe passage
of alleys. In the event an owner fails to maintain their portion of an alley
clean and free of uncontainerized trash, rubbish and debris as per the
requirements of subsection A of this section, or has failed to maintain
vegetation in the alley so as to not interfere with the safe passage of
vehicles or other lawful uses of alleys as per the requirements of subsection B
of this section, it shall be the responsibility of the solid waste division to
so inform the owner by prominently placarding the property in such a manner as
to put the owner on notice of the deficiency and the owner's duty to remedy the
problem. If the owner fails to remedy the problem within ten (10) days thereof,
the solid waste division shall be responsible for cleaning the property and
collecting the costs thereof from the owner at a published rate to be
established by the solid waste division.
   D.   Violation: Any violation of a provision of this section shall be an
offense punishable within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court.
(Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Certain Vehicles Prohibited
6-4-3: Nuisance Declared
6-4-4: Notice Of Violation; Hearing
6-4-5: Removal By City
6-4-6: Reclamation By Owner
6-4-7: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings given herein:
DISMANTLED, JUNKED, ABANDONED, UNSERVICEABLE, WRECKED, PARTIALLY DISMANTLED OR
INOPERABLE VEHICLES: Shall be deemed to include the major parts thereof,
including bodies, engines, transmissions, frames and rear ends.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property in the city which is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned or controlled in the city limits of the
city of Ponca City, Kay County, state of Oklahoma, or the United States
government, and shall include all streets and highways.
VEHICLE: Any automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, wagon,
bus, motor scooter, go cart, golf cart, or self- propelled farm or construction
equipment. (1980 Code § 21-50)
6-4-2: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall deposit, store, keep or permit to be deposited, stored or kept
in the open upon public or private property, a dismantled, junked, abandoned,
unserviceable, wrecked, partially dismantled, inoperable, junked or abandoned
vehicle or any vehicle legally or physically incapable of being operated on the
public streets, for a period exceeding forty eight (48) hours, unless such
vehicle, or the parts thereof, is completely enclosed within a building or
stored in connection with a business lawfully established pursuant to the
zoning ordinances of the city, or is stored on property lawfully designated
under the zoning ordinances of the city as a place for such vehicles to be
stored. (1980 Code § 21-51)
6-4-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The accumulation, storage or keeping of one or more vehicles or parts thereof
as described in section
6-4-2 of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the city. It shall be the duty of the
owner of such vehicle or the parts thereof or the owner of the private property
or the lessee or other person in possession or control of the property upon
which such vehicle is located to remove the vehicle from such property or have
the vehicle housed in a building where it will not be visible from the street
or from other private property. The removal or enclosure shall be made within
five (5) days after notice has been given to the owner of the vehicle or the
owner, lessee or person in control of the property upon which such vehicle is
located that the vehicle or vehicles have been determined to be a nuisance by
the code enforcement official. The time may be extended by the enforcement
official in the case of an obvious hardship. (1980 Code § 21-52)
6-4-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; HEARING:
   A.   Delivery Or Posting Of Notice: The code enforcement official or his
designee shall notify the owner of the vehicle, or the owner of the private
property or the lessee or other person in possession or control of the property
upon which such vehicle is located of such abandoned, junked, unserviceable,
inoperable or dismantled vehicle, by personal delivery of such notice or the
posting of such notice on the front door of the property upon which such
vehicle is located and the vehicle that the code enforcement official has
determined to be a nuisance pursuant to section
6-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Hearing And Appeal: The owner of the vehicle or the owner or possessor
of the property may request a hearing to appeal the code enforcement official's
determination by making application for appeal, in person, with the municipal
court clerk within five (5) days of the posting or delivery of the notice,
whichever is sooner. Such appeal will be heard before a judge of the municipal
court as scheduled by the municipal court clerk. Such appeal hearing shall be
de novo with the burden upon the city to establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the vehicle is in fact properly designated a nuisance and that
its location or maintenance is prohibited by this chapter. (1980 Code § 21-53)
6-4-5: REMOVAL BY CITY:
Upon failure of the owner of the vehicle or the owner, lessee or person in
control of the property upon which the vehicle is located to request an appeal
hearing, or to remove the vehicle or to place it in an enclosed building within
five (5) days after notice has been given as set forth above, or to appear at
an appeal hearing which they may have scheduled, the code enforcement official
shall promptly cause the vehicle to be removed. (1980 Code § 21-54)
6-4-6: RECLAMATION BY OWNER:
The owner of any vehicle so removed may regain possession thereof by making
application to the code enforcement official within thirty (30) days after its
removal and upon payment to the city all reasonable costs of removal and
storage which shall have accrued to such vehicle. If the vehicle is not
reclaimed within thirty (30) days, it may be sold or disposed of without
further notice and, after payment of towing and storage costs, all funds
remaining shall become the property of the city to defray the remaining costs
of abatement. (1980 Code § 21-55)
6-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person in violation of section
6-4-2 or
6-4-3 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each and every violation and each day of such violation
shall be a separate offense. (1980 Code § 21-56; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING AND FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
6-5-1: Smoking Prohibited
6-5-2: Open Burning
6-5-3: Fireworks
6-5-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Smoking Within Any Indoor Public Places/School Spaces Prohibited: It is
unlawful to smoke tobacco, clove, herbal, alternative smoking products or vapor
producing products:
      1.   Within any indoor place, used by or open to the public, except as
may be permitted by Oklahoma Statutes;
      2.   On public transportation;
      3.   In any indoor workplace (except where specifically allowed by law)
and in school buildings and on school property where prohibited by the
institution owning the property. It is also unlawful to smoke such products
within twenty five feet (25') of the entrances to such public or open to the
public facilities.
   B.   Exceptions: The restrictions provided in this section shall not apply
to stand alone bars, stand alone taverns and cigar bars as defined by Oklahoma
Statutes or in vapor shops which sell exclusively vapor products.
   C.   Designated Outdoor Spaces:
      1.   The park and recreation department shall determine where "No
Smoking" signs should be installed, and install the same, to prohibit smoking
within fifty feet (50') of public outdoor venues owned by the city where groups
of people assemble and where smoking should not be permitted in consideration
of the following criteria:
         a.   Protection of the health of other users of the facility by
avoiding secondhand smoke or vapors of unknown substances;
         b.   To discourage smoking and vapor products near areas where youth
are likely to congregate;
         c.   Where there are city improvements present which could be damaged
by fire or lighted tobacco products;
         d.   Where there is the potential for accumulation of smoking debris
such as to constitute unsightly litter and to prevent the toxic residue of
tobacco products accumulating and leaching into the ground.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be an offense punishable in
the municipal court by a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 6185, 3-10-2014)
6-5-2: OPEN BURNING:
No person shall set fire to or burn grass, trash or any other debris or rubbish
inside the city other than in incinerators approved by the fire marshal or in
an outside open location approved by the fire marshal. The fire marshal is
authorized to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary for safe
burning in incinerators and of outside debris, rubbish and trash. Domestically
generated trash and garbage shall not be subject to burning, but shall be
landfilled. Any appeal from such a determination of the fire marshal under this
section shall be to the city commission. Any violation of this section shall be
an offense punishable within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court.
(Ord. 6080, 5-12-2008)
6-5-3: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: "Fireworks display" shall mean an outdoor fireworks display
of aerial shells or ground display pieces.
   B.   Use Restrictions; Display Allowed: It shall be unlawful for any person
to possess, store, to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or use or
explode any fireworks. Exception: The use of fireworks for display is allowed
as set forth in the fireworks permit process.
   C.   Display Permit Required; Application: Fireworks permits are required to
conduct a fireworks display. Permit application shall be made not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled date of the display. The permit
application shall include a diagram of the grounds on which the display is to
be held showing the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged; the
location of buildings, highways and other lines of communication; the lines
behind which the audience will be restrained; and the location of nearby trees,
telegraph or telephone lines and other overhead obstructions. At the time of
permit application, the fire chief shall be consulted regarding requirements
for standby fire apparatus. Fireworks display permits are required to be in the
possession of the operator at the time of the display and are not transferable
to any other person or location.
   D.   Supervision: Fireworks display operations shall be under the direct
supervision of a pyrotechnic operator. The pyrotechnic operator shall be
responsible for all aspects of a display related to pyrotechnics.
   E.   Bond Or Insurance: The permittee shall furnish a bond or certificate of
insurance in the amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for the payment of damages which could be caused either to a
person or persons or to property by reason of the permitted display and arising
from acts of the permittee, agents, employees or subcontractors.
   F.   Special Effects Permit: A permit is required to use pyrotechnic special
effects material. A permit for use shall be granted only to a pyrotechnic
operator.
   G.   Permit Fee: Permit fee shall be in such amount as established by
resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time.
   H.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
EMERGENCY ACTION EXPENSES RECOVERY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Purpose
6-6-3: Liability
6-6-4: Recovery Of Expense
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms herein are defined as follows:
EMERGENCY ACTION: All of the concerted activities conducted in order to prevent
or mitigate injury to human health or the environment from a release or
threatened release of any material into or upon the environment.
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES: Shall include the city, emergency management department,
the city utility authority, the city development authority, the city public
works authority, any entity responding under a mutual aid agreement with the
city or any entity responding at the request of and on behalf of the city.
PERSON: Shall include any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
firm, trustee or legal representative.
RECOVERABLE EXPENSES: In general, are those expenses that are reasonable,
necessary and allocable to the emergency action. Recoverable expenses should
not include normal expenditures that are incurred in the course of providing
what are traditionally local services and responsibilities, such as routine
firefighting within the city limits. Expenses allowable for recovery may
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Disposable materials and supplies acquired, consumed and expended
specifically for the purpose of the emergency action.
   B.   Compensation of employees for the time and efforts devoted specifically
to the emergency action that is not otherwise provided for in the governmental
entity's operating budget.
   C.   Rental or leasing of equipment used specifically for the emergency
action (e.g., protective equipment or clothing, scientific, technical or
specialized equipment).
   D.   Replacement cost for equipment owned by the governmental entity that is
contaminated beyond reuse or repair if the governmental entity can demonstrate
that the equipment was a total loss and that the loss occurred during the
emergency action (e.g., self-contained breathing apparatus irretrievably
contaminated during the response, protective clothing that cannot be
decontaminated, etc.).
   E.   Decontamination of equipment contaminated during the response.
   F.   Special technical services specifically required for the response
(e.g., cost associated with the time and efforts of technical experts or
specialists not otherwise provided for by the governmental entity).
   G.   Other special services specifically required for the emergency action.
   H.   Laboratory cost for the purposes of analyzing samples taken during the
emergency action.
   I.   Any costs of cleanup, storage and/or disposal of the released material.
   J.   Costs associated with the services, supplies and equipment procured for
a specific evacuation.
   K.   Medical expenses incurred as a result of response activities.
   L.   Medical expenses that may be incurred as a result of the emergency
action, including efforts to recover expenses pursuant to this chapter.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into or upon
the environment. (1980 Code § 14-41; amd. 2003 Code)
6-6-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides a means for the governmental entities to recover through
billing procedures or through civil suit the recoverable expenses they incur in
taking an emergency action. (1980 Code § 14-42)
6-6-3: LIABILITY:
Any and all persons responsible for a release or threatened release which
results in an emergency action shall be liable to the governmental entities for
the recoverable expenses resulting from the emergency action. (1980 Code § 14-
43)
6-6-4: RECOVERY OF EXPENSE:
The staffs of the governmental entities involved in the emergency action shall
keep a detailed record of its recoverable expenses resulting from the emergency
action, and said staff shall certify that these expenses were incurred, before
billing is sent out. (1980 Code § 14-44)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Emergency Authority Of Mayor
6-7-3: General Operation
6-7-4: Emergency Powers
6-7-5: Enemy Caused Emergency
6-7-6: Natural Emergency
6-7-7: Expenditures Restricted
6-7-8: Liability
6-7-9: Gifts, Donations
6-7-10: Compensation; Expenses
6-7-11: Powers And Duties, Generally
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state or local law or ordinance, to protect the public
peace, health and safety, and to preserve lives and property, in the city
during any emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, tornado, storm
or other catastrophe in or near the city and involving imminent or actual peril
to life and property in the city. These functions include administration,
organization, planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare
service, relief service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue
service, medical service, health service, transportation service,
communications service, streets and sewers service, utilities service, general
engineering service, plant protection service, supply service, mutual aid,
mobile support, evacuation, and all other functions necessary or incidental to
the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States,
and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the city. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the mayor shall so declare by public
proclamation. Such emergency shall be deemed to continue to exist until the
mayor shall declare its termination by public proclamation, or until the
governing body shall declare its termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, tornado, storm or other
catastrophe in or near the city and involving imminent peril to lives and
property in the city. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be
terminated under the same conditions as prescribed for any "enemy caused
emergency". (1980 Code § 10-1; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-2: EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF MAYOR:
   A.   The emergency management authority of the city is vested in the mayor,
who shall have the power to delegate the authority to other individuals,
committees or organizations. Such powers to be exercised by the vice mayor in
the absence of the mayor.
Should exigencies warrant, the city manager may proclaim the existence of a
state of emergency which edict shall remain in force until such time as the
mayor or city commission shall either ratify or repeal the same.
   B.   The Mayor, during the existence of a state of emergency, by
proclamation, may, in the area affected by public disorder, disaster, or riot
at the time of the proclamation is issued:
      1.   Prohibit any person being on the public streets, or in the public
parks or at any other public place during the hours declared by the Mayor to be
a period of curfew;
      2.   Prohibit a designated number of persons from assembling or gathering
on the public streets, parks or other areas either public or private;
      3.   Prohibit the transporting, possessing or using of gasoline,
kerosene, or combustible, flammable, or explosive liquids or materials in a
glass or uncapped container of any kind except in connection with the normal
operation of motor vehicles, normal home use or legitimate commercial use;
(Ord. 6030, 10-24-2005)
      4.   (Rep. by Ord. 6044, 7-24-2006)
      5.   Prohibit the sale, purchase or dispensing of alcoholic beverages;
(Ord. 6259, 6-11-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
      6.   Prohibit the sale, purchase or dispensing of other commodities or
goods, as (s)he reasonably believes should be prohibited to help preserve and
maintain life, health, property or the public peace;
      7.   Prohibit the use of certain streets, highways or public ways by the
public;
      8.   Prohibit such other activities as (s)he reasonably believes should
be prohibited to help preserve and maintain life, health, property or the
public peace;
      9.   Waive competitive bidding and other statutory provisions in the
conduct of government which would be time consuming to the detriment of the
health, welfare and safety of persons and/or property;
      10.   Requisition public and privately held resources for transportation,
fuel and its transportation, public shelter and quarantine, foodstuffs, and
medical supplies and equipment;
      11.   Declare quarantine;
      12.   Restrict the passage of people and goods into and out of the City
or within its interior;
      13.   Mandate the cancellation of events wherein a significant number of
persons may be anticipated to gather.
   C.   Pursuant to the Oklahoma Emergency Management Act of 2003 and
specifically section 683.11(F) the Mayor and the Board of Commissioners are
authorized to exercise emergency powers without regard to time consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law (excepting mandatory
constitutional requirements) pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering into contracts, incurring obligations, the employment of temporary
workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and materials, and
the appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
   D.   The Mayor may impose the emergency powers herein contemplated for such
times, upon such conditions, with such exceptions and in such areas as (s)he
from time to time deems necessary, subject to the Board of Commissioners' power
to terminate. (Ord. 6030, 10-24-2005)
6-7-3: GENERAL OPERATION:
The Emergency Management Director shall have general direction and control of
the Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying
out the provisions of this chapter. In so doing, all reasonable efforts shall
be made to cooperate, insofar as permitted by other appropriate legislation,
with the Federal government, State government, and its subdivisions, with other
states and their subdivisions, and with private agencies, in all matters
pertaining to emergency management in the City. (1980 Code § 10-5; amd. 2003
Code)
6-7-4: EMERGENCY POWERS:
Prior to an emergency within the City, the Emergency Management Director shall
have the following powers:
   A.   To make, amend and rescind the necessary orders, rules and regulations
to carry out the provisions of this chapter within the limits of the authority
conferred upon him herein, with due consideration to be given to the plans and
powers of the Federal government, the State government, and other public and
private agencies and organizations empowered to act in either enemy caused
emergencies or natural emergencies, or both.
   B.   To prepare comprehensive plans for the emergency management of the city
in both enemy caused and natural emergencies, such plans and programs to be
integrated and coordinated with the plans and programs of the federal
government, of the state government, and of other public and private agencies
and organizations empowered to act in either enemy caused or natural
emergencies, or both.
   C.   To establish, within the limits of funds available, a public warning
system composed of sirens, horns, or other acceptable warning devices.
   D.   To establish and carry out recruitment and training programs as may be
necessary to develop an adequate, qualified emergency management volunteer
corps.
   E.   To conduct drills, exercises and similar programs as may be necessary
to develop a well trained, alert, fully prepared emergency management
department.
   F.   To make such studies and surveys of the industries, resources and
facilities of the city as it deems necessary to ascertain its capabilities for
emergency management, and plan for the most efficient emergency use therefor.
   G.   On behalf of the city, to enter into mutual aid arrangements with
surrounding communities, both in the states of Oklahoma and of Kansas, subject
to the approval of the city commission.
   H.   To delegate any administrative authority vested in it under this
chapter, and to provide for the subdelegation of any such authority.
   I.   To take any other action proper and lawful under its authority to
prepare for either an enemy caused or a natural emergency. (1980 Code § 10-6;
amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-5: ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY:
In the event of any actual enemy caused emergency, as proclaimed by the mayor,
the emergency management director, with the approval of the mayor, may exercise
during such emergency, the power to enforce all rules and regulations relating
to emergency management, and acting under the authority of statutes, when
enacted, or under the authority of the mayor as an agent of the state governor,
may take control of all means of transportation and communications, all stocks
of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and supplies, and all facilities including
buildings and plants, and exercise all powers necessary to secure the safety
and protection of the civilian population. In exercising such powers, he shall
be guided by regulations and orders issued by the federal government and the
state governor relating to emergency management and shall take no action
contrary to orders which may be issued by the governor under similar emergency
powers. (1980 Code § 10-7; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-6: NATURAL EMERGENCY:
In the event of any natural emergency as proclaimed by the mayor, the emergency
management director shall coordinate in every way proper the activities of the
emergency management department. It is specifically charged in such emergency
with the collection, evaluation, and dissemination of information to all
agencies, both public and private, participating in the city's emergency
management department or cooperating in any such emergency. It shall, as
emergency management authority, have the power to recommend appropriate action,
but it shall not otherwise have control over the participating agencies. It
shall also recommend to the mayor the allocation of any funds received from the
federal or state government or from any other source to alleviate distress and
aid in restoring normal conditions. (1980 Code § 10-8; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-7: EXPENDITURES RESTRICTED:
Expenditures for supplies, equipment and other necessary items for the city's
emergency management program shall be made only on the authority of the city
manager. (1980 Code § 10-9; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-8: LIABILITY:
Neither the city nor any officer or member of the emergency management
department provided for in this chapter shall be liable for personal injury or
property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer
emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency
management activity prior to or during either an enemy caused or a natural
emergency. Nor shall the city or any such officer or member be liable for the
death or injury of any persons, or damage to property, resulting from such
emergency management activity prior to or during either an enemy caused or a
natural emergency. (1980 Code § 10-10; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-9: GIFTS, DONATIONS:
Whenever the federal government or the state, or any person shall offer to the
city any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift,
grant or loan, for purposes of emergency management, the mayor may accept such
offer and may authorize the emergency management department to receive same
subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if any, of the
agency making the offer. (1980 Code § 10-11; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-10: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
The emergency management director shall serve with or without compensation at
the discretion of the board of commissioners and may be reimbursed for actual
expenses in the conduct of his duties by submitting sworn claims for such
expenses and having said claims approved in the regular order of business.
(1980 Code § 10-42; amd. 2003 Code)
6-7-11: POWERS AND DUTIES, GENERALLY:
The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of the
department of emergency management and shall be responsible to the mayor and
city manager for carrying out the emergency management program of the city. He
shall coordinate the activities of all organizations for emergency management
within the city, and shall maintain liaison with, and cooperate with emergency
management agencies and organizations of other governmental units both within
and without the state and of the federal government, and shall have such
additional authority, duties, and responsibilities as may be authorized under
this chapter, or amendments hereto. (1980 Code § 10-43; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ABANDONED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Statutory Authority
6-8-3: Declaration Of Public Nuisance And Abatement Procedures
6-8-4: Petition For Removal
6-8-5: Administrative Officer
6-8-6: Right Of Appeal
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
                    Any building located within the municipality that is not
ABANDONED BUILDING: currently occupied and has been declared unsecured or
                    dilapidated pursuant to Section 22-112 or 22-112.1 of Title
                    11 of the Oklahoma Statutes and remains in such condition.
OWNER:              The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls
                    of the county treasurer. (Ord. 6331, 7-24-2023)
 
6-8-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Buildings within the municipal limits may be declared abandoned and abated as
such with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-121.4. (Ord. 6331, 7-24-2023)
6-8-3: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
The municipal governing body may abate the public nuisance caused by an
abandoned building within the municipal limits in accordance with the following
procedures:
   A.   At least ten (10) days’ notice that an abandoned building is to be
abated pursuant to the procedures for abatement set forth in this section shall
be given to the owner of the property before the governing body holds a
hearing. A copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at
the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the county
treasurer. Written notice shall also be sent by mail to any mortgage holder as
shown by the records in the office of the county clerk to the last-known
address of the mortgage holder. At the time of mailing of notice to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the municipality shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, the receipt of which shall indicate the date
of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property and by publication as defined in
Section 1-102 of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Such notice shall be
published once not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by
the municipality pursuant to the provisions of this section;
   B.   A hearing shall be held by the governing body to determine if the
property is an abandoned building as defined by this section;
   C.   Pursuant to a determination that the building is an abandoned building,
the governing body may order the agents of the municipality to pursue abatement
of the public nuisance caused by the building and shall order the city clerk to
place the building on an abandoned building list to be maintained by the clerk.
At any time after such determination and order, the agents of the municipality
may cause the public nuisance to be abated as authorized in this section, and
such abatement may continue until such time as the building is removed from the
abandoned building list in accordance with the procedures set forth in
6-8-4;
   D.   Abatement of an abandoned building by the municipality may include any
or all of the following:
      1.   Any lawful city regulatory or city police and fire protection action
in relation to the abandoned building or the owner of such building necessary
or appropriate for the protection of inhabitants in and visitors to the
municipality. Upon receipt of any necessary warrant to authorize such action,
the agents of the municipality are granted the right of entry onto the property
for the performance of any such action as a governmental function of the
municipality,
      2.   The quarterly assessment against the property on which the abandoned
building is located and against the owner of the abandoned building of the
actual costs of any municipal regulatory action taken in relation to the
abandoned building or the owner of such building as authorized above,
      3.   The assessment against the property on which the abandoned building
is located and against the owner of the abandoned building of the actual costs
of any municipal police or fire protection action taken in relation to the
abandoned building or the owner of such building as authorized above, and
      4.   An assessment for any other actual expenses incurred by the
municipality in relation to the abandoned building, including, but not limited
to, the costs of notices, mailings and publications.
   E.   After the determination that a building is an abandoned building, and
before commencement of any of the abatement actions authorized by paragraphs C
and D, the city clerk shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk
describing the property, the findings of the governing body at the hearing, and
stating that the municipality claims a lien on the property for all abatement
costs and that such costs shall also constitute the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date of filing of the notice;
   F.   From and after the determination that a building is an abandoned
building, and continuing until such time as the building is removed from the
abandoned building list in accordance with the procedures set forth in
paragraph G, the city clerk shall determine the actual quarterly abatement
costs for the abatement procedures authorized by this section. After such
determination, the city clerk shall mail a statement of the actual quarterly
abatement costs for the abatement procedures authorized by this section to the
property owner and demand the payment of such costs by the owner. In addition,
a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address
provided for in paragraph A. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs
to any property owner or mortgage holder, the city clerk shall obtain a receipt
of mailing from the postal service, the receipt of which shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee; and
   G.   When full payment is made to the city clerk for actual abatement costs
incurred and billed in accordance with paragraph F of this subsection, the city
clerk shall send the property owner and any mortgage holder by mail a receipt
for such payment; but if payment attributable to the actual quarterly costs of
such abatement is not made within six (6) months from the date of the mailing
of the statement to the owner of such property, a lien in the actual amount of
the abatement shall be filed against the abandoned building. Until finally
paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of
the property owner from and after the date the notice of lien was filed with
the county clerk. In addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of lien was filed with the
county clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest
and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any lien created
pursuant to this section. Upon receiving full payment, the city clerk shall
forward to the county clerk a notice of discharge of the lien. (Ord. 6331, 7-
24-2023)
6-8-4: PETITION FOR REMOVAL:
Any owner or mortgage holder of any building determined by the governing body
of the municipality to be an abandoned building pursuant to this section may
petition the governing body in writing at any time after such determination for
removal of such building from the abandoned building list maintained by the
city clerk. Any such petition shall be filed with the city clerk. Within thirty
(30) days after such petition is filed with the city clerk, the governing body
shall hold a hearing to determine if the building is no longer an abandoned
building. Upon such a determination, the governing body shall order the
building removed from the abandoned building list. The city clerk shall comply
with such order by removing the building from the abandoned building list;
provided, the real property on which the abandoned building is located and the
owner of such building shall remain liable for payment of any and all abatement
costs incurred by the municipality prior to the determination and order by the
governing body that the building should be removed from the abandoned building
list. Upon full payment of any costs certified against the property, the city
clerk shall file a release of the notice of the lien in the county clerk’s
office within ten (10) days after receiving such payment. (Ord. 6331, 7-24-
2023)
6-8-5: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
The governing body hereby designates the Development Services Director or his
designee to carry out any or all of the duties of the governing body under this
chapter. (Ord. 6331, 7-24-2023)
6-8-6: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
The property owner shall have the right to appeal to the governing body from
any order of the administrative. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written
notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is delivered or mailed to the owner at the address shown
in the county treasurer records.
(Ord. 6331, 7-24-2023)
CHAPTER 9
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose And Intent
6-9-2: Definitions
6-9-3: Prohibited Noises - General Standard
6-9-4: Prohibited Noises - Specific Examples
6-9-5: Exemptions
6-9-6: Enforcement And Remedies
6-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Ponca city is an urbanized community with different land uses located in close
proximity to one another. This pattern of land use development makes it
inevitable that everyday noise will be audible to one (1) degree or another.
The city encourages all persons to be good citizens of their neighborhood, and
to be considerate to those who live nearby. Persons who work or reside in the
city should be knowledgeable of, and abide by, applicable laws and city
ordinances. The purpose of this chapter is to strike a balance between normal,
everyday noises that are unavoidable within the city environment and those
noises that are so excessive and annoying to persons of ordinary sensitivity
they should be curtailed in order to protect the comfort and tranquility of all
persons.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
6-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms as used in this chapter shall have the
meanings indicated as follows:
CONSTRUCTION: Shall mean any of the following:
   A.   The operation of any tool, machine or equipment including, vehicles,
and any associated work, including, but not limited to, demolition, grading,
excavating, or construction;
   B.   Performing any construction, maintenance or repair on buildings,
structures or utilities or any work preparing a site for construction or
repair;
   C.   Any painting using motorized equipment or any painting that is part of
the construction activity;
   D.   The loading or unloading of construction equipment, materials, or
supplies from vehicles at or near the site of the construction activity;
   E.   The staging or idling, at or near the site of construction activity, of
any construction vehicle or any vehicles bringing construction equipment,
materials or supplies to the site of the construction;
EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
property damage threatened or caused by an emergency or work by private or
public utilities when restoring utility services.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any police officer or animal control officer or code
enforcement officer employed by the City of Ponca City.
INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION: Construction activities taking place entirely within a
structure that is enclosed on all sides with the windows and doors installed
and closed.
OFF ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled motor vehicle having two or more
wheels which is intended for, or capable of, use off of public or private
roadways. This shall include, but is not limited to, motorcycles, dirt bikes,
ATV's, and go carts.
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD: Those portions of the city that are zoned for and
developed as residential dwelling units, regardless of density or residential
zoning classification.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The owner of property or the person in control of such
property or the person who is responsible for creating or allowing any sound or
noise to exist.
SOUND: Shall include, but not be limited to, amplified music or voices or
vibrations from amplified music or voices.
SUNRISE: The moment or instant in the morning under meteorological conditions
with standard refraction of the sun's rays, when the upper edge of the sun's
disc is coincident with an ideal horizon, as determined by the official US
timekeeper, the US Naval Observatory.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
6-9-3: PROHIBITED NOISES - GENERAL STANDARD:
Unless otherwise permitted in this chapter, no person shall make, permit to be
made or cause any noises, sounds or vibrations anywhere within the city that
are so loud, prolonged and harsh as to be annoying to reasonable persons of
ordinary sensitivity and to cause or contribute to the unreasonable discomfort
or disturbance of any persons within the vicinity. Causing or permitting noises
to occur is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and in violation of this
chapter. When considering whether a noise, sound or vibration is unreasonable
within the meaning of this section, the enforcement officer shall take in
consideration the following factors;
   A.   The volume and intensity of the noise, particularly as it is
experienced within a residence or place of business;
   B.   Whether the noise is prolonged and continuous;
   C.   How the noise contrasts with the ambient noise level;
   D.   The proximity of the noise source to residential and commercial uses;
   E.   The time of day; and
   F.   Any other relevant circumstances or conditions.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
6-9-4: PROHIBITED NOISES - SPECIFIC EXAMPLES:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the following acts and
the causing or permitting thereof within a residential neighborhood, are
declared to be a public nuisance and in violation of this chapter:
   A.   Amplified Sound, Radios, and Musical Instruments: The using, operating
or permitting to be played, used or operated between the hours of ten o’clock
(10:00 p.m.) and sunrise of any radio, musical instrument, stereo, television
set, or instrument or device similar to those specifically mentioned for the
production or reproduction of sound in volume sufficiently loud as to be
plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet or more therefrom its origin.
   B.   Engines, Motors and Mechanical Devices. The sustained, continuous or
repeated operation or use between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and
sunrise of any motor or engine or the repair, modification, reconstruction,
testing or operation of any automobile, motorcycle, ATV, machine, contrivance,
or mechanical device that is being plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet
(50') or more therefrom its origin. Racing the engine of any motor vehicle
shall be prohibited at any time at any location.
   C.   Loading And Unloading Waste and/or Materials. Loading, unloading,
opening, closing or other handling of boxes, containers, building materials, or
similar objects between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and sunrise,
excluding normal handling of solid waste, and recycling containers by a public
or franchised collector.
   D.   Construction Activities. Construction activity between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and sunrise. Interior construction is permissible. To
minimize the disturbance to the surrounding community, the motors and engines
for construction related vehicles and equipment shall not be left idling and
shall be turned off when not in use.
   E.   Non-Emergency Signaling Devices. Sounding or permitting the sounding of
any electronically amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, whistle or
similar device, intended for non-emergency purposes, from any place, for more
than ten consecutive seconds in any hourly period. Houses of religious worship
shall be exempt from the operation of this provision.
   F.    Noises By Animals. No person shall permit any animal that is kept or
maintained upon any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such person to
permit such animal to emit any noise, sound, or cry which interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property by any individual.
   G.   Lawn Maintenance Equipment. The use or operation of any powered lawn
maintenance equipment between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and sunrise
or allowing the use of such equipment to blow leaves, dirt and other debris off
sidewalks, driveways, lawns and other surfaces.
   H.   Commercial Establishments Adjacent to Residential Neighborhoods.
Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, continuous,
repeated or sustained noise from the premises of any commercial establishment
which is adjacent to one or more residential dwelling units, including any
outdoor area under the control of the establishment, between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and sunrise that is plainly audible from the residential
dwelling unit's property line.
   I.    Loud Parties Or Gatherings. Generating any noise from a party, event
or other gathering of people on private property (whether from a home, a
commercial business or any other location in the city) that is determined by an
enforcement officer to constitute a threat to public peace, health and safety
or a violation of this code or state law due to the magnitude of the crowd, the
volume of noise, the level of disturbance to the surrounding neighborhood,
unruly behavior, excessive traffic or destruction of property generated by the
party or gathering.
   J.   Tree Removal Or Trimming Services. The trimming or removing of trees or
vegetation by the property owner or a commercial service using any electrical
or gas-powered machine between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00 p.m.) and
sunrise.
   K.   Operating Off-Road Motor Vehicles On Private Property. Operating an
off-road motor vehicle on private property located within one thousand (1,000)
feet of a residence not owned by the operator of the motor vehicle at any hour
of the day or night.
   L.   Operating Off-Road Motor Vehicles On Public Or Private Streets.
Operating an off-road motor vehicle on any public or private street at any hour
of the day or night, unless said motor vehicle is legally licensed and tagged
to operate on public streets.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
6-9-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Civil Emergency. The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting
persons to the existence of an emergency or the emission of sound in the
performance of emergency work. For the purposes of this section, "emergency"
means a condition that constitutes an immediate threat to public safety, health
and welfare or to property.
   B.   Warning Devices. Warning devices necessary for the protection of public
safety as for example, police, fire and ambulance sirens and train horns.
   C.   Construction Activities, Commercial Tree Removal or Trimming Services -
Special Circumstances. The provisions of section 6-10-4 do not apply to any
person who performs construction, repair, earthmoving work, excavation or
commercial tree trimming and removal services if:
      1.   The work to be done is necessary to protect or promote public safety
or welfare or is otherwise in the public interest; or
      2.   Hardship caused by unreasonable delay due to weather would result
from the interruption of work thereof during the hours specified in section 6-
10-4. The person doing such construction, repair, excavation, or commercial
tree trimming and removal shall obtain a revocable permit from the building
official prior to and before the commencement of any such work.
   D.   Outdoor Activities. Permitted activities conducted on public parks and
playgrounds, licensed and approved child day care facilities, and public or
private school grounds, including but not limited to school athletic and school
entertainment events.
   E.   Outdoor Gatherings, Performances, Shows and Sporting Events. Provided
such events are conducted pursuant to a permit issued by the city or on city or
school owned property.
   F.   Mechanical Equipment. Properly maintained HVAC units, refrigeration
units, pool/hot tub motors and exhaust fans required by the building code.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
6-9-6: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
A violation of any part of this chapter shall be considered a misdemeanor
offense. The penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of two hundred dollars
($200) plus any court costs. The penalty for a second or subsequent offense
which occurs within sixty (60) days of a previous violation of this chapter
shall be a fine of five hundred dollars ($500) plus any court costs. The
remedies set forth in this chapter are not exclusive and may be used in
addition to those set forth elsewhere in this code or by law. Nothing in this
chapter shall preclude the city from seeking to obtain voluntary compliance by
way of warning, notice, or informational materials.
(Ord. 6338, 12-11-2023)
TITLE 7
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of State Misdemeanor Statutes; Violations
7-1-2: Specific State Statutes Adopted By Reference
7-1-3: False Alarms
7-1-4: Garage Sales; Limitations
7-1-5: Drilling For Oil And Gas; Mining For Coal
7-1-6: Begging Prohibited
7-1-7: Public Meetings In Streets Prohibited
7-1-8: Loitering, Obstructing Passage On Streets
7-1-9: Loud Noise From Operation Of Mechanical Devices
7-1-10: Conduct Near Schools
7-1-11: Weapons
7-1-12: Bow Hunting
7-1-13: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
7-1-14: Trespass
7-1-15: False Statements And Evidence Furnished To Police
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE MISDEMEANOR STATUTES; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Adoption: All misdemeanor offenses and any amendment thereof contained
in the Oklahoma Statutes, including, but not limited to, title 21, are hereby
adopted and included herein by reference and made a part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
   B.   Violations: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any
person to commit an act or acts which constitute misdemeanors pursuant to the
Oklahoma Statutes, and any amendments thereof. The municipal court shall have
full authority to hear and sentence on all such violations of the law.
   C.   Conflicts: In the event of conflict between elements of the offenses
specifically set forth in the code and the state statutes adopted by reference,
prosecutions will be conducted under the state statutes and any amendments
thereof adopted by reference.
   D.   Penalty: In no event shall fines or incarceration exceed the
jurisdictional limits imposed by the Oklahoma legislature on the Ponca City
municipal court. (1980 Code § 22-180; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-2: SPECIFIC STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The following specific state statutes are hereby adopted by reference,
excepting the punishment, which shall not exceed the jurisdictional limits
imposed by the Oklahoma legislature on the Ponca City municipal court:
Subject State Statute
Subject                                     State Statute
Attempt to commit offense                   21 OS § 42 et seq.
Aiding in offense                           21 OS § 28
Abandoned airtight containers               21 OS § 1208
Petty larceny                               21 OS §§ 1701, 1704, 1706
Deceit                                      21 OS § 1541.1
Fraud                                       21 OS § 1500 et seq.
Marihuana                                   63 OS §§ 2-101, 2-402
Offenses against public authority            
   Personating an officer                21 OS § 263
   Refusing or failing to assist an offic21 OS § 537
   Resisting officers                    21 OS § 540
   Rescuing prisoners                    21 OS § 521
   Escape of prisoners                   21 OS § 436
Offenses against decency                     
   Indecent dress, exposure              21 OS § 1021
   Insulting language                    21 OS § 1363
   Blasphemy                             21 OS §§ 901, 902, 903
   Prostitution prohibited               21 OS § 1029
   Keeping house of prostitution; pimps  21 OS § 1028
Gambling                                     
   Prohibited                            21 OS § 941 et seq.
   Lotteries and raffles unlawful        21 OS § 1051 et seq.
   Slot machines and punchboards         21 OS §§ 964 et seq., 972
Offenses against the peace                   
   Assault                               21 OS § 641
   Battery                               21 OS § 642
   Carrying weapons                      21 OS § 1272
   Discharging firearms                  21 OS § 1364
   Throwing or shooting objects at       21 OS § 1364
      persons or property               
   Unlawful assembly prohibited          21 OS § 1314 et seq.
   Disturbing the peace of others        21 OS § 1362
   Disturbing religious worship          21 OS § 915
   Disturbing public assembly            21 OS § 1361
   Disturbance by loud or unusual noise  21 OS § 1362
    or abusive, violent, obscene, profane 
    or threatening language, or fighting  
Offenses against property                    
   Molesting automobiles, other vehicles 21 OS § 1787
   Malicious mischief, vandalism         21 OS § 1751 et seq.
   Unlawful intrusion upon land          21 OS § 1353
 
(2003 Code)
7-1-3: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Definitions; Duties Of Responders; Duties Of Alarm Users:
The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this section, shall have
the meanings as ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
      1.   Alarm Signal; Signals: "Alarm signal or signals" means the
activation of an alarm system that requests a response, by the police
department or the fire department, or by activating an audible alarm,
loudspeaker or bell.
      2.   Alarm System:
         a.   "Alarm system" means a burglary alarm system, robbery alarm
system, or automatic fire alarm system.
         b.   "Alarm system" does not include:
            (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle is
permanently located at a site; or
            (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises
that does not have a sounding device which can be heard on the exterior of the
alarm site.
      3.   Alarm System Contractor:
         a.   "Alarm system contractor" means:
            (1)   A person engaged in installing, maintaining, monitoring,
altering, or servicing alarm systems; or
            (2)   An agency that furnishes the services of a person engaged in
installing, maintaining, monitoring, altering, or servicing alarm systems.
         b.   "Alarm system contractor" does not include a person who only
sells or manufactures alarm devices, unless that person services, installs
monitors, or responds to alarm systems at protected premises.
      4.   Alarm System With Automatic Dialing System: Any device or
combination of devices that will automatically upon activation either
mechanically, electronically, or by any other means, initiate a telephonic,
recorded or programmed message to a preselected telephone number.
      5.   Alarm User:
         a.   "Alarm user" means a person in control of an alarm system within,
on, or surrounding any building, structure facility or site.
         b.   "Alarm user" includes the owner or lessee of an alarm system.
      6.   Defective Alarm System:
         a.   Presumption: A "defective alarm system" means any system
generating more than four (4) "false alarms", as defined, in any six (6) month
period, or any system, except a financial institution with an Underwriters
Laboratory approved audible alarm, activating an audible alarm, loud speaker or
bell that does not automatically reset and silence itself within thirty (30)
minutes of activation.
         b.   Notice Of Condition: A police officer or fire response officer
who answers a false alarm shall provide written notice to the alarm user of the
defective condition stating the number of false alarms activated during the
designated period and whether or not the alarm system is being placed on
defective status.
         c.   Actions By Alarm User: Upon notice from the appropriate police
department or fire department representative, an alarm user who has a defective
alarm system shall:
            (1)   Have the system inspected within thirty (30) days by an alarm
system contractor or alarm user, if qualified; and
            (2)   Within fifteen (15) days of the inspection file a written
report with the police department or fire department.
         d.   Report: The report shall contain:
            (1)   The results of the alarm system contractor's or alarm user's
inspection.
            (2)   The probable cause of the false alarms.
            (3)   Actions taken or recommendations for eliminating the false
alarms.
            (4)   Upon receipt of a report establishing that appropriate
measures have been taken to eliminate false alarms, the chief of police or his
designee, or the fire chief or his designee may remove the alarm system from
defective status.
            (5)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit enforcement of
violations concerning operation of a defective alarm system between the time
that a notice of condition is issued and an alarm system is removed from
defective status.
      7.   False Alarm:
         a.   "False alarm" means any request for immediate assistance by the
police department or fire department, regardless of cause, that is not in
response to an actual emergency situation or threatened suggested criminal
activity.
         b.   "False alarm" includes:
            (1)   Negligently or accidentally activated signals; and
            (2)   Signals that are the result of faulty, malfunctioning, or
improperly installed or maintained equipment; and
            (3)   Signals that are purposely activated to summon the police
department or the fire department in a nonemergency situation.
         c.   "False alarm" does not include:
            (1)   Signals activated by unusually severe weather conditions or
other causes beyond the control of the alarm user; or
            (2)   Signals activated during the initial sixty (60) day period
following new installation.
         d.   An alarm system that is activated a second time within a twelve
(12) hour period when the premises are unoccupied shall be deemed one false
alarm if:
            (1)   Access to the building is provided to the alarm system
contractor; and
            (2)   An alarm system contractor or an employee of an alarm system
contractor responds.
         e.   Failure to comply with subsection A7d of this section shall
result in each subsequent alarm being counted as a false alarm.
      8.   Police Department: "Police department" means the Ponca City police
department.
      9.   Fire Department: "Fire department" means Ponca City fire department.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful and an offense punishable under
the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court for:
      1.   Intentional Activation Of Alarm System: An alarm user to wilfully
and knowingly activate an alarm signal for a nonemergency situation.
      2.   Operating Defective Alarm System:
         a.   An alarm user to wilfully and knowingly continue to use a
defective alarm system after receiving a notice of such condition and that the
alarm system was placed on defective status. Without complying with user's
duties as specified in subsection A6c and A6d of this section.
         b.   Each false alarm activation, following being placed on defective
status, is a separate violation.
      3.   Operating Alarm System With Automatic Telephone Dialing System: An
alarm user, any person, company, or other entity to use or operate, attempt to
use or operate, or arrange, adjust, program or otherwise provide or install any
device or combination of devices that will automatically, upon activation
either mechanically, electronically, or by any other means, initiate a
telephonic, recorded or programmed message to the emergency number 911 or any
telephone number assigned to the police department or the fire department.
      4.   Making False Reports Of Crime, Injury, Fire Or Other Emergency: Any
person to intentionally and knowingly communicate a false fire alarm, false
crime report or false notice of injury, or activate an automatic apparatus
which transmits the same or in any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the
fire department, the police department or a dispatcher for the same, or
employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm, false report of a crime or
an injury, or to knowingly cause the fire department, police department, or its
officers or employees to make a useless dispatch of fire, ambulance or police
personnel or equipment by reason of such information. (Ord. 5965, 1-11-2002)
7-1-4: GARAGE SALES; LIMITATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow to be conducted more
than one residential garage, yard, or rummage sale of used personal and
household goods, on property zoned as residential within six (6) months of any
other such sale at the same location. Any such sale shall not exceed three (3)
days in length. Any violation hereof shall be a public offense subject to the
general jurisdiction of the municipal court. (Ord. 5931, 5-22-2000)
7-1-5: DRILLING FOR OIL AND GAS; MINING FOR COAL:
   A.   Oil And Gas; Permit Required: The drilling and production of oil and
gas within the city limits is permitted subject to issuance of a permit
therefor by the board of commissioners which takes into account the reasonable
needs of the community adjacent to the drilling location.
   B.   Coal Mining Prohibited: The mining of coal within the limits of the
city is prohibited. (Ord. 5974, 5-28-2002)
7-1-6: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to beg alms from any person, organization,
or agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1980 Code § 22-5)
7-1-7: PUBLIC MEETINGS IN STREETS PROHIBITED:
In the interests of public safety, and to aid in the control of traffic, public
meetings in the streets of the city are hereby prohibited, except as provided
by section
7-4-2 of this title. (1980 Code § 22-103; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-8: LOITERING, OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE ON STREETS:
   A.   Violation Deemed Nuisance 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to obstruct passage on a street or sidewalk or in front of any store or
place of business or upon any parking lot in such a manner as to be a nuisance
and to refuse or neglect to move on when directed by a police officer.
   B.   Definition: A "nuisance" is doing an act, or omitting to perform a
duty, which act or omission either:
      1.   First: Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others.
      2.   Second: Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct
or renders dangerous for passage on any street, sidewalk, highway or parking
lot.
      3.   Third: In any way renders other persons insecure in life or use of
property.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any person who shall violate any provision of
this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 22-104; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 1 of this code for nuisances.
7-1-9: LOUD NOISE FROM OPERATION OF MECHANICAL DEVICES 1 :
   A.   Mechanical Devices; Loud Music: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace and quietude of any part of the city by operating, having
operated or permitting to be operated any automobile, contrivance, machinery or
sound amplifying system in such a manner as to emit loud noise, loud sounds or
loud music.
   B.   Jake Brakes:
      1.   For the purpose of this section, use of a compression release type
engine brake or "jake brake" shall be defined as a device which when activated
retards one or more pistons on the engine of the motor vehicle in order to
assist the motor vehicle in braking, and in the process of doing so creates a
loud and offensive noise from the motor vehicle when inadequately or improperly
muffled.
      2.   It shall be unlawful, except to avert imminent danger, for any
person to use compression release type engine brakes, commonly known as "jake
brakes", unless the blow down from the compression release and the exhaust of
any internal combustion engine is discharged through an appropriate muffler
system before entering the ambient air. (Ord. 5920, 12-13-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 1362.
7-1-10: CONDUCT NEAR SCHOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following conduct
or acts around any of the schools or school grounds or streets and alleys
adjacent to said schools in the city:
   A.   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school or employees thereof.
   B.   Any conduct that would disturb the orderly conduct of the school.
   C.   Annoy or molest any student or employee of the school.
   D.   Lewd or wanton conduct.
   E.   Move or park any vehicle in the vicinity of any school for the purpose
of annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school. (1980 Code §
22-112)
7-1-11: WEAPONS 1 :
   A.   Illegal Possession; Penalty; Confiscation: In addition to the penalty
otherwise provided for the illegal possession of a weapon, the judge of the
municipal court may order and adjudge any weapon or article found concealed on
any person in violation of 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1272 as an instrument
used in violation of the public safety and in the furtherance of a nuisance,
and may order same to be destroyed by the chief of police in case said articles
have no particular value; but if same may have any particular value for a
lawful purpose, it may be ordered by said judge to be held for a period of six
(6) months by the chief of police, and after giving all persons claiming an
interest therein, if such persons are known to the chief of police, notice in
writing for a period of not less than five (5), nor more than fifteen (15)
days, such article may be sold after six (6) months from the date of the first
of such notices; and the proceeds therefor shall be turned over to the finance
director the same as a fine or forfeiture, and the chief of police shall make
due report to the city clerk of all articles sold, and the proceeds from such
sale. (1980 Code § 22-128; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Discharging Firearms, Air Guns: It is unlawful for any person to
discharge a firearm in the city except when doing so in the line of duty, when
doing so in defense of oneself, of another person or of property or on firing
ranges existing as of the date of the ordinance codified herein or when
otherwise authorized by this code or any law or ordinance. It is unlawful to
discharge an air rifle, BB gun, pellet gun or slingshot in the city. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed guilty of an
offense subject to fine and/or within the jurisdictional limits of the
municipal court. (Ord. 6076, 3-24-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 32 of the city charter.
7-1-12: BOW HUNTING:
   A.   Prohibition: Bow hunting, whether by traditional archery equipment
consisting of a bow and arrow or by crossbow, of animal or fowl within the city
is hereby prohibited. Likewise, occupancy of a blind, stand, tree stand or tree
in possession of archery equipment or crossbow is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Violation: Violation hereof shall be an offense punishable consistent
with the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 5971, 4-22-2002)
7-1-13: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Unlawfully Using Services: It shall be unlawful for any person to
connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe,
line, wire or other conductor carrying gas, water or electricity, and belonging
to a public utility (whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as
to enable him to consume or use the gas, water or electricity without it
passing through the meter, or in any other way so as to evade payment therefor.
It shall further be unlawful for any person to connect to and receive cable
service without proper authority and without paying for such service.
   B.   Tampering With Systems: It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or any other part
of any public utility, including telegraph and telephone systems and cable
service. (1980 Code § 22-148; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-14: TRESPASS:
   A.   Entry: Whoever shall wilfully or maliciously enter upon the property of
another after being expressly forbidden to do so, or without permission by the
owner or lawful occupant thereof, or who remains upon the property of another
after being forbidden to remain by the owner or lawful occupant thereof, shall
be deemed guilty of trespass and violation of this section.
   B.   Theft Or Damage: Whoever shall wilfully or maliciously enter upon the
property of another and therein commit or attempt to commit waste, theft or
damage, shall be deemed guilty of trespass and violation of this code.
   C.   Posting Sign: For purposes of this section, "posted" means exhibiting a
sign to read as follows:
PROPERTY RESTRICTED
POSTED - KEEP OUT
KEEP OUT
NO TRESPASSING
or similar signs which are displayed. Property that is fenced or not fenced
must have such signs placed conspicuously and at all places where entry to the
property is normally expected.
   D.   Exception: Provided, that this provision shall not apply to registered
land surveyors, registered professional engineers, utility service and public
service employees for performance of their professional services.
   E.   Violation: Provided further, that anyone who wilfully or maliciously
enters upon the property of another and therein commits or attempts to commit
waste, theft or damage, shall be deemed guilty of trespass and violation of
this section. (1980 Code § 22-150)
7-1-15: FALSE STATEMENTS AND EVIDENCE FURNISHED TO POLICE:
Any person who destroys, alters, conceals, or disguises physical evidence,
plants any evidence or furnishes any information or imparts any information,
knowing such information is false, which impedes any officer in the performance
of his/her duties or which is intended to misinform any officer or which is
intended to prevent the apprehension or obstruct the prosecution or defense of
any person, is guilty of an offense punishable within the jurisdictional limits
of the municipal court. (Ord. 6000, 5-24-2004)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
ARTICLE A. CURFEW AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Purpose
7-2A-2: Definitions
7-2A-3: Offenses
7-2A-4: Encouraging Minor To Commit Offenses
7-2A-5: Defenses
7-2A-6: Enforcement
7-2A-7: Failure Of Adult To Produce Minor For Court
7-2A-8: Penalties
7-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to curb the increasing problem of juvenile
crime; to educate and reform juvenile offenders; to punish juvenile offenders;
and to create an environment whereby adults and juveniles take responsibility
for the actions of juveniles. It is further intended by this chapter to
continue to hold neglectful or careless parents to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall not be
a defense to the committing of any violation of any offense contained in this
chapter that a parent, guardian or any other person whose responsibility it is
to exercise control over a minor, was completely unaware or indifferent to the
activities, conduct or whereabouts of such minor. (1980 Code § 22-95)
7-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CURFEW HOURS: A. Curfew hours for juveniles fifteen (15) to eighteen (18) years
means:
11:00 P.M. Sunday through 6:00 A.M. Monday
11:00 P.M. Monday through 6:00 A.M. Tuesday
11:00 P.M. Tuesday through 6:00 A.M. Wednesday
11:00 P.M. Wednesday through 6:00 A.M. Thursday
11:00 P.M. Thursday through 6:00 A.M. Friday
12:01 A.M. Saturday through 6:00 A.M. Saturday
12:01 A.M. Sunday through 6:00 A.M. Sunday
Provided, during the time period from Memorial Day through Labor Day of each
year, curfew for the above ages of juveniles shall commence at 12:01 A.M. and
terminate at 6:00 A.M. of each day.
   B.   Curfew hours for juvenile less than fifteen (15) years of age means:
10:30 P.M. each day through 6:00 A.M. the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any publicly or privately owned place of business to which the
public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement,
entertainment, or youth activities center.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a juvenile; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by a
court.
IN LOCO PARENTIS: One who acts in the place of a parent; instead of a parent;
charged, factitiously with a parent's rights, duties and responsibilities.
JUVENILE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
KNOWINGLY PERMIT: The parent, other responsible adult and/or operator as
defined herein is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the curfew
hours or that said person by exercise of reasonable care would have known that
the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and retail establishments.
REMAIN: A. To linger or stay; or
   B.   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
RESPONSIBLE ADULT: Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent and/or
temporary care and/or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile.
   B.   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile.
   C.   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by order
of a court.
   D.   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care and/or custody
of a juvenile at the request of or on behalf of a parent, guardian, loco
parentis or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court.
Care and/or custody shall not include dating or social activities. (1980 Code §
22-95)
7-2A-3: OFFENSES:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A.   A juvenile to be or remain in any public place or on the premises of
any establishment within the corporate limits of the city during curfew hours.
   B.   Any parent and/or other adult responsible for a juvenile to knowingly
permit or allow the juvenile to remain in a public place or on the premises of
an establishment within the corporate limits of the city during curfew hours.
   C.   Any parent or guardian who fails to control a minor that is under the
parent's supervision, after notification of a prior offense committed by the
minor, by failing to prevent the minor from committing the same offense within
one year of the date the minor committed the first offense.
   D.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment to knowingly
permit or allow a juvenile to remain upon the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours. (1980 Code § 22-96)
7-2A-4: ENCOURAGING MINOR TO COMMIT OFFENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully aid, abet, allow,
encourage or, by omission of a duty, encourage or assist a minor to commit any
municipal, state or federal offense. (1980 Code § 22-97)
7-2A-5: DEFENSES:
   A.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense for all parties to prosecution
under sections
7-2A-3 and
7-2A-4 of this article that the juvenile was at the time in question:
      1.   Accompanied by and in the actual physical presence of the juvenile's
parent or responsible adult;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the juvenile's parent or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the juvenile's presence;
      7.   Attending, going to or returning home, without any detour or stop,
from an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised
by adults, or an event sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly or other rights protected by the United States or the
Oklahoma constitution; or
      9.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   B.   Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution under sections
7-2A-3 and
7-2A-4 of this article that the owner, operator, or employee of an
establishment promptly notified the police department that a juvenile was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to
leave. (1980 Code § 22-98)
7-2A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this article, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this article unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in section
7-2A-5 of this article is present. (1980 Code § 22-99)
7-2A-7: FAILURE OF ADULT TO PRODUCE MINOR FOR COURT:
Any adult who fails to produce a minor child for court after having secured the
minor child's release from custody by signing a promise to bring said child to
court, at the time fixed therefor, is guilty of an offense punishable under the
general penal provisions of this code 1 . (Ord. 5932, 5-22-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
7-2A-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty; Community Service Work: A person who violates a provision of
this chapter is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense,
upon conviction, is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The court may require community service work prescribed by
the court in lieu of a fine if the product of multiplying the number of minimum
hours of community service work by the prevailing wage does not result in a
number which exceeds the maximum fine authorized by law.
   B.   Court Jurisdiction: The municipal court's jurisdiction over a juvenile
who violates section
7-2A-3 of this article shall be expressly subject to 10 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7303-1.2(E), as the same may from time to time be amended. (1980 Code §
22-100; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE B. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
7-2B-1: Definitions
7-2B-2: Selling Or Furnishing Tobacco Products To Minors
7-2B-3: Purchasing, Accepting Or Possessing Tobacco Products
7-2B-4: Furnishing Or Distributing Tobacco Product Samples
7-2B-5: Selling Cigarettes In Original, Sealed Package
7-2B-6: Violation; Penalty
7-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
PERSON:   Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
          association, however formed.
          A driver’s license, license for identification only, or other generally
PROOF OF  accepted means of identification, that describes the individual as
AGE:      twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
          likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE:   A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost for the
          purpose of promoting the product.
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public place.
TOBACCO   Any product that contains tobacco, clove, herbal, alternative smoking
PRODUCT:  products or vapor producing products. (2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6318, 11-28-
          2022)
 
7-2B-2: SELLING OR FURNISHING TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
   A.   Selling Or Furnishing: It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish
in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is under twenty-one
(21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of
any such person. Provided, however, it shall not be unlawful for any employee
under twenty-one (21) years of age to handle such products when required in the
performance of the employee’s duties.
   B.   Demand Proof Of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   C.   Employee Responsibility: If the sale is made by an employee of the
owner of a store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee
shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   D.   Separate Entities; Liability: For purposes of determining the liability
of a person controlling franchises or business operations in multiple locations
for any violation of subsection A or B of this section, each individual
franchise or business location shall be deemed a separate entity. (2003 Code;
amd. Ord. 6318, 11-28-2022)
7-2B-3: PURCHASING, ACCEPTING OR POSSESSING TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It is unlawful for a person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age to
purchase, or accept receipt of, or have in his/her possession a tobacco
product, or to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which
is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. Provided, however, it shall not be
unlawful for such a person to handle such tobacco product when required in the
performance of such person’s duties. (2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6318, 11-28-2022)
7-2B-4: FURNISHING OR DISTRIBUTING TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   Distributing To Minor: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute tobacco product samples to any person under twenty-one (21) years of
age.
   B.   Distributing Near School: Notwithstanding subsections A of this
section, no person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet (300') of any
playground, school, or other facility, when the facility is being used
primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age. (2003 Code; amd. Ord.
6318, 11-28-2022)
7-2B-5: SELLING CIGARETTES IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the original, sealed
package in which they were placed by the manufacturer. (2003 Code; amd. Ord.
6318, 11-28-2022)
7-2B-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found to be in violation of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. The penalty for the first offense shall be a fine of no more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The penalty for the second or subsequent
offence within sixty (60) days of an individual’s previous offense in violation
of this chapter shall be fined of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6318, 11-28-2022; Ord. 6336, 10-23-2023)
ARTICLE C. PROHIBITION OF SALE OR POSSESSION OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT AND
INDELIBLE MARKERS
SECTION:
7-2C-1: Definitions
7-2C-2: Sale To Minors
7-2C-3: Storage And Display
7-2C-4: Prohibition On Possession
7-2C-1: DEFINITIONS 1 :
BONA FIDE EVIDENCE: A driver's license, state or federal issued identification
card, passport or other commonly accepted means of identification that
describes the individual as at least eighteen (18) years of age and contains a
photograph of the individual and on its face appears valid.
BROAD TIPPED INDELIBLE MARKER: A felt tipped marker or similar device with a
tip of greater than one-half inch (1/2") in width which if applied to a surface
will deposit paint, ink or stain which is difficult to remove, wash away, or
blot out.
MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
SPRAY PAINT: Paint or other chemical contained in an aerosol can which if
sprayed onto a surface will deposit paint, ink or stain which is difficult to
remove, wash away, or blot out; or which otherwise permanently damages the
surface. (Ord. 6094, 2-23-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. This section shall be effective May 1, 2009.
7-2C-2: SALE TO MINORS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   No person shall sell to a minor and no minor shall buy any spray
paint or broad tipped indelible marker unless such minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian.
      2.   No person shall sell or offer for sale any spray paint or broad
tipped indelible marker to any purchaser who could be a minor without requiring
the purchaser to provide bona fide evidence of majority and identity.
   B.   Defense: It shall be a defense to prosecution that a seller or
transferor demanded and was shown bona fide evidence that the purchaser/
transferee was of the age of majority and that the seller or transferor acted
reasonably in reliance on that evidence.
   C.   Signage: All persons who own, manage or operate a place of business
wherein spray paint or broad tipped indelible markers are sold shall
conspicuously post at the place of display of the articles and at the place of
sale (cash register) a sign in letters at least one-half inch (1/2") in height
which states, "Spray Paint (and/or Indelible Markers) Shall Not Be Sold To
Minors".
   D.   Creation Of Graffiti: It shall be a violation of this code for any
person to sell, give, trade, or otherwise provide to any minor any spray paint
or broad tipped indelible marker used in the actual application of graffiti or
defacement of property. This subsection does not apply to the transfer of an
aerosol spray paint container or broad tipped indelible marker from a parent to
child, guardian to ward, employer to employee, teacher to student or in any
other similar relationship when such transfer is for a lawful purpose. (Ord.
6094, 2-23-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. This section shall be effective May 1, 2009.
7-2C-3: STORAGE AND DISPLAY 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, conducts, operates or
manages a business, where aerosol spray paint containers or broad tipped
indelible markers are sold, or any person who sells or offers for sale aerosol
spray paint containers or broad tipped indelible markers, to store or display,
or cause to be stored or displayed, such aerosol spray paint containers or
broad tipped indelible markers in an area that is accessible to the public
without employee assistance in the regular course of business pending legal
sale or other disposition.
   B.   Nothing herein shall preclude the storage or display of aerosol spray
paint containers or broad tipped indelible markers in an area viewable by the
public so long as such items are not accessible to the public without employee
assistance. (Ord. 6094, 2-23-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. This section shall be effective September 1, 2009.
7-2C-4: PROHIBITION ON POSSESSION:
Effective May 1, 2009, no minor may possess an aerosol spray paint container or
broad tipped indelible marker on any public property or on any private
property, unless the person having control of the private property consented to
the presence of the spray paint or marker, and unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian, employer, teacher or other adult in any similar relationship and such
possession is for a lawful purpose. (Ord. 6094, 2-23-2009)
ARTICLE D. TRUANCY
SECTION:
7-2D-1: Purpose
7-2D-2: Definitions
7-2D-3: Neglect Or Refuse To Compel Child To Attend School
7-2D-4: Truancy Of A Minor
7-2D-5: Attendance Records Admissible
7-2D-6: Temporary Detention Of Truant Children
7-2D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to protect and provide for the education,
safety, and well-being of the residents of the City of Ponca City by ensuring
school attendance of minors. (Ord. 6260, 10-22-2018)
7-2D-2: DEFINITIONS:
GUARDIAN: A parent, legal guardian, or other person having legal custody of a
minor.
MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
SCHOOL: A facility operated by an entity acting as an institution of learning
and which is State approved to educate minors. (Ord. 6260, 10-22-2018)
7-2D-3: NEGLECT OR REFUSE TO COMPEL CHILD TO ATTEND SCHOOL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a guardian having custody of a child who is
over the age of five (5) years and under the age of eighteen (18) years to
neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to attend and comply with the
rules of a public, private, or other school, unless some other means of
education are provided for the full term the public schools of the district are
in session or the child is excused as provided in this section, provided that
the guardian of a five (5) year old child may notify the School District
Superintendent and excuse such child from kindergarten attendance until the
school year following the child's sixth (6th) birthday.
   B.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a separate offense for
each day during which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each
offense, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in 70
Oklahoma Statutes section 10-105.
   C.   The court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the guardian any conditions as the
court considers necessary to obtain compliance with school attendance
requirements. The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
      2.   Attending meetings with school officials;
      3.   Taking the child to school;
      4.   Taking the child to the bus stop;
      5.   Attending school with the child;
      6.   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
and following the recommendations of the evaluator;
      7.   Taking the child for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
evaluation and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused
by the court.
   D.   If a guardian of a child has received a warning notice under 70
Oklahoma Statutes section 10-106 and the guardian continues in his or her
failure to comply with the child's attendance requirements after five (5) days
following said warning, each additional day of non-compliance is a separate
offense and is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 6260, 10-22-2018)
7-2D-4: TRUANCY OF A MINOR:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of twelve (12)
years and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not finished four
(4) years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with
the rules of some public, private, or other school, or receive an education by
other means for the full term the schools in the district are in session.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of twelve (12)
years and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not finished four
(4) years of high school work, to refuse to attend their scheduled classes
while present at the school. This includes loitering in the hallways,
restrooms, or other common areas located at or adjacent to the school.
   C.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a separate offense for
each day during which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each
offense, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   D.   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this section:
      1.   If the child is prevented from attending school by reason of mental
or physical disability as determined by the district Board of Education; or
      2.   If the child has been excused due to emergency by the principal
teacher of the school where the child is enrolled; or
      3.   If the child has attained his or her sixteenth birthday and has been
excused under 70 Oklahoma Statutes section 10-105 (B)(3), (B)(4), or (B)(5); or
      4.   If the child has submitted a written request to the principal or to
the school district in order to observe holy days or to attend a military
funeral/honors ceremony (including travel times). (Ord. 6260, 10-22-2018)
7-2D-5: ATTENDANCE RECORDS ADMISSIBLE:
At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of this
article, the attendance records of the minor may be presented in court by any
authorized employee of the school district or the assigned school resource
officer for that school. (Ord. 6260, 10-22-2018)
7-2D-6: TEMPORARY DETENTION OF TRUANT CHILDREN:
   A.   An attendance officer, any school administrator, any designee of the
school administrator who is employed by the school, or any peace officer may
temporarily detain and assume temporary custody of any minor subject to
compulsory full-time education, during hours in which school is actually in
session, who is found to be both away from the home of such minor and who is
absent from school without lawful excuse, but is within the school district or
the City limits that such attendance officer, peace officer, or school official
serves. Provided that such minor shall not include children being home schooled
pursuant to title 70, section 10-105 of the Oklahoma Statutes. This article
shall not authorize detention by school officials unless the school has also
approved the temporary detention and custody pursuant to this section.
   B.   Any person temporarily detaining and assuming temporary custody of a
minor pursuant to this section shall immediately deliver the child either to
the guardian or to the school from which the child is absent without valid
excuse.
   C.   The temporary custody or detention provided by this section shall be
utilized as a means of reforming and returning the truant students to school
and shall not be used as a pretext for investigating criminal matters. The
temporary custody or detention herein provided is a severely limited type of
detention and is not justified unless there are specific facts causing an
attendance officer, school administrator, or designee of the school
administrator who is employed by the school, or any peace officer or any other
authorized person to reasonably suspect that a truancy violation is occurring
and that the person the officer intends to detain is a truant. (Ord. 6260, 10-
22-2018)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Dog And Cat Regulations
7-3-2-1: Dogs And Cats; Vaccination, License, Fee
7-3-2-2: Spay And Neuter Licensing
7-3-3: Running At Large; Apprehension
7-3-4: Animal Bite
7-3-5: Vicious Animals
7-3-6: Nuisances
7-3-7: Inhumane Treatment
7-3-8: Impoundment; Reclamation; Disposition
7-3-9: Rabies Control
7-3-10: Keeping Animals, Regulations
7-3-11: Inspection Of Area Where Animals Kept
7-3-12: Adoption Regulations
7-3-13: Lester And Mary Cann Memorial Gardens; Bird Sanctuary
7-3-14: Violations; Citations; Impoundment
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 6, "Pet Shops, Catteries And Kennels", of this
  code.
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ANIMAL A NUISANCE: An animal is a nuisance when, by loud, frequent or habitual
barking, howling, yelping or other noise or action, it disturbs any person or
neighborhood within the city limits. Any animal which scratches or digs into
any flowerbed, garden, tilled soil, shrubbery and, in so doing, injures the
same; or which habitually prowls around or over any premises not the property
of its owner to the annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises; or
which overturns any garbage can or vessel for waste products, or scatters the
contents of same; or an animal which chases or kills any fowl or animal owned
by another is also declared a nuisance. A female dog in season at large is a
nuisance.
ANIMAL BITE: Any contact between the mouth and/or teeth of an animal and a
person or domestic animal which causes any bruise, inflammation, puncture,
tear, rip and/or break in the skin of the victim.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons employed by the city as an
enforcement officer for this chapter.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises officially designated by the city for the purpose
of impounding and caring for all animals found at large in violation of this
chapter.
ANIMALS: All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, such as, but not limited to,
bovine, cattle, horses and other equines, hogs, goats, rabbits, sheep,
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons and other fowl or wild mammals, and
reptiles, fish or birds that have been tamed, domesticated or captivated.
AT LARGE: Any animal shall be deemed "at large" when it is not under restraint.
CATTERY: Any premises, whether operated for pleasure or profit, where there is
being maintained or harbored a total of five (5) or more cats, except
veterinary hospitals.
CONFINED ON THE PREMISES: The condition in which an animal is secured and
physically kept, retained, restricted or contained on and within the premises
of the owner by means of walls, fences or an enclosure, such enclosure being
adequate to contain the animal at all times.
DOG: Any dog, bitch and every other animal of the canine species at the age of
two (2) months or older.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children
and suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures, such as
tethering, which may be taken by the owner or keeper. The enclosure shall be
securely constructed and shall have secure sides, top and bottom and shall be
kept locked. The design and construction shall be adequate and sufficient to
prevent the animal from escaping.
FOWL: Birds of any kind, domestic or wild, which are commonly kept and/or
raised outdoors or in a separate enclosure and not inside a habitation for
humans.
HARBORING: Any person who allows any animal to habitually remain or lodge or to
be fed within his home, store, yard, enclosure or place of business, or any
other premises in which he resides or controls, shall be considered as
"harboring" such animal.
KENNEL: Any premises, whether operated for pleasure or profit, where there is
being maintained or harbored a total of five (5) or more dogs, except
veterinary hospitals.
LIVESTOCK: All animals commonly known and referred to as domesticated farm
animals such as, but not limited to, cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats,
llamas, donkeys and mules.
OWNER: Any person who owns, keeps, harbors, possesses, maintains or has the
care, custody or control of an animal, or any person who is the custodian of a
premises where an animal is kept, possessed, harbored or maintained; or any
person who is the parent or legal guardian of a minor who keeps, possesses,
harbors, maintains or has the care, custody or control of an animal.
RESTRAINT: A. An animal shall be deemed under restraint when:
      1.   It is humanely controlled by a leash held by a competent person; or
      2.   It is securely tethered in a humane manner within the property
limits of its owner or keeper; or
      3.   The animal is confined on the premises of its owner.
   B.   In all cases, restraints shall be sufficient to prevent the animal from
biting, attacking or having physical contact with any person who is on or about
his lawful business, or with unattended small children.
SEVERE OR SEVERELY: Any physical injury to a human or other domestic animal
that results in broken bones, multiple bites, or disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or reconstructive surgery or to cause the death of a
human or another domestic animal.
STRAY: Any animal which does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
UNPROVOKED: That one has been conducting him/herself peacefully and lawfully
without threat to the animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any animal which has a propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack, and severely injure humans or domestic animals without provocation
and such tendency is displayed by the animal through its posture or demeanor
when approached by a person on private or public property. The typical posture
for such a dog may include the combination pictured below:
Additional evidence of viciousness is the making and holding of direct eye
contact while maintaining a threatening posture. Mere territorial behavior,
such as running within its confinement and barking does not, without any other
evidence, constitute a vicious animal.
   B.   Or which bites and inflicts severe injury on a human being or domestic
animal without provocation on private or public property.
   C.   Or any dog or other animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for
the purpose of animal fighting.
   D.   Or any dog or other animal trained for fighting. (1980 Code § 7-1; amd.
Ord. 5972, 5-13-2002; Ord. 5997, 3-12-2004)
7-3-2: DOG AND CAT REGULATIONS:
7-3-2-1: DOGS AND CATS; VACCINATION, LICENSE, FEE 1 :
   A.   Vaccination Certificate Required: It shall be the duty of every person
owning or having control of any dog or cat which is six (6) months old or
older, within the city limits, to procure a vaccination certificate from a
graduate veterinarian showing that the vaccination has been made, by whom and
the date of vaccination; and it shall be the further duty of every person
owning said animal to prevent same from running at large for a period of seven
(7) days after said vaccination.
   B.   License Required; Fee:
      1.   Such owners of a dog or cat six (6) months old or older shall obtain
a license for said animal either from the animal control center or the
veterinarian within five (5) days after said vaccination and pay for the
license such sum as established by resolution of the board of commissioners
from time to time if the animal has been spayed or neutered, or a higher amount
if such animal has not been spayed or neutered, which license shall expire one
year following the issuance.
      2.   If the license is issued by a veterinarian, the veterinarian may
make a claim for his services, not exceeding one dollar ($1.00) for each
license issued by him, at the time he submits funds collected by him to the
city clerk; the amount of said claim shall be paid at that time from the funds
collected from the licensee by said veterinarian.
   C.   Metal Tag: A metal tag shall be procured from the issuer of said
license which shall be attached to the animal and remain attached at all times.
(1980 Code § 7-3; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6086, 6-9-2008, eff. 6-9-2009)
   D.   New Residents: It shall be unlawful for any nonresident or other person
to fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter relative to licensing and
vaccination of animals after thirty (30) days of residency. (1980 Code § 7-4;
amd. Ord. 6086, 6-9-2008, eff. 6-9-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 12 of the city charter.
7-3-2-2: SPAY AND NEUTER LICENSING:
Findings of fact and legislative purpose: Each year in Ponca City, thousands of
dogs and cats within the city are euthanized because they are unwanted, and
data show that the number of dogs and cats that must be euthanized is on the
increase. Furthermore, the overpopulation of stray dogs and cats is a health
and safety risk and disturbs the quiet enjoyment of property within the city,
affecting the quality of life in residential neighborhoods. Overpopulation and
attendant high costs of disposal and enforcement can be significantly reduced
through a spay and neuter program. It is therefore the policy of the city of
Ponca City to encourage and promote through appropriate legislation the spaying
and neutering of dogs and cats as a means of responsible pet ownership.
   A.   Spay Or Neuter Required:
      1.   On or after June 9, 2009, it is unlawful for any person to own,
possess, keep or harbor within the city any dog or cat over the age of six (6)
months that has not been spayed or neutered, except as provided in subsection B
of this section, or if an intact permit has been secured for the animal. A
person who owns, possesses, keeps or harbors an animal is hereby defined to be
the "owner".
      2.   Upon the request of an animal control officer, the owner of any dog
or cat shall furnish written evidence showing the sterilization status of the
animal. A valid rabies vaccination certificate listing the subject animal as
being spayed or neutered shall constitute sufficient proof of sterilization.
      3.   The failure or refusal of any person to comply with the requirements
of this section, unless excepted, shall be unlawful and a public offense
separate and distinct from all other offenses prescribed in this chapter and
shall not for purposes of enforcement, be considered as lesser included to any
other offense herein.
      4.   Violators shall be subject to a fine within the jurisdictional
limits of the municipal court unless a lesser punishment be established by
separate city commission resolution. Fees for licenses or permits shall be as
established by city commission resolution.
   B.   Exceptions From Spay Or Neuter: The owner of a dog or cat shall not be
required to spay or neuter the animal upon compliance with any of the following
exceptions:
      1.   Veterinarian Exemption; Permanent Medical Condition: A written and
signed statement from a local licensed veterinarian stating the animal is
medically unsuited to undergo the sterilization procedure and specifying the
medical grounds therefor will exempt the animal from the neutering requirements
of subsection A of this section.
      2.   Veterinarian Exemption; Temporary Medical Condition: A written and
signed statement from a local licensed veterinarian stating the animal suffers
from a temporary medical condition so that sterilization is unsafe or imprudent
and establishing a prognosis as to a date the animal may be safely neutered
will exempt the animal from the requirements of subsection A of this section
until the prognosis date established therein. Upon expiration of the prognosis
date, the requirements of subsection A of this section become applicable unless
the veterinarian issues a further exemption statement.
      3.   Visiting Animal: The animal is owned, possessed, kept or harbored
within the city for no more than thirty (30) days in any consecutive twelve
(12) month period.
      4.   Service, Law Enforcement, Search And Rescue: Dogs documented as
having been appropriately trained and actually being used as a service dog,
such as a guide dog, hearing dog, assistance dog, seizure alert dog, or social/
therapy dog; by public law enforcement agencies for law enforcement activities;
or search and rescue agencies for search and rescue activities; or such dogs
designated as breeding stock by an appropriate agency or organization approved
by the director of animal control after consultation with knowledgeable
professionals;
      5.   Competition Dogs Or Cats: A competition animal is one that is used
to show, to compete or is designated as breeding stock, and is of a breed
recognized by and registered with the American Kennel Club (AKC), United Kennel
Club (UKC), American Dog Breeders Association (ADBA), or other valid registry
approved by animal control, as listed in the spay and neuter licensing
exception appendix (copies of which shall be available at the city clerk's
office or animal control), and meets one of the following requirements:
         a.   The dog/cat has competed in at least one dog/cat show or sporting
competition sanctioned by a national registry or other registry approved by
animal control, as listed in the spay and neuter licensing exception appendix,
within the last three hundred sixty five (365) days, or
         b.   The dog/cat has earned a conformation, obedience, agility,
carting, herding, protection, rally, sporting, hunting, working or other title
from a purebred dog/cat registry as referenced above or other registry or dog
sport association approved by animal control, as listed in the spay and neuter
licensing exception appendix, or
         c.   The owner of the animal is a member of an approved purebred dog/
cat breed club, which maintains and enforces a code of ethics for dog/cat
breeding that includes restrictions from breeding dogs/cats with genetic
defects and life threatening health problems that commonly threaten the breed
(s), approved by animal control, as listed in the spay and neuter licensing
exception appendix.
      6.   Annual Intact Permit: The owner has an annual intact permit for the
animal in question and is otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Whelping Permit:
      1.   No owner shall cause, allow or suffer any female dog or cat by them
owned, harbored or kept to breed or become pregnant without having a current
whelping permit for said animal. The term "whelping permit" means a written
authorization, issued annually by the department of animal control, giving its
lawful holder permission to breed a specific female dog or a cat and for that
animal to deliver not more than one litter within the twelve (12) month period
encompassed by the permit.
      2.   Each whelping permit shall be issued in the name of the owner and
for a specific named and described female animal and shall be valid for one
year from the date of issuance. A separate permit must be obtained for each
owned female dog or cat. The fee for each permit shall be established by
resolution of the city commission.
      3.   In order to prevent the overbreeding of animals, each permit shall
only permit the whelping of no more than one litter per female dog in any
twelve (12) month period.
      4.   The owner shall cause his/her whelping permit number and the name of
the dame which gave birth to the litter to appear in any advertisement for sale
of dogs or cats born pursuant to said permit.
   D.   Intact Permit:
      1.   It is unlawful for any owner to possess, keep or harbor within the
city any unspayed or nonneutered dog or cat over the age of six (6) months, and
for which the exceptions enumerated in subsection B of this section do not
apply, to fail to obtain an intact permit in his or her name for the specific
animal.
      2.   The city clerk or duly authorized agents of the city shall issue
annual intact permits upon payment of the fee and approval of an application
made for such purpose. The application shall state the name, address and
telephone number of the owner and the name, breed, color, age and sex of the
dog or cat for which the intact permit is obtained, and such other information
as the city clerk may require in order to identify the owner and animal.
Neither the city clerk nor any authorized agent shall issue an intact permit
until the owner presents a certificate showing the dog or cat has a current
rabies vaccination at the time application is made. The applicant shall pay the
intact permit fee at the time of application.
      3.   Upon approval of the application, the city clerk or any authorized
agent shall issue the intact permit in an appropriate form and a uniquely
numbered metallic or plastic tag. An intact permit shall expire one year from
the date of issuance and shall be subject to revocation and nonrenewal as
provided in subsection E of this section.
      4.   An intact permit is not transferable to a new owner of the dog or
cat should ownership of the animal change. The new owner must make application
and permit fee payment as provided in subsection D2 of this section.
      5.   In the event a metallic or plastic tag is lost or destroyed, the
owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of a replacement fee. It
shall be unlawful to use or attempt to use a tag for which a duplicate tag has
been issued.
      6.   It is unlawful to use or transfer an intact permit or tag, or
attempt to use or transfer the same, for or to a dog or cat other than the
animal for which the permit was issued.
   E.   Revocation Or Nonrenewal Of Intact Permit:
      1.   The municipal court judge may revoke the intact permit for a dog or
cat when, during the current permit year, the owner of the animal for which the
permit is issued is convicted, pleads guilty or nolo contendere to more than
one offense of allowing or permitting such dog or cat to run at large in
violation of this code.
      2.   Neither the city clerk nor any authorized agent shall issue or renew
an intact permit for any dog or cat for which an intact permit has been
revoked. The commencement of revocation proceedings shall temporarily stay the
issuance or renewal of an intact permit pending the outcome of such
proceedings.
   F.   Tag To Be Attached To Collar:
      1.   Upon receipt of the intact permit and tag, the owner shall securely
affix the tag to the collar or harness of the dog or cat for which the permit
is issued. The dog or cat shall wear the tag at all times, except when a
veterinarian provides a medical exemption from such wearing.
      2.   No person shall remove or attempt to remove a tag from the collar or
harness of any dog or cat without the owner's consent.
   G.   Roadside, Parking Lot And Flea Market Sales:
      1.   No person shall sell, trade, barter, lease, rent, give away, or
display for a commercial purpose a live dog or cat on a roadside, public right
of way, commercial parking lot, or at an outdoor special sale, swap meet, flea
market, parking lot sale, or similar event.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to a tax exempt nonprofit
organization founded for the purpose of providing humane sanctuary or shelter
for abandoned or unwanted animals. Such 501(c)3 nonprofit documentation must be
posted and visible at all times during animal adoption events, and any animals
adopted out under this subsection must be spayed or neutered prior to adoption
and have proof of such.
   H.   Permit Records: The city clerk or his designee shall keep a register of
all intact permits issued in which shall be entered the name, address and
telephone number of the owner, a description and other identifying information
of the dog or cat so permitted, and the date of issuance and expiration.
   I.   Penalty: It shall be unlawful and a public offense for any owner to
either act or fail to act as required of owners by this section and such person
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 6086, 6-9-2008, eff. 6-9-2009)
7-3-3: RUNNING AT LARGE; APPREHENSION:
   A.   Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for an owner to allow a dog to be at large.
Apprehension of such animal shall not be a prerequisite to violation of this
section.
      2.   Unlicensed dogs at large shall, upon apprehension, be taken by the
animal control officer to the city animal shelter and confined in a humane
manner for a period of not less than seventy two (72) hours and may thereafter
be disposed of in a humane manner if not claimed by their owners.
      3.   Immediately upon impoundment of such animals, the animal control
officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify owners of such dogs or other
animals so impounded. (1980 Code § 7-6)
   B.   Females In Season: It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer to
fail at all times to confine any female dog which is in season in a building or
a secure enclosure, veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, except when on a
lead and under the control of a person. (1980 Code § 7-7)
   C.   Allowing Animal To Be At Large 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person
to allow or permit any animal under his care or control to be at large within
the limits of the city. (1980 Code § 7-10)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11 of the city charter.
7-3-4: ANIMAL BITE:
It shall be unlawful for an owner to allow an animal to attack, bite or
otherwise cause injury to a human or domestic animal without provocation. (1980
Code § 7-8)
7-3-5: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Determination As Vicious Animal; Procedure: An animal control officer
or police officer may make a determination that an animal is vicious:
      1.   Notice To Owner: Upon such determination, the animal control officer
or police officer shall serve notice of the same on the owner, keeper or
occupant of the premises where the animal is kept, which person must be at
least fifteen (15) years of age. Such notice shall contain the applicable
sections of this code so as to inform such owner, keeper or occupant of the
premises where the animal is kept, that the animal has been determined to be
vicious, and sufficient to apprize the owner or keeper or other occupant of
his/her responsibilities because of such finding in ensuring the safety and
well-being of the general public.
      2.   Written Objection By Owner: Such notice shall further give notice to
the owner, keeper or occupant of the premises where the animal is kept that
should such person choose to take issue or object to such determination he/she
shall, within five (5) days of the receipt of the notice, file a written
objection to such determination with the municipal court clerk who shall,
within ten (10) days, docket the same for a hearing before the municipal judge
upon the issue of whether the dog is vicious or not.
      3.   Time Limit For Compliance: Such notice shall further provide that in
the event no hearing is requested by the owner of the animal, then the
determination of the animal control officer shall become final at the
expiration of five (5) days, and the owner shall bring himself/herself into
compliance with subsection B of this section within ten (10) days of service of
notice of the original determination by the animal control officer.
   B.   Owner Responsibility; Confinement, Registration, Insurance,
Destruction: In the event the owner, keeper or occupant of the premises where
the animal is kept does not contest the animal control officer's or the police
officer's determination that the animal is vicious; or in the event, upon
hearing, the municipal judge determines such animal to be vicious, it shall
immediately become the responsibility of the owner to comply with the following
provisions of this subsection B:
      1.   Confinement In Enclosure; Restraint And Muzzle:
         a.    The owner or harborer of a vicious animal shall confine the
animal in an approved enclosure, as set forth in subsection D of this section.
         b.   When it is necessary for the animal to be outside its enclosure
for the purpose of veterinary care or for the sale or disposition of the
animal, it shall be securely muzzled and restrained by leash and be under the
direct control of a person over the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Time Limit For Compliance: The owner or harborer of a vicious animal
shall, within ten (10) days of the determination that the animal is vicious,
comply with the provisions of this subsection B.
      3.   Identification; Tatoo: The owner or harborer of a vicious animal
shall:
         a.   Have the vicious animal tattooed on an inside thigh and have an
identifying micro chip inserted between the top of the dog's shoulder blades at
the withers, by an individual licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
state of Oklahoma.
         b.   Attain from such a veterinarian proof of such identification and
the identification number assigned to the specific dog.
      4.   Registration And Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or
harbor a vicious dog unless said dog has been registered and the registration
is current pursuant to this section. The owner or harborer of a vicious animal
shall:
         a.   Complete a "registration form for vicious animals" and submit the
same to the city clerk. The form shall contain, among other things, the name of
the owner, owner's address, phone number, name of the animal, type of animal,
distinguishing markings including three (3) closeup photographs of the animal
(frontal, right and left sides), veterinarian's proof of tattooing and micro
chip implantation, and such other information as required by the clerk in order
to ensure that the owner and animal are identified and to provide the city with
a means of tracking the whereabouts of the animal and identity of its owner.
The registration form shall be in the form of an affidavit under oath and
signed by the owner of the dog. The owner shall immediately notify the animal
control department of the sale or disposition of a vicious animal and the
person to whom said animal is sold or given and the address of such person.
         b.   Reregister the dog with the city clerk annually.
         c.   Pay a registration fee to the city clerk of fifty dollars
($50.00) for the initial permit for a vicious animal, and the same amount upon
the issuance of a permit for transfer of ownership or annual registration of
such an animal.
      5.   Liability Insurance: Contemporaneously with registration of the
animal, the owner shall submit to the city clerk a certificate verifying that
the owner carries liability insurance which would provide coverage to some
third party in the event of injuries or property damage sustained by the
actions of the vicious animal; or in lieu thereof a deposit of cash or surety
bond in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) which would be held
to indemnify some third party in the event of injuries or property damage. It
shall be the duty of the owner to provide the city clerk additional proof of
continued insurance or renewal of any surety bond by the expiration date of the
policy or bond.
      6.   Permit For Transfer: Prior to selling or transferring ownership or
custody of such a vicious animal, the owner shall inform the successive owner
or keeper that the animal has been determined to be vicious and to secure a
permit for transfer of ownership. A permit for transfer of ownership is
required even if the animal is to be transferred to a location outside the
municipal limits of the city in order to permit tracking of the animal. Such
permit shall contain such pertinent information that the new owner of the dog
may be identified, located and notified of proceedings concerning the dog, and
the new owner or keeper shall execute the permit in the office of the city
clerk. By executing said permit, the successive owner or keeper acknowledges
that they will, within ten (10) days thereof, comply with this code regarding
the keeping of dangerous/vicious animals.
      7.   Destruction Of Animal: In the alternative to complying with the
provisions of this subsection B, the owner or harborer of a vicious animal may
humanely destroy the animal.
   C.   Court Ordered Destruction: The municipal judge shall order an animal to
be destroyed if:
      1.   An animal is determined to be vicious; and
      2.   The owner, keeper or occupant of the premises where the animal is
kept fails to comply with the provisions of subsection B of this section within
ten (10) days of the date of final determination that the animal is vicious; or
      3.   The animal is determined to be vicious and the injuries which the
animal inflicted on the other animal or human causing the animal to be
determined to be vicious were serious and exhibited such a ferocious
disposition that a reasonable person would believe the animal likely to inflict
such damages in the future to other animals or persons which it might
encounter.
   D.   Proper Confinement Required:
      1.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to keep a vicious animal on a chain or
tether outside of an enclosure as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter.
      2.   Requirements: The owner or harborer of a vicious dog shall:
         a.   Inside Premises: When the dog is indoors, secure all means of
egress so that the dog may not exit.
         b.   Outside Premises: When the dog is outside and on the premises of
the owner or harborer, keep such dog confined at all times in a roofed,
securely fenced and locked barricade designed so that the dog may not dig its
way out. The barricade must be at least six feet (6') in height measuring from
the ground with an attached top, and posted with a sign stating "vicious dog"
by both symbol and words, and constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the
barricade with his hand.
         c.   Off Premises: When the dog is off the premises of the owner or
harborer, keep such dog muzzled and securely restrained with a leash not
exceeding three feet (3') in length and under the control of a competent adult
eighteen (18) years of age or older. In the alternative, said vicious dog may
be confined in a locked crate which is constructed of a material of sufficient
strength to prevent escape and posted with a sign stating "vicious dog" by both
symbol and words, and constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the
barricade with his hand.
         d.   In Vehicle: When the dog is in a vehicle or is being transported
in an open truck bed, or other conveyance, such dog shall be confined in a
locked crate or cage which is constructed of a material of sufficient strength
to prevent escape and posted with a sign stating "vicious dog" by both symbol
and words, and constructed so that a child cannot penetrate the barricade with
his hand.
   E.   Possession Limited: It shall be an offense, subject to the penal
provisions of this code, and unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than
one vicious animal which is over the age of six (6) months.
   F.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: It is an offense, subject to the penal
provisions of this code, and unlawful for an owner, keeper or occupant of the
premises where a vicious animal is kept to fail to comply with the provisions
of subsections A through D of this section; or for any person to own, keep or
harbor any animal previously determined to have been vicious without complying
with said subsections. The general penalty provisions of this code shall apply
to any such violation 1 . (Ord. 5972, 5-13-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
7-3-6: NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor an animal which is
determined to be a nuisance. (1980 Code § 7-9)
7-3-7: INHUMANE TREATMENT 1 :
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful to carry out inhumane treatment against
any animal. "Inhumane treatment" is hereby defined to include, but is not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Any physical punishment inconsistent with the health of such animal.
      2.   Lack of food and/or water for more than a twenty four (24) hour
period.
      3.   Knowingly permitting obvious nutritional deficiencies or other
evident health problems involving any animal.
      4.   Improper use of any collar or harness or a fixed lead for the
purpose of confining any animal which results in flesh lacerations, obvious
pain or which causes choking to such animal.
      5.   Depriving animal of adequate shelter.
      6.   To inhumanely kill or attempt to kill any animal. (1980 Code § 7-11)
   B.   Abandonment: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit within the
limits of this city any animal or animals with the intention of abandoning
same. (1980 Code § 7-12)
   C.   Poisonous Substances: It shall be unlawful for any person to set out,
dispose of, cause or permit to be exposed any drug, chemical or other substance
whatever, in any open place, whether public or private property, when such
substance is poisonous or capable of causing the death or dangerous sickness of
any domestic or household animal. (1980 Code § 7-13)
   D.   Duty To Release Animal: Upon conviction of a violation of the
provisions of this chapter for inhumane treatment of or to an animal, it shall
be unlawful for the owner or keeper of such animal kept in inhumane conditions
to refuse to release such animal to an animal control officer for disposition
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 7-14)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 21 of the city charter.
7-3-8: IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION; DISPOSITION:
   A.   Authority To Apprehend: Any animal found in violation of the provisions
of this chapter may be apprehended and confined in the city animal shelter.
(1980 Code § 7-45)
   B.   Fees For Livestock Impoundment: The fees for the impoundment and
boarding of horses, cows or pigs, per head, shall be in such amounts as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time.
(Ord. 5922, 2-14-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   License; Vaccination: If the animal impounded under this chapter has
not received a rabies vaccination and license as required by the provisions of
this chapter, the owner must, within two (2) days from the date of reclaiming
the animal, have the same properly vaccinated and submit proof of such
vaccination to the animal control officer. (1980 Code § 7-49)
   D.   Disposition: Any impounded animal shall be subject to humane
disposition by sale, extinction or other reasonable disposition by the animal
control officer after said animal has been impounded more than seventy two (72)
hours. (1980 Code § 7-50)
7-3-9: RABIES CONTROL:
State administrative code section 310.599 is hereby adopted by reference for
rabies control within the city. One copy of said provisions shall be and remain
on file in the office of the city clerk. (2003 Code)
7-3-10: KEEPING ANIMALS, REGULATIONS 1 :
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   Dogs, Rabbits, Miniature Horses, Miniature Donkeys, Pedigreed
Pigeons: No dog pen, rabbit hutch (housing not more than 5 rabbits), pigeon
coop, miniature horse pen or miniature donkey pen shall be maintained closer
than thirty feet (30') to any dwelling, apartment, hotel, motel, school,
church, grocery store, or food services establishment, other than that occupied
by the owner or occupant of the premises on which said animals are kept. The
term "pigeon" referenced in this subsection shall only mean those birds whose
breed is recognized by a national pigeon raiser's association. Likewise, the
terms "miniature horse" or "miniature donkey" shall only mean those animals of
that kind whose confirmation is such that the animal is or would be capable of
being recognized as a miniature under the standards of a national miniature
horse or miniature donkey raiser's association. It is presumed, but rebuttable
by an owner or keeper, that all pigeons, donkeys and horses are not of a type
which come under the classification established by this subsection.
      2.   Fowl And Livestock: No person shall keep, or permit to be kept, any
fowl, including, but not limited to, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, ducks, and
geese; or any livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, horses, sheep,
goats, donkeys and llamas, within one hundred feet (100') of any dwelling,
apartment, hotel, motel, school, church, grocery store, or food services
establishment, other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises on which said animals are kept, or unless the animals are kept on a
contiguous tract of land of at least three (3) acres in size.
      3.   Nothing herein shall relieve the owner or keeper of any animals from
their duty to maintain the animals and their enclosures in a clean and sanitary
condition as per subsection C of this section. Violation thereof by the owner
or keeper of animals authorized pursuant to subsections A1 and A2 of this
section, shall constitute a nuisance which the municipal court shall order
abated by removal of the offending animals from the location where they are
kept.
   B.   Prohibited Animals:
      1.   Certain Animals Prohibited: No person shall keep, or permit to be
kept, any swine, hogs, shoats or pigs within the city limits, provided that
such prohibition shall not apply to established A agriculture zoning districts
or farm acreages used as such but not otherwise zoned. However, even in A
agriculture zoning districts, the provisions of subsection A2 of this section
shall apply.
      2.   Exceptions: The immediately above subsection shall not apply to the
keeping within the city of no more than two (2) Asian pot bellied swine or
similar swine, subject to the following:
         a.   Each pot bellied swine shall be a pet, to be kept for personal
enjoyment rather than raised for human consumption.
         b.   No pot bellied pig shall exceed seventy five (75) pounds in
weight or twenty inches (20") in height.
         c.   The location requirements of subsection A1 of this section shall
apply.
   C.   Sanitary Maintenance Of Enclosures:
      1.   Every stable, dog pen, kennel, building, domestic poultry coop,
rabbit warren, pigeon coop, or other enclosure where any horse, cow, goat,
sheep or other animal is kept within the city shall be constructed of such
material and in such a manner that it can be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and not constitute a nuisance by smell or otherwise nor endanger the
public health or the health of nearby residents.
      2.   The droppings from such animal or animals shall be frequently
removed from such enclosure and stored in waterproof and flytight receptacle
until disposed of in the city sanitary landfill or buried twenty four inches
(24") deep. No droppings shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except
in such receptacle.
   D.   Wild Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any wild and
dangerous animal within the city limits; provided, however, that wild animals
may be kept for exhibition purposes by circuses, zoos and educational
institutions.
   E.   Violation: Violation of any of the provisions hereof shall be an
offense and subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and/or to abatement of the nuisance. (Ord. 5997, 3-12-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 43 of the city charter.
7-3-11: INSPECTION OF AREA WHERE ANIMALS KEPT:
The animal control officer, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect the
structure or area in which any animal or animals are kept and may do so upon
his own initiative. He may make a complaint before the municipal court against
any person for violation of any provision of this chapter. (1980 Code § 7-2)
7-3-12: ADOPTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    ADOPTOR OR ADOPTING PARTY: A person legally competent to enter into a
contract acquiring a dog or cat from a releasing agency.
   CHIP: A microchip containing a unique identifier inserted into an animal's
withers.
   CHIPPED: To have a chip inserted in the withers of an animal.
   NEUTER: To render a male dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   SHELTER: The Ponca City animal control center.
   SPAY: To remove the ovaries of a female dog or cat in order to render said
animal unable to reproduce.
   STERILIZATION: To spay or neuter a dog or cat as appropriate for the sex of
the animal.
   TAGGED: To purchase a city animal license for a given animal.
   VACCINATE/VACCINATION: To vaccinate against rabies, distemper and parvo.
   B.   Requirements Generally:
      1.   No dog or cat may be released for adoption from the shelter unless
the adopting party pays the adoption fee established by the city commission;
and signs an agreement to have the animal sterilized and vaccinated. The amount
of the adoption fee shall be determined annually by the board of commissioners.
In no event shall the required deposit be less for dogs or cats than in such
amount as established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
      2.   Prior to releasing the animal for adoption and after the adoptor
pays the adoption fee, city shelter employees shall issue a city animal tag
license for and chip the subject animal.
      3.   The shelter is hereby authorized to reduce the adoption fee
appropriately for any animal which, at the time of adoption, is known to be
neutered or vaccinated.
   C.   Fee Uses: The above referenced fee shall be used to pay the billings of
a licensed veterinarian performing the required vaccinations and
sterilizations. Funds from the adoption fee shall be remitted to the
veterinarian performing the required services upon receipt of the
veterinarian's bill indicating that all of the required procedures have been
performed. However, no payments shall be made unless said animal was sterilized
and vaccinated within sixty (60) days of adoption in the case of adult animals;
or, in the case of infant animals, within thirty (30) days of the date the
animal attains the age of six (6) months unless otherwise recommended by a
licensed veterinarian.
   D.   Extensions: Upon presentation of a written report from a licensed
veterinarian stating that the life or health of an adopted animal may be
jeopardized by surgery, the shelter shall grant a thirty (30) day extension of
the period within which the required procedures would otherwise be required.
Further extensions may be granted upon additional veterinary reports stating
their necessity.
   E.   Exceptions To Sterilization Act: The adoption requirements above set
forth shall not be construed to require the sterilization of dogs and cats
which are being held in the shelter which might be claimed by their rightful
owners; nor shall it be construed to require the sterilization of dogs and cats
held pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma "use of unclaimed animals act",
"dog and cat sterilization act" or the "disposal of sheltered animals act" 1 .
   F.   Penalty:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this code and a public offense for any
adoptor to fail to abide by the terms and conditions of the adoption agreement.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this code and a public offense for any
adoptor who signs the adoption agreement and posts a deposit for the required
veterinarian services to not secure the required veterinary services for the
adopted animal.
      3.   Violations of this section shall be punishable within the
jurisdictional limits of this code. (Ord. 6146, 10-24-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 4 OS §§ 391 – 402.
7-3-13: LESTER AND MARY CANN MEMORIAL GARDENS; BIRD SANCTUARY:
   A.   Area: The entire area embraced within the limits of the Lester And Mary
Cann Memorial Gardens, located in the south one-half of the northwest quarter
of Section 26, Township 26 North, Range 2 East, Kay County, Oklahoma, is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   B.   Trapping Or Shooting Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt,
shoot or attempt to shoot, or rob the nests, or molest in any manner any bird
or wild fowl on these premises. Provided, however, if starlings or similar
birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality
within the sanctuary that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or
property, in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, then in
such event, said health authorities shall meet with representatives of the
Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club or Humane Society, or as many of said
clubs as are found to exist in the city after having given at least three (3)
days' actual notice of the time and place of said meeting to the
representatives of said clubs. If, as a result of such meeting, no satisfactory
alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then said birds may be destroyed
in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by said health
authorities, under the supervision of the chief of police.
   C.   Identification Plaques: Plaques identifying these premises as a bird
sanctuary shall be allowed, provided that the materials and installation of
said plaques be approved and supervised by the city traffic engineering
department. (1980 Code § 7-15)
   D.   Penalty: Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 7-15; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-14: VIOLATIONS; CITATIONS; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Violations: Any animal found to be maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter may be apprehended by an animal control officer and
impounded in the animal control center. Animal control officers are empowered
to remove such animals, if necessary, from the property of the owner. No person
shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal when demand is made by the animal
control officer or other law enforcement officer who shall have the same
powers. Refusal to comply with the provisions of this section or of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed an offense.
   B.   Citation: Upon having probable cause to believe a violation of any
provisions of this chapter has occurred, the animal control officer or other
law enforcement officer shall issue a citation to the owner for each violation.
Animals for which the owner cannot be immediately determined shall be seized
and impounded. Further, upon probable cause to believe an animal presents an
imminent danger to public health, safety and welfare, an animal control officer
or other law enforcement officer shall apprehend said animal, using humane
means whenever possible, and remove the animal to impoundment. (1980 Code § 7-
16)
CHAPTER 4
ASSEMBLIES, PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Enforcement
7-4-2: Permit Required
7-4-3: Application For Permit
7-4-4: Considerations In Determining Issuance Of Permit
7-4-5: Issuance Of Permit
7-4-6: Contents Of Permit
7-4-7: Time Lapse Between Application, Activity
7-4-8: Deviation From Permit
7-4-9: Display Of Permit
7-4-10: Dispersal Of Activity
7-4-11: Revocation Of Permit
7-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the authority of any officer
to arrest any person engaged in any acts or activities granted a permit under
this chapter, if the conduct of the said person violates the laws, or obstructs
the public streets and sidewalks of the city, or engages in acts that cause a
breach of the peace. (1980 Code § 30-107)
7-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to organize or hold or participate in any
parade, meeting, assembly or procession of persons and/or vehicles, or to use
any loudspeaker or music device, on the streets or sidewalks within the city
unless such activity shall have first been authorized by a written permit
therefor. (1980 Code § 30-108)
7-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring a permit required by the provisions of this chapter shall
make application therefor to the chief of police, which application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The name and local and permanent address of the applicant.
   B.   The name and address of the person the applicant represents.
   C.   The exact time and date of commencement and termination of each act or
activity desired.
   D.   The purpose, location and route of such act or activity, if applicable.
   E.   The person, group, association or body to be authorized under the
permit to do such act or activity and the number of persons to participate.
   F.   The age of any minors who may participate in such activity, and the
name of the person who will be responsible for such minors.
   G.   Such other relevant information as the chief of police may require for
the investigation of the applicant. (1980 Code § 30-109)
7-4-4: CONSIDERATIONS IN DETERMINING ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
In deciding whether to issue a permit under the provisions of this chapter, the
chief of police shall consider:
   A.   Number of persons to participate.
   B.   Anticipated traffic conditions at the time and date proposed for the
activity.
   C.   Schedule of other similar activities for which permits may have been
issued.
   D.   Adequacy of adult supervision for any minors scheduled to participate.
   E.   Availability of city personnel whose presence on duty may be required
by the activity and by the necessity to protect the general public.
   F.   Adequacy of public facilities in the location proposed for the activity
to accommodate the proposed activity and the normal public use of public
facilities in the proposed location. (1980 Code § 30-110)
7-4-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The permit required by this chapter shall be issued by the chief of police upon
application therefor; provided, however, that such permit may be denied or
refused if it shall appear that the applicant therefor or the act or activity
requested by such application shall be violative of law. (1980 Code § 30-111)
7-4-6: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
Upon issuance of a permit required by this chapter, the same shall contain
therein all information contained in the application therefor and be signed by
the chief of police, and a signed copy of the same shall be kept with the
application, both on file in the office of the chief of police. (1980 Code §
30-112)
7-4-7: TIME LAPSE BETWEEN APPLICATION, ACTIVITY:
It shall be unlawful for any activity authorized under this chapter to commence
within forty eight (48) hours from the date of application therefor. (1980 Code
§ 30-113)
7-4-8: DEVIATION FROM PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any act or activity for
which a permit has been granted under the provisions of this chapter to deviate
from or alter any of the terms or contents of such permit. (1980 Code § 30-114)
7-4-9: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Every person having a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
have such permit in his possession during the activity permitted thereby, and
shall display such permit upon the request of any law enforcement officer.
Failure to display such permit shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-
115)
7-4-10: DISPERSAL OF ACTIVITY:
Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the city shall be
obstructed by a crowd, congregation, parade, meeting, assembly or procession,
or the conduct of two (2) or more persons, except as authorized by any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, the persons comprising said group shall
disperse or move when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse and said refusal shall be a violation of this
chapter. (1980 Code § 30-117)
7-4-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
chief of police for the violation by the permittee of any law. (1980 Code § 30-
116)
CHAPTER 5
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Discriminatory Housing Practices
7-5-3: Exempt Practices And Acts
7-5-4: Complaint Procedure, Investigation
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used In this chapter:
AGGRIEVED PERSON: Any person who:
   A.   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
   B.   Believes that he will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice
that is about to occur.
COMMISSION: The Oklahoma human rights commission.
COMPLAINANT: A person, the commission, or the attorney general, who files a
complaint pursuant to section
7-5-2 of this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint or by
the investigation of the complaint, through informal negotiations involving the
aggrieved person, the respondent, and the commission.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of the
issues in conciliation.
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES: An act that is prohibited pursuant to section
7-5-2 of this chapter.
DWELLING: A. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families; or
   B.   Any vacant land that is offered for sale or lease for the construction
or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or structure, by
section A of this definition.
ELDERLY PERSON: Any natural person fifty five (55) years of age or older.
FAMILIAL STATUS: For purposes of this chapter, a discriminatory act is
committed because of "familial status" only if the act is committed because the
person who is the subject of discrimination is:
   A.   Pregnant.
   B.   Domiciled with an individual less than eighteen (18) years of age in
regard to whom the person:
      1.   Is the parent or legal custodian; or
      2.   Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
domicile with that person; or
   C.   In the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual less than
eighteen (18) years of age.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
HANDICAP: A mental or physical impairment that substantially limits at least
one major life activity, when there is a record of such an impairment; or the
individual is regarded as having such an impairment. The term does not include
current illegal use of or addiction to any drug or illegal or federally
controlled substance. For purposes of this chapter, "an individual with a
handicap" or "handicap" does not apply to an individual because of sexual
orientation or the sexual preference of the individual or because that
individual is a transvestite.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries, the state and all political
subdivisions and agencies thereof.
RESPONDENT: A. The person accused of a violation of this chapter in a complaint
of a discriminatory housing practice; or
   B.   Any person identified by the commission in the course of the
investigation as a person associated with the transaction in question who
appears to have committed a discriminatory housing practice and/or their agent.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
age, handicap or familial status.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or to otherwise grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE BECAUSE OF AGE: An act prohibited pursuant to
section
7-5-2 of this chapter against a person at least eighteen (18) years of age or
older solely on that basis. (Ord. 5954, 8-27-2001)
7-5-2: DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices: It shall be an unlawful discriminatory
housing practice for any person, or any agent or employee of such person:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of any housing, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny any housing because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of housing, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with any housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      3.   To make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
housing that indicates any preference, limitation, discrimination, or intention
to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination because of race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      4.   To represent to any person, for reasons of discrimination, that any
housing is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such housing is
in fact so available because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin,
age, familial status, or handicap.
      5.   To deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, a
multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or discriminate against a person in the terms or conditions of
access, membership, or participation in such an organization, service, or
facility because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap.
      6.   To include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenant that discriminates, or for any person to honor or
exercise, or attempt to honor or exercise, any discriminatory covenant
pertaining to housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      7.   To refuse to consider the income of both applicants when both
applicants seek to buy or lease housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap.
      8.   To refuse to consider as a valid source of income any public
assistance, alimony, or child support, awarded by a court, when that source can
be verified as to its amount, length of time received, regularity, or receipt
because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial
status, or handicap.
      9.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges relating to the obtaining or use of financial assistance for the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any
housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap.
      10.   To discharge, demote, or discriminate in matters of compensation or
working conditions against any employee or agent because of the obedience of
said employee or agent to the provisions of this section.
      11.   To solicit or attempt to solicit the listing of housing for sale or
lease, by door to door solicitation, in person, or by telephone, or by
distribution of circulars, if one of the purposes is to change the racial
composition of the neighborhood.
      12.   To knowingly induce or attempt to induce another person to transfer
an interest in real property, or to discourage another person from purchasing
real property, by representations regarding the existing or potential proximity
of real property owned, used, or occupied by persons of any particular race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status or handicap, or
to represent that such existing or potential proximity shall or may result in:
         a.   The lowering of property values;
         b.   A change in the racial, religious, or ethnic character of the
block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
         c.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
         d.   A decline in quality of the schools serving the area.
      13.   To refuse to rent or lease housing to a blind, deaf, or handicapped
person on the basis of the person's use or possession of a bona fide, properly
trained guide, signal, or service dog.
      14.   To demand the payment of an additional nonrefundable fee or an
unreasonable deposit for rent from a blind, deaf, or handicapped person for
such dog. Such blind, deaf, or handicapped person may be liable for any damage
done to the dwelling by such dog.
      15.   a. To discriminate in the sale or rental or otherwise make
available or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
            (1)   That buyer or renter;
            (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
            (3)   Any person associated with that buyer or renter;
         b.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling because of a handicap of:
            (1)   That person;
            (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
            (3)   Any person associated with that person.
      16.   For purposes of handicap discrimination in housing pursuant to this
chapter, discrimination includes:
         a.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises; provided, that such person also provides a surety
bond guaranteeing restoration of the premises to their prior condition, if
necessary, to make the premises suitable for nonhandicapped tenants;
         b.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         c.   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy thirty (30) months after the date of
enactment of the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988 (Public Law 100-
430), a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a manner that:
            (1)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            (2)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            (3)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               (A)   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               (B)   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               (C)   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               (D)   Usable kitchen and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space;
            (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
national standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people, commonly cited as "ANSI A 117.1",
suffices to satisfy the requirements of subsection A16c(3)(C) of this section;
            (5)   As used in this subsection, the term "covered multi-family
dwellings" means:
               (A)   Buildings consisting of four (4) or more units, if the
buildings have one or more elevators; and
               (B)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four
(4) or more units.
            (6)   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      17.   a. A person whose business includes engaging in residential real
estate related transactions may not discriminate against a person in making a
real estate related transaction available, or in the terms or conditions of a
real estate related transaction, because of race, color, religion, gender,
handicap, familial status, national origin or age;
         b.   In this section, "residential real estate related transaction"
means:
            (1)   Making or purchasing loans, or providing other financial
assistance:
               (A)   To purchase, construct, improve, repair, or maintain a
dwelling; or
               (B)   To secure residential real estate; or
            (2)   Selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property.
      18.   This section does not prohibit discrimination against a person
because the person has been convicted under federal law or the law of any state
of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance.
   B.   Jurisdiction Limited: No other categories or classes of persons are
protected pursuant to this nor shall this chapter confer any such additional
jurisdiction upon the human rights commission. (Ord. 5954, 8-27-2001)
7-5-3: EXEMPT PRACTICES AND ACTS:
Nothing provided for in this chapter shall:
   A.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from
limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of housing which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preferences to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in
this chapter apply to a private membership club which is a bona fide club and
which is exempt from taxation pursuant to section 501(c) of the internal
revenue code of 1954.
   B.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or a
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from:
      1.   Limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings that it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion;
or
      2.   Giving preference to persons of the same religion, unless membership
in the religion is restricted because of race, color, or national origin.
   C.   Prohibit a private club not open to the public that, as an incident to
its primary purpose, provides lodging that it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of that lodging to its
members or from giving preference to its members.
   D.   Nothing provided for in this chapter relating to familial status shall
apply to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "housing for older
persons" means housing:
      1.   That the commission determines is specifically designed and operated
to assist elderly persons pursuant to a federal or state program;
      2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons sixty two (62) years
of age or older; or
      3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person fifty
five (55) years of age or older per unit as determined by commission rules.
   E.   1. Subject to subsection E1a(2) of this section, this chapter does not
apply to:
         a.   The sale or rental of a single-family house sold or rented by an
owner if:
            (1)   The owner does not:
               (A)   Own more than three (3) single-family houses at any one
time; or
               (B)   Own any interest in, or is there owned or reserved on his
behalf, pursuant to any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right
to any part of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3)
single-family houses at any one time; and
            (2)   The house was sold or rented without:
               (A)   The use of the sales or rental facilities or services of a
real estate broker, agent, or salesman licensed pursuant to the Oklahoma real
estate license code 1 , or of an employee or agent of a licensed broker, agent,
or salesman, or the facilities or services of the owner of a dwelling designed
or intended for occupancy by five (5) or more families; or
               (B)   The publication, posting, or mailing of a notice,
statement, or advertisement prohibited by section
7-5-2 of this chapter; or
         b.   The sale or rental of rooms or units in a dwelling containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4)
families living independently of each other, if the owner maintains and
occupies one of the living quarters as the owner's residence.
      2.   The exemption in subsection E1a of this section applies to only one
sale or rental in a twenty four (24) month period, if the owner was not the
most recent resident of the house at the time of the sale or rental.
   F.   Nothing provided for in this chapter shall prohibit a person engaged in
the business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, age, religion, gender, handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
   G.   Nothing provided for in this chapter shall affect a reasonable
restriction on the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling,
or restriction relating to health or safety standards.
   H.   Nothing provided for in this chapter shall prevent or restrict the
sale, lease, rental, transfer, or development of housing designed or intended
for the use of the handicapped.
   I.   Nothing provided for in this chapter shall prohibit the transfer of
property by will, intestate succession, or by gift. (Ord. 5954, 8-17-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 858-101 et seq.
7-5-4: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE, INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by any discriminatory practice as prohibited by
this chapter, may file with the mayor a complaint in writing which shall be
filed under oath. Said complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be
aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this section, and shall further set forth the
particulars of said violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the mayor.
      2.   Complaints filed under this chapter must be filed within thirty (30)
days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within said time period
shall be considered a waiver of the application of this section.
      3.   The city may issue a complaint on its own initiative at any time
that it comes within the knowledge of the city that a person has violated any
of the provision of this chapter.
   B.   Investigation And Resolution By State: The mayor shall forward the
filed complaint to the state human rights commission for investigation and
resolution pursuant to 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 1501 et seq. (Ord. 5954, 8-
27-2001)
TITLE 8
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE LAWS ADOPTED; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Motor Vehicle Statutes Adopted
8-1-3: Application Generally
8-1-4: Scope Of Chapter
8-1-5: Original Jurisdiction Of Municipal Court
8-1-6: Parents Allowing Violation By Children
8-1-7: Traffic Control Devices; One-Way Streets
8-1-8: Vehicle Injurious To Streets
8-1-9: Dangerous Vehicles
8-1-10: Funeral And Other Processions
8-1-11: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
8-1-12: Use Of Coasters, Skates, Toy Vehicles
8-1-13: Stop, Yield Intersections
8-1-14: No Passing Zones
8-1-15: Truck Routes And Load Restrictions
8-1-16: Unlicensed Vehicles
8-1-17: Blind Person; Canes, Color
8-1-18: Child Passenger Restraint Systems
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them; provided, whenever any words and
phrases used herein are not defined in this section but are defined in the laws
of the state regulating traffic, any such definition therein shall be deemed to
apply to such words and phrases used herein:
ALLEY: A public passageway or street as herein defined which affords only
secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal
or official name other than alley.
CENTRAL TRAFFIC DISTRICT: All streets and portions of streets within the area
described as follows: all that area that generally includes Chestnut Avenue
from First Street to Fifth Street; Cleveland Avenue from Pine Street to Seventh
Street; Grand Avenue from Oak Street to Seventh Street; Central Avenue from
Pine Street to Seventh Street; Oklahoma Avenue from First Street to Fifth
Street; Pine Street from Oklahoma Avenue to Cleveland Avenue; Union Street from
Central Avenue to Chestnut Avenue; First, Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth
Streets from Oklahoma Avenue to Chestnut Avenue; and Sixth and Seventh Streets
from Central Avenue to Cleveland Avenue.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading and unloading of passengers.
STOP: When required means complete cessation from movement.
TRAFFIC DIVISION: The traffic division of the police department of the city, or
in the event a traffic division is not established, then said term whenever
used herein shall be deemed to refer to the police department of the city.
(1980 Code § 34-1)
8-1-2: MOTOR VEHICLE STATUTES ADOPTED:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   There is hereby adopted by the city the following chapters of title
47, Motor Vehicles, of the Oklahoma Statutes, and all subsequent amendments
thereto:
Chapter 1; chapters 6, 7, and 8; chapters 10 through 16, inclusive; chapter 19;
chapter 40; chapters 53 and 54; chapter 65; chapter 67; chapters 70, 71, and
72, inclusive; chapter 74, sections 1101; 1102; 1148; 1151 A1 through A13, C,
D, E, G, H, and I.
      2.   One copy of title 47, motor vehicles, of the Oklahoma Statutes,
shall be and remain on file in the office of the city clerk, and said
applicable chapters of title 47, motor vehicles, provides the set of rules
regulating the acts of persons owning, or in charge of, operating or riding in
motor vehicles, moving or standing, as well as pedestrians and other users of
the highway and are hereby adopted and incorporated herein, along with all
subsequent amendments thereto as if set out at length herein. (1980 Code § 34-
1.1; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Specific Statutes Adopted: The following specific chapters, articles,
and/or sections of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes are hereby adopted by
reference, excepting the punishment which shall not exceed the jurisdictional
limits imposed by the Oklahoma legislature on the Ponca City municipal court:
CHAPTER 1. WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED
1-101    Definition of words and phrases
CHAPTER 6. DRIVER LICENSES
Article I. Issuance Of Licenses, Expiration And Renewal
6-101    Class requirements for driver licenses - Commercial motor vehicles -
Hazardous materials - Class D motor vehicles - Motorcycle endorsement -
Restricted driver license - Fees - Expiration - Issuance and renewal -
Allocation of monies - Identification photographs database
6-112    License to be carried and exhibited on demand
6-113    Restricted licenses
Article II. Cancellation, Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
Article III. Violation Of License Provisions
6-301    Unlawful use of license or identification card
6-302    Making false affidavit perjury
6-303    Driving while license is canceled, denied, suspended, revoked or while
disqualified - Penalties
6-304    Permitting unauthorized minor to drive
6-305    Permitting unauthorized person to drive
6-306    Employer permitting unlicensed or improperly licensed person to drive
6-307    Liability for knowingly permitting the operation by a person not
qualified
CHAPTER 7. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Article I. Administration
Article II. Security Following Accident
Article III. Proof Of Financial Responsibility
Article IV. Violation Of Provisions Of Chapter 7
Article V. Miscellaneous Provisions Relating To Financial Responsibility
Article VI. Compulsory Liability Insurance
7-600 Definitions
7-600.1 Statement or endorsement to be included in policies - Excess or
additional coverage - Binders
7-601 Liability requirements - Proof of compliance - Nonresidents
7-601.1 Owner's and operator's security verification forms - Contents
7-601.2 Cancellation, termination or increase in insurance premiums
7-602 Certification of existence of security - Exemptions
7-602.1 Possession of security verification form while operating or using
certain vehicles
7-603 Verification of security
7-605 Suspension of driving privilege and registration
7-606 Failure to maintain insurance or security - Penalties
7-607 Exemptions
7-609 Suspension of driving privilege and registration for failure to provide
proof of insurance - Submission, surrender or seizure of driver license and
license plate - Disposition of fees - Liability
7-700 Suspension following reinstatement - Violation arising out of same
incident - Liability for fees
CHAPTER 8. OWNERS OF FOR-RENT VEHICLES
8-101 Owner of for-rent vehicle to give proof of financial responsibility
8-102 Owner of for-rent vehicle liable when no policy obtained
8-103 Renting motor vehicle to another
8-104 Financial responsibility of taxicab operators
CHAPTER 10. ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT REPORTS
10-101 Provisions of chapter apply throughout state
10-102 Accidents resulting in nonfatal injury - Failure to stop
10-102.1 Accidents resulting in death - Failure to stop
10-103 Accidents involving damage to vehicle
10-104 Duty to give information and render aid - Drug and alcohol testing
10-105 Duty upon striking unattended vehicle
10-106 Duty upon striking fixtures upon a highway
10-107 Immediate notice of accident
10-108 Written report of accident - Notice to other parties - Ancillary
proceedings
10-109 Form of report
10-110 Additional information
10-111 When driver unable to report
10-112 False reports
10-113 Accident report forms
10-114 Penalty for failure to report
CHAPTER 11. RULES OF THE ROAD
Article I. Obedience To And Effect Of Traffic Laws
11-101 Provisions of chapter refer to vehicles upon the highways - Exceptions
11-102 Required obedience to traffic laws
11-103 Obedience to police officers
11-104 Persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
11-105 Persons working on highways - Exceptions
11-106 Authorized emergency vehicles
11-107 Military convoys exempt from municipal traffic regulation - Right of way
- Exceptions
Article II. Traffic Signs, Signals And Markings
11-201 Obedience to and required traffic-control devices
11-202 Traffic-control signal legend
11-203 Pedestrian-control signals
11-204 Flashing signals
11-204.1 Lane use control signals
11-205 Pedestrian-actuated school crossing signals
11-206 Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
11-207 Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals - Violation resulting in personal injury or death - Penalties
Article III. Driving On Right Side Of Roadway - Overtaking And Passing, Etc.
11-301 Drive on right side of roadway - Exceptions
11-302 Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
11-303 Overtaking a vehicle on the left - Signal
11-304 When overtaking on the right is permitted
11-305 Limitations on overtaking on the left
11-306 Further limitations on driving to left of center of roadway
11-307 No-passing zones
11-308 One-way roadways and rotary traffic island
11-308a    Speed limits - Traffic control regulations - Violations
11-308b    Public trusts - Contracts and agreements - Enforcement of speed
limits and regulations
11-309 Additional rules for driving on roadways laned for traffic
11-310 Following too closely
11-311 Driving on dividend highways
11-312 Restricted access
11-313 Restrictions on use of controlled-access roadway
11-314 Approaching stationary emergency vehicle displaying flashing lights
Article IV. Right-Of-Way
11-401 Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
11-402 Vehicle turning left at intersection
11-403 Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
11-404 Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
11-405 Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
11-406 Operation of farm tractors or any implement of husbandry on roadways -
Duty to yield to tractor - Duty of operator
Article V. Pedestrians' Rights And Duties
11-501 Pedestrians subject to traffic regulations
11-502 Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalks
11-503 Crossing at other than crosswalks
11-504 Drivers to exercise due care
11-505 Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
11-506 Pedestrian's use of sidewalks and bridges
11-507 Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
Article VI. Turning And Starting And Signals On Stopping And Turning
11-601 Required position and method of turning at intersections
11-602 Turning on curve or crest of grade prohibited
11-603 Starting parked vehicle
11-604 Turning movements and required signals
11-605 Signals by hand and arm or signal lamps
11-606 Method of giving hand-and-arm signals
Article VII. Special Stops Required
11-701 Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
11-702 Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
11-703 Stop signs and yield signs
11-704 Emerging from alley, driveway or building
11-705 Meeting or overtaking stopped school bus
11-705.1 Church buses - Definition - Meeting and overtaking stopped bus - Signs
and signals
Article VIII. Speed Restrictions
11-801 Basic rule - Maximum limits - Fines and penalties
11-804 Minimum speed regulation
11-805 Special speed limitation on motor-driven cycles
11-805.1 Low-speed electrical vehicles - Restrictions on operation
11-806 Special speed limitations
11-808 Radar interference devices - Advertising, sale, manufacture or
distribution prohibited - Exemption - Penalties
11-809 Exemptions
Article IX. Reckless Driving, Driving While Intoxicated And Negligent Homicide
11-901 Reckless driving
11-902 Persons under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substance
or combination thereof
11-902a    Allowing use of motor vehicle without ignition interlock device -
Penalty
11-902b    Motion for forfeitures
11-904 Personal injury accidents - Charging with violation of provisions
11-906.4 Operating or being in actual physical control of motor vehicle while
under the influence while under age
Article X. Stopping, Standing And Parking
11-1001 Stopping, standing or parking outside of business or residence
districts
11-1002 Officers authorized to remove illegally stopped vehicle
11-1003 Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
11-1004 Additional parking regulations
11-1005 Authorized emergency vehicles; vehicles used in construction or
maintenance of highways - Excepted from certain provisions
11-1006 Parking of vehicles on posted private property - Penalty - Liability of
landowner
11-1007 Placing or parking vehicle in parking space designated and posted for
physically disabled persons - Penalties
Article XI. Miscellaneous Rules
11-1101 Unattended motor vehicle
11-1102 Limitations on backing
11-1103 Riding on motorcycles
11-1104 Obstruction to driver's view or control - Overloading school bus
11-1105 Opening and closing vehicle doors
11-1107 Coasting prohibited
11-1108 Following fire apparatus and other emergency vehicles prohibited
11-1109 Crossing fire hose
11-1110 Putting glass, etc., on highway prohibited
11-1111 Throwing or dropping object on or at moving vehicles
11-1112 Child passenger restraint system required for certain vehicles -
Exemptions
11-1114 Allowing passenger to ride outside passenger compartment
Article XII. Operation Of Bicycles And Play Vehicles
11-1201 Effect of regulations
11-1202 Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
11-1203 Riding on bicycle
11-1204 Clinging to vehicles
11-1205 Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
11-1206 Carrying articles
11-1207 Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Article XIII. Maintenance, Construction And Safety Zones
11-1301.1 Driving through safety zones prohibited
11-1302 Maintenance And construction zones
CHAPTER 12. EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
Article I. Scope And Effect Of Regulations
12-101 Scope and effect of regulations
Article II. Lamps And Other Lighting Equipment
12-201 When lighted lamps are required
12-202 Visibility distance and mounted height of lamps
12-203 Head lamps on motor vehicles
12-204 Tail lamps
12-205 New motor vehicles to be equipped with reflectors
12-206 Stop lamps and turn signals required on new motor vehicles
12-207 Application of succeeding sections
12-208 Additional equipment required on certain vehicles
12-209 Color of clearance lamps - Side marker lamps - Back-up lamps and
reflectors
12-210 Mounting of reflectors - Clearance lamps and side marker lamps
12-211 Visibility of reflectors - Clearance lamps and marker lamps
12-212 Obstructed lights not required
12-213 Lamp or flag on projecting load
12-214 Lamps on parked vehicles
12-215 Lamps on farm tractors - Farm equipment and implements of husbandry
12-216 Lamps on other vehicles and equipment
12-217 Spot lamps, fog lamps and auxiliary lamps
12-218 Audible and visual signals on vehicles
12-219 Signal lamps and signal devices
12-220 Additional lighting equipment
12-221 Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment
12-222 Use of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment
12-223 Single-beam road-lighting equipment
12-224 Lighting equipment on motor-driven cycles
12-225 Alternate road-lighting equipment
12-226 Number of driving lamps required or permitted
12-227 Special restriction on lamps
12-228 Special lighting equipment and warning devices on school buses and
church buses
12-229 Standards for lights on snow-removal equipment
12-230 Specifications and standards for lighting equipment and signal devices
Article III. Brakes
12-301 Brake equipment required
12-302 Performance ability of brakes
12-303 Maintenance of brakes
12-304 Brakes on motor-driven cycles
Article IV. Other Equipment
12-401 Horns and warning devices
12-402 Mufflers, prevention of noise
12-403 Mirrors
12-404 Windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers
12-405 Miscellaneous equipment required
12-406 Safety glazing material in motor vehicles
12-407 Certain vehicles to carry flares or other warning devices - Exceptions
12-408 Display of warning devices when vehicle disabled
12-409 Vehicles transporting hazardous materials
12-411 Television sets visible from operator's seat prohibited - Penalty
12-413 Seat belts or shoulder harnesses
12-414 Specifications
12-417 Operators and front seat passengers required to wear safety belts -
Application of act - Assessment of points prohibited - Fine and court costs
limited
12-422 Restrictions on use of glass coating materials or sun screening devices
on windshields and windows
Article V. Odometer Setting Act
12-501 Short title
12-502 Definitions
12-503 Prohibited acts
12-504 Service, repair or replacement of odometer
12-505 Transfer of ownership of motor vehicle - Information required
12-506 Violation - Penalty
12-507 Actions - Jurisdiction - Venue - Duty to prosecute
CHAPTER 13. INSPECTION OF VEHICLES
13-101 Vehicles without required equipment or in unsafe condition
13-102 Officers may inspect a vehicle and its equipment
13-103 Owner and drivers to submit vehicles for inspection
CHAPTER 14. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
CHAPTER 16. PARTIES AND PROCEDURE UPON ARREST
16-101 Parties to a crime
16-102 Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles
16-103 Public officers and employees - Exceptions
16-108 Procedure for officers stopping persons for violations punishable as
misdemeanor - Minors
16-109.1 Written notice to appear issued at scene of traffic accident
16-112 Failure to obey notice to appear
16-113 Procedure prescribed herein not exclusive
16-114 Arrest of traffic violators without warrant
(2003 Code)
8-1-3: APPLICATION GENERALLY:
The provisions of this title shall apply to every street, highway, alley,
roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way and all other
places authorized elsewhere in this code, either within or outside the
corporate limits of the city, the use of which the city has jurisdiction and
authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use.
   B.   Those upon land owned by the city.
   C.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the city.
   D.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the city. (1980 Code § 34-2)
8-1-4: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this title shall extend to and cover all streets, alleys,
public ways or parking lots to which the public, by implication, is invited.
(1980 Code § 34-3)
8-1-5: ORIGINAL JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
The municipal court of the city may elect to have and possess original
jurisdiction to hear and determine any violations of the traffic ordinances of
any person of any age. (1980 Code § 34-6)
8-1-6: PARENTS ALLOWING VIOLATION BY CHILDREN:
No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize or
knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this chapter.
(1980 Code § 34-35)
8-1-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Installation, Maintenance Generally: The city traffic engineer shall
place and maintain traffic control signs, signals, and devices when and as
required under the provisions of this title and traffic ordinances of the city
to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain
such additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate
traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under state law or to guide
or warn traffic. (1980 Code § 34-222)
   B.   Presumption Of Legality:
      1.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
      2.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the
provisions of this title and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this title, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(1980 Code § 34-228)
   C.   Ratification Of Existing Devices: All traffic control signs, signals,
devices and markings placed or erected prior to the adoption of this code and
in use for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby
affirmed, ratified and declared to be official traffic control devices,
provided such traffic control devices are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this title or state law. (1980 Code § 34-229)
   D.   Designation Of Crosswalks, Safety Zones: The city traffic engineer is
hereby authorized:
      1.   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks, or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he may deem necessary.
      2.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1980 Code §
34-236)
   E.   Traffic Lanes; Designation: The city traffic engineer is hereby
authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway
where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary. (1980 Code § 34-237)
   F.   One-Way Streets, Alleys:
      1.   Designation: Whenever any ordinance of the city designates any one-
way street or alley, the city traffic engineer shall place and maintain signs
giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (1980 Code § 34-239)
      2.   Direction Of Traffic: Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited. (1980 Code § 34-240)
      3.   Certain Lanes For Opposite Direction Use:
         a.   The city traffic engineer is, with the recommendation of the
planning commission, hereby authorized to determine and designate streets,
parts of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular traffic shall
proceed in one direction during one period and the opposite direction during
another period of the day and shall place and maintain appropriate markings,
signs, barriers or other devices to give notice thereof. The city traffic
engineer may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic
moving in a particular direction, regardless of the centerline of the roadway.
(1980 Code § 34-241; amd. Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers or other devices so placed in
accordance with this subsection. (1980 Code § 34-241)
   G.   Restrictions Upon Use Of Streets By Certain Vehicles:
      1.   The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate those heavily traveled streets upon which shall be prohibited the use
of the roadway by motor driven cycles, bicycles, horse drawn vehicles or other
nonmotorized traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
      2.   When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, no person shall
disobey the restrictions stated on such signs. (1980 Code § 34-245)
8-1-8: VEHICLE INJURIOUS TO STREETS:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street. (1980 Code § 34-4)
8-1-9: DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or constitute
a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the chief of police
and in accordance with the terms of such permit as issued. (1980 Code § 34-5)
8-1-10: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Identification 1 : A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall
be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a
pennant or other identifying insignia or by such other method as may be
determined and designated by the chief of police. (1980 Code § 34-13)
   B.   Drivers: Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as
near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the
vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe. (1980 Code § 34-14)
   C.   Driving Through Funeral, Other Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession
while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as
required in this code. This provision shall not apply at intersections where
traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (1980 Code
§ 34-15)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-10 of this title.
8-1-11: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1980 Code § 34-19)
8-1-12: USE OF COASTERS, SKATES, TOY VEHICLES:
   A.   Crossing Street: No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means
of any coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any
roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing,
such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of
the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   B.   Central Traffic District: No person upon roller skates or riding in or
by means of any coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle or similar device shall go
upon any roadway or sidewalk within the central traffic district.
   C.   Parking Lots, Other Premises Posted:
      1.   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any
coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any parking
lot or other private or public premises if the said lot or premises is posted
prohibiting these devices.
      2.   Any lot or premises posted as provided in subsection C1 of this
section shall be posted in a conspicuous location with one or more signs
bearing the following legend: "Skateboards, roller skates, coasters, toy
vehicles or similar devices prohibited on these premises - city code section 8-
1-12". The format of said sign shall be approved for legibility by the city
traffic engineer. (1980 Code § 34-37)
8-1-13: STOP, YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets:
      1.   Designation: The board of commissioners, by motion or resolution,
may designate any street or part of a street a through street. (1980 Code § 34-
296)
      2.   Signs Required: Whenever any ordinance of the city designates and
describes a through street, it shall be the duty of the city traffic engineer
to place and maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every
street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection
is controlled at all times by traffic control signals; provided, however, that
at the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by
the city traffic engineer upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
(1980 Code § 34-297)
   B.   Stop, Yield Intersections Authorized: The city traffic engineer, with
the recommendation of the planning commission, is hereby authorized to
determine and designate intersections where a particular hazard exists upon
other than through streets and to determine: (1980 Code § 34-298; amd. Ord.
6158, 6-11-2012)
      1.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place where a stop is required; or
      2.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event he shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required. (1980
Code § 34-298)
8-1-14: NO PASSING ZONES:
The city traffic engineer is authorized to determine those portions of streets
where driving to the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may
by appropriate signs or markings indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
(1980 Code § 34-180)
8-1-15: TRUCK ROUTES AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Truck Routes:
      1.   The city traffic engineer is authorized to designate streets, parts
of streets or specific lanes as truck routes and appropriately sign said
routes.
      2.   When posted with appropriate signing the driver of any vehicle
exceeding a gross weight of five thousand (5,000) pounds shall not deviate from
such truck route except where the point of destination cannot be reached
directly by such route, in which event the shortest route of deviation from the
truck route shall be used.
      3.   All truck routes shall be based on traffic engineering studies and
the traffic engineer shall adopt truck route maps to be kept on file in his
office, the police department, and traffic violations bureau. (1980 Code § 34-
316)
   B.   Load Restrictions:
      1.   The city traffic engineer is authorized to designate streets or
parts of streets upon which the operation of any vehicle with a gross weight in
excess of certain amounts shall be prohibited at any time.
      2.   When signs are posted by the city traffic engineer on any street or
part of a street specifying prohibited weight limits, it shall be unlawful for
any person to operate any vehicle exceeding such posted weight upon such street
or portion of a street. (1980 Code § 34-317)
   C.   Vehicles Transporting Liquefied Petroleum Gases:
      1.   "Liquefied petroleum gases" as used herein include any material
predominantly composed of gasoline, propane, propylene, butane, isobutane,
butylenes, naphtha or mixtures of same.
      2.   All transport vehicles carrying liquefied petroleum gases shall be
so constructed and operated in compliance with regulations approved by the
National Board Of Fire Underwriters, National Fire Protection Association, and
Oklahoma petroleum gas administrator. Said transport vehicles shall be kept in
good working condition at all times and upon the development of any defect that
might create a hazard to persons or property, the vehicle shall be removed from
the streets until the defect is corrected. Transport vehicles are subject to
inspection by the chief of the fire department.
      3.   No such transport vehicle shall be parked inside any building except
while undergoing repairs or within a building used for the storage of such
vehicles. Said vehicles shall not be parked within any building for any purpose
unless the tank is empty. No transport vehicle shall be parked or stored:
         a.   In any place other than a district designated by the fire chief,
except while making deliveries or receiving service or repairs.
         b.   Within any residence district.
         c.   Upon any street or alley, except while making deliveries. (1980
Code § 34-318; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-16: UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
   A.   Restrictions On Keeping: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
any motor vehicle not bearing a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on
any residential property or to park such vehicle on any street or highway
within the city. No motor vehicle without a current license tag or tags shall
be kept on any other property or area of the city unless said property or area
is owned, leased or rented by a person or persons who possess current Oklahoma
motor vehicle dealers license or comply with city ordinances regulating the
operation of junkyards or operates a motor vehicle body and repair business.
   B.   Inspections: Inspections under this section shall be under the
jurisdiction of the city building official with the person in violation thereof
to be notified by certified mail by the city building official of such
violation and given ten (10) days from the date of mailing such notice to
remove from their premises, or such street or highway, such motor vehicle or
motor vehicles not bearing current motor vehicle license tag or tags.
   C.   File Complaint: After ten (10) days' notice by certified mail, it shall
be the duty of the city building official to file the necessary complaint in
the municipal court against any person or persons in violation of this section.
(1980 Code § 34-170)
8-1-17: BLIND PERSON; CANES, COLOR:
   A.   No person, except those wholly or partially blind, shall carry or use
on any street, highway, or in any other public place a cane or walking stick
which is white in color, or white tipped with red.
   B.   Any driver of a vehicle who knowingly approaches within fifteen feet
(15') of a person who is in the roadway or at an intersection and who is wholly
or partially blind and who is carrying a cane or walking stick white in color,
or white tipped with red, or who is using a dog guide wearing a specialized
harness, or who is wholly or partially deaf and is using a signal dog wearing
an orange identifying collar, or who is physically handicapped and is using a
service dog, shall immediately come to a full stop and take such precautions
before proceeding as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person
wholly or partially blind, deaf or physically handicapped. For purposes of this
section, a "dog guide" means any dog that is specially trained to guide a blind
person.
   C.   Any violation of this section shall be an offense punishable by up to
thirty (30) days in jail or by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 6025, 7-11-2005)
8-1-18: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age in
a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this state,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system as follows:
      1.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear facing until the child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child
reaches the weight or height limit of the rear facing child passenger restraint
system as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
      2.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8)
years of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height shall
be properly secured in either a child passenger restraint system or child
booster seat.
For purposes of this section, "child passenger restraint system" means an
infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as
set by 49 CFR, section 571.213.
   B.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than four feet nine
inches (4'9") in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
      5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
subsection C5, back seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat
of a vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided
further, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the
weight requirements of this subsection C5 if at the request of any law
enforcement officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the
officer with a written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that
the child weighs more than forty (40) pounds. (Ord. 6213, 10-12-2015, eff. 11-
1-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Penalties Generally
8-2-2: Traffic Violations Bureau
8-2-3: Youth Court
8-2-4: Traffic Bail Bond Procedure
8-2-5: Exceptions To Bail Bond Procedure
8-2-6: Arrest, Citation And Bail For Ordinance Violations
8-2-7: Summons For Arrest
8-2-8: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
8-2-9: Habitual Offender (Rep. by Ord. 6033, 1-9-2006)
8-2-10: Fleeing, Eluding Police Officer
8-2-11: Parking Violations
8-2-12: Failure To Obey Citation
8-2-13: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
8-2-14: Warrant Issuance
8-2-15: Audit Of Records And Reports
8-2-16: Authority To Impound Vehicles; Release Of Vehicles
8-2-1: PENALTIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Penalties to be applied under this chapter shall be as established in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   The municipal judge shall establish a schedule of fines, fees and costs
to be paid by defendants charged with common city code violations when
defendants have waived trial, enter a plea of guilty or no contest to the
charge or citation and/or choose to pay their fine without court appearance.
(Ord. 6033, 1-9-2006)
8-2-2: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   Establishment: The mayor shall establish a traffic violations bureau to
assist the court with the clerical work of traffic cases. The bureau shall be
in charge of such person or persons, and shall be open at such hours as, the
judge of the municipal criminal court may designate. (1980 Code § 34-77)
   B.   Specified Offenses Designated: The judge of the municipal criminal
court shall designate the specified offenses under the traffic ordinances of
the city in respect to which payments of fines may be accepted by the traffic
violations bureau in satisfaction thereof, and shall specify by suitable
schedules the amount of such fines for first, second and subsequent offenses,
provided such fines are within the limits declared by law or ordinance, and
shall further specify what number of such offenses shall require appearance
before the magistrate. (1980 Code § 34-78)
   C.   Option To Appear:
      1.   Any person charged with an offense for which payment of a fine may
be made to the traffic violations bureau shall have the option of paying such
fine within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the traffic
violations bureau upon entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in
court; or may have the option of depositing required lawful bail, and upon a
plea of not guilty shall be entitled to a trial as authorized by law.
      2.   The payment of a fine to the bureau shall be deemed an
acknowledgement of conviction of the alleged offense, and the bureau, upon
accepting the prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator
acknowledging payment thereof. (1980 Code § 34-79)
   D.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: The following duties are hereby imposed upon the traffic
violations bureau in reference to traffic offenses:
         a.   It shall accept designated fines, issue receipts and represent in
court such violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty, waive court
appearance and give power of attorney.
         b.   It shall receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the
persons who must or wish to be heard in court, enter the time of their
appearance on the court docket and notify the arresting officer and witnesses,
if any, to be present.
         c.   It shall keep an easily accessible record of all violations of
which each person has been guilty during the preceding twelve (12) months,
whether such guilt was established in court or in the traffic violations
bureau. (1980 Code § 34-81)
      2.   Procedure: The traffic violations bureau shall follow such procedure
as may be prescribed by the traffic ordinances of the city or as may be
required by any laws of the state. (1980 Code § 34-83)
   E.   Records: The traffic violations bureau shall keep records and submit
summarized monthly reports to the presiding judge of all notices issued and
arrests made for violations of the traffic laws and ordinances of the city and
of all the fines collected by the traffic violations bureau or the court, and
of the final disposition or present status of every case of violation of the
provisions of said laws and ordinances. Such records shall be so maintained as
to show all types of violations and the totals of each. (1980 Code § 34-82)
   F.   Designated Fines:
      1.   Persons who are cited for violating traffic offenses and elect to
appear before the traffic violations bureau shall pay the fine indicated in
subsection B of this section.
      2.   Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of the cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has
elected to pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall
proceed under the provisions of title 1, chapter 8 of this code. (1980 Code §
34-84; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-3: YOUTH COURT:
   A.   Court Created: There is constituted, set up and put into effect a youth
court for the city to handle moving traffic violations or pedestrian violations
on the part of the youth of the city, eighteen (18) years of age or under.
(1980 Code § 34-92)
   B.   Officers: The youth court shall be composed of six (6) officers,
namely, judge, prosecutor, public defender, court clerk, bailiff, and
investigator, which officers shall serve without pay. These members of the
court are to be elected from the high schools of the city by the students, and
the names of such designated officers shall be transmitted to the chief of
police along with any changes thereafter made. Principals from the high schools
shall be advisors on the selection of the court officers. (1980 Code § 34-93)
   C.   Jurisdiction: Students sixteen (16) and seventeen (17) years of age, or
to eighteen (18) years of age if still a student in school, must appear before
the youth court for any moving violation. If eighteen (18) years of age and not
in school, they shall appear before the regular municipal court, or traffic
violations bureau, the same as any adult. Juveniles may elect to appear in said
court. (1980 Code § 34-94)
   D.   Extreme Cases: In extreme cases of violation, the youth court shall
have the right to recommend to the municipal judge that the driving license of
the offender be revoked. The judge shall then take jurisdiction of the case and
handle the same according to his best judgment. (1980 Code § 34-95)
   E.   First Offenders: For first offenders, records shall be kept by the
municipal court clerk for the purpose of checking against the second offenders.
When issued a ticket for a moving violation, every juvenile shall be instructed
by the officer to report to the municipal court clerk. This is for the purpose
of allowing the safety officer to interview each violator and give safety
instruction and explain the objectives of the youth court. At this time the
youth shall be booked to appear before the court. (1980 Code § 34-96; amd. 2003
Code)
   F.   Appearance Before Court: Those minors who do not report with the
traffic tickets shall be mailed written notices when to report before the youth
court. Those who report with tickets after the docket is already full shall be
sent home to wait for written notice when to appear. (1980 Code § 34-97)
   G.   Demeanor: It is required that all youths appearing before the youth
court shall be respectful, and in case any offender is disrespectful or
challenges the authority of the youth court, then his case shall be transferred
to the municipal court and a written report of his conduct shall be turned in
to the municipal court along with the information when the charge was filed.
Such offenders shall be required to make bond as required by law. (1980 Code §
34-98)
   H.   Misconduct In Court: Minor infractions of court room dignity shall be
handled by the youth court judge. Sessions in the traffic violator training
school may be assessed for contempt of court. (1980 Code § 34-99; amd. 2003
Code)
   I.   Excluded Cases: Felony cases, drunk driving, or manslaughter by traffic
violators shall not be handled by the youth court, and such offenders shall be
booked in the regular municipal court, or in such other court having
jurisdiction. (1980 Code § 34-101)
   J.   Penalties: Any youth found guilty of violation of the provisions of
this chapter or city traffic ordinances, or upon plea of guilty thereto, shall
be penalized a minimum of four (4) sessions and a maximum of twelve (12)
sessions in the traffic violator training school, according to the judgment of
the youth court judge. Such persons or violators may also be assessed a penalty
of writing an essay or theme on traffic safety of such form and length as may
be prescribed by the judge, and be required to list the names or pamphlets from
which research has been done. (1980 Code § 34-100)
8-2-4: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Release Upon Personal Recognizance: In addition to other provisions of
law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a
nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a
misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law or municipal traffic ordinance,
shall be released by the arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Duties Of Arresting Officer Upon Release:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance, as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the assigned's promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driver's license in this state, or in
the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Arraignment; Continuation Or Rescheduling: The court, or the court
clerk as directed by the court, may continue or reschedule the date and time of
arraignment upon request of the arrested person or his attorney. If the
arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested person shall remain on
personal recognizance and written promise to appear until such arraignment, in
the same manner and with the same consequences as if the continued or
rescheduled arraignment were entered on the citation by the arresting officer
and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued or rescheduled
more than one time; provided, however, the court shall require an arraignment
to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the defendant
to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as provided for in
subsection D of this section. Procedures for arraignment, continuances and
scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting
bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for
suspension of driver's license, shall be required by the city or as provided in
state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   Plea Entered By Defendant; Payment Of Fine: A defendant released upon
personal recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to
the violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for
arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to
him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his
signature. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the
fine and costs to the court clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by
personal, cashier's, traveler's, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or
commercial money order, or other form of payment approved by the court in the
amount prescribed as bail for the offense. However, the defendant shall not use
currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted
by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by
ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the court or, in the
absence of such ordinance, in the amount prescribed by the court.
   E.   Failure To Appear; Issuance Of Warrant; Request License Suspension:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of
the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Driver's License Suspension Request Record; Notice Of Case Closure: The
court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's license
suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant to the
provision of this section. When the court or court clerk receives appropriate
bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other
arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court clerk
shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if defendant personally appears,
or shall make such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant
at the address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished
by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction
is a member of the nonresident violator compact, and shall in all other cases,
notify the state department of public safety of the resolution of the case. The
form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
state department of public safety. Provided however, the court or court clerk's
failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this
subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon the court, the
court clerk, the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any state
department or agency or any employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto upon request. (2003 Code)
8-2-5: EXCEPTIONS TO BAIL BOND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Issuance Of Warrant For Arrest: If a person arrested for a traffic
violation is released upon personal recognizance as provided for in section
8-2-4 of this chapter, but subsequently posts bail and thereafter fails to
timely appear as provided for by law, the court may issue a warrant for the
person's arrest and the case shall be processed pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 27-118.
   B.   Arraignment; Person Placed In Custody: If the defendant is not eligible
for release upon personal recognizance as provided for in section
8-2-4 of this chapter, or if eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to
appear, the officer shall deliver the person to the judge for arraignment and
the judge shall proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no judge is
available, the defendant shall be placed in the custody of the municipal
jailer, to be held until a judge is available or bail is posted.
   C.   Custody Of Juveniles Or Incapacitated Persons:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held
in custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but shall be
incarcerated separately from any adult offender. Provided, however, the
arresting officer shall not be required to:
         a.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section; or
         b.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
            (1)   Who is injured, disabled, or otherwise incapacitated; or
            (2)   If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
            (3)   If extraordinary circumstances exist, which, in the judgment
of the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      2.   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time
of arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the person's
arrest. (2003 Code)
8-2-6: ARREST, CITATION AND BAIL FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Arresting Officer To Detain Resident Violator:
      1.   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which section
8-2-4 of this chapter does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
nontraffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the
arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the
officer:
         a.   That the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage
to property if released;
         b.   That the person will not appear in response to the citation; or
         c.   The person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property.
      2.   If said person fails to appear in response to the citation, a
warrant shall be issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a citation
as herein provided, he shall be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment, or shall be released on personal recognizance.
   B.   Nonresident Violator; Bail: If a nonresident of the city is arrested by
a law enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which this
section does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment. (2003 Code)
8-2-7: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any
ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or
unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested
and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in
the court on a certain day, as specified after the summons is served upon him,
and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons; Failure To Appear: The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy to the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (2003 Code)
8-2-8: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Release Upon Giving Bail Or Bond: Upon arrest, or upon appearance
without arrest in response to citation or summons, or at any time before trial,
before or after arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released
upon giving bail for his appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by
this chapter or the judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of the court
for the receipt of bail. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall
authorize the chief of police, or his designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than the
maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
   B.   Adoption Of Bail Bond Schedule: A bail bond schedule may be adopted by
the judge and be amended from time to time. (2003 Code)
8-2-9: HABITUAL OFFENDER:
(Rep. by Ord. 6033, 1-9-2006)
8-2-10: FLEEING, ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a peace officer directing said driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The signal given by the peace officer may be by hand,
voice, red light, or siren; provided, the officer giving such signal shall be
in uniform, prominently displaying his badge of office and, if driving a
vehicle, such vehicle shall be appropriately marked showing it to be an
official police vehicle. (1980 Code § 34-56)
8-2-11: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
If an alleged traffic offense be a violation of a provision of this code or an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation in such form as prescribed by
the proper city officials. The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under section
8-2-6 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 34-59; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-12: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise to appear
given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the
disposition of the charge for which such citation was originally issued. (1980
Code § 34-65)
8-2-13: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred. (1980 Code § 34-66)
8-2-14: WARRANT ISSUANCE:
In the event any person fails to comply with a traffic citation given to such
person or attached to a vehicle or fails to make appearance pursuant to a
summons directing an appearance in the traffic court or traffic violations
bureau, or if any person fails or refuses to deposit bail as required and
within the time permitted by ordinance, the traffic violations bureau shall
secure and issue a warrant for his arrest. (1980 Code § 34-67)
8-2-15: AUDIT OF RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Annual Audit Required: Every record of traffic citations, complaints
thereof, and warrants issued therefor required in this chapter shall be audited
at least annually by the finance director who shall submit a report of such
audit together with a summary thereof to the mayor and city commissioners. Such
reports shall be public records.
   B.   Access To Records: For the purpose of this section, the finance
director or his duly authorized representatives shall have access at all times
to all necessary traffic violations bureau, and police department information.
(1980 Code § 34-63; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-16: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES; RELEASE OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Remove: Members of the police department are hereby
authorized to remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage
or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the police
department, or otherwise maintained by the city, under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
      1.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
      3.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
      4.   When any vehicle is left continuously unattended or unmoved upon any
street for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours in violation of section
8-5-11 of this title.
      5.   When any vehicle is parked in an area designated by official signs
as a "tow-away zone".
   B.   Unknown Owner; Notify State: Whenever an officer removes a vehicle
under this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three (3) days, then and in that event the officer
shall immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by
mail to the state tax commission whose duty it is to register motor vehicles,
and shall file a copy of such notice with the proprietor of any public garage
in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice shall include a complete
description of the vehicle, the date, time, and place from which removed, the
reasons for such removal, and name of the garage or place where the vehicle is
stored.
   C.   Reclamation; Payment Of Costs: A vehicle impounded as provided herein
shall be delivered back to the owner or other person to whom it may properly be
delivered only after any reasonable costs or charges for impounding and storage
shall have been paid, and after authorization for said release by the chief of
police or his authorized representative. (1980 Code § 34-69)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Traffic Commission 1  (Rep. by Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
8-3-2: City Traffic Engineer
8-3-3: Duty Of Police
8-3-4: Direction Of Traffic
8-3-5: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
8-3-6: Records Of Traffic Violations
8-3-7: Accident Reports And Studies
8-3-8: Drivers Files Maintained
8-3-9: Annual Traffic Safety Report
8-3-10: Identification Of Funeral Processions
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1A-11 of this code.
8-3-1: TRAFFIC COMMISSION 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 3-1A-11 of this code.
8-3-2: CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
   A.   Office Created: The office of city traffic engineer is hereby
established. The city traffic engineer shall be an engineer or a person
similarly qualified. The city traffic engineer shall exercise the powers and
duties as provided in this code and in the traffic ordinances of the city.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the general duty of the city traffic engineer to
determine the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control
devices, to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic conditions,
to plan the operation of traffic on the streets and highways of the city, and
to cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed by this code. (1980 Code § 34-116)
8-3-3: DUTY OF POLICE:
It shall be the duty of the police department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the city traffic engineer and other officers of
the city in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and
means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially
imposed upon said department by this code. (1980 Code § 34-113; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-4: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   Police: Officers of the police department or such officers as are
assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions
may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws. (1980 Code §
34-114)
   B.   Firefighters: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a
fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
thereat or in the immediate vicinity. (1980 Code § 34-115)
8-3-5: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Regulations: The chief of police, by and with the approval of the city
traffic engineer, is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make and
enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   Traffic Control Devices: The city traffic engineer may test traffic
control devices under actual conditions of traffic. (1980 Code § 34-117)
8-3-6: RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
The police department shall keep a record of all violations of the provisions
of this title and the traffic ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle
laws of which any person has been charged. Such record shall be so maintained
as to show all types of violations and the total of each. Said record shall
accumulate during at least a five (5) year period, and from that time on the
record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent five (5) year
period. (1980 Code § 34-118; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-7: ACCIDENT REPORTS AND STUDIES:
   A.   Investigations: It shall be the duty of the traffic division, assisted
by other police officers of the department, to investigate traffic accidents,
to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with
violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents. (1980 Code § 34-
119)
   B.   Studies: Whenever the accidents at any particular location become
numerous, the police department shall cooperate with the city traffic engineer
in conducting studies of such accidents and determining remedial measures.
(1980 Code § 34-120)
   C.   Reports: The police department shall maintain a suitable system of
filing traffic accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them
shall be filed alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for
the use and information of the city traffic engineer. (1980 Code § 34-121)
8-3-8: DRIVERS FILES MAINTAINED:
   A.   Records: The police department shall maintain a suitable record of all
traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and complaints reported for
each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned.
   B.   Studies: Said police department shall study the cases of all the
drivers charged with frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or
involved in frequent traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall
attempt to discover the reasons therefor, and shall take whatever steps are
lawful and reasonable to prevent the same or to have the licenses of such
persons suspended or revoked.
   C.   Time Period For Keeping: Such records shall accumulate during at least
a five (5) year period, and from that time on such records shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five (5) year period. (1980 Code § 34-
122)
8-3-9: ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The police department shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the city manager. Such report shall contain information on traffic
matters in the city as follows:
   A.   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and the other pertinent traffic accident data;
   B.   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police;
   C.   The plans and recommendations of the department for future traffic
safety activities. (1980 Code § 34-123)
8-3-10: IDENTIFICATION OF FUNERAL PROCESSIONS 1 :
The police department shall designate a type of pennant or other identifying
insignia to be displayed upon, or other method to be employed to identify, the
vehicles in funeral processions. (1980 Code § 34-124)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-10 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
8-4-1: Turning Movements, Signals
8-4-2: Speed Regulations
8-4-3: Obstructing Street, Sidewalk
8-4-4: Negligent Collision
8-4-5: Driving On Sidewalk
8-4-6: Driving On Freshly Painted Markings
8-4-7: Use Of Alleys
8-4-8: Corner Cutting
8-4-9: Transporting Open Containers
8-4-10: Operating A Motor Vehicle While Texting Prohibited
8-4-1: TURNING MOVEMENTS, SIGNALS:
   A.   Turning Markers: The city traffic engineer is authorized to place
markers, buttons, or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such
course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as
prescribed by law or ordinance. (1980 Code § 34-277)
   B.   Restricted Turn Signs:
      1.   Authorized: The city traffic engineer is, with the recommendation of
the planning commission, hereby authorized to determine those intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall
place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or such signs may
be removed when such turns are permitted. (1980 Code § 34-278; amd. Ord. 6158,
6-11-2012)
      2.   Obedience: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no
right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (1980 Code § 34-279)
   C.   Limitations On Turning Around: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn
such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any roadway except
at an intersection and then only if such turn can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic; provided, however, that no such turn shall be
made within a business district nor at an intersection where a traffic control
signal is in operation. (1980 Code § 34-280)
8-4-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Rule:
      1.   Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and
any other condition then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of subsection A1 of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions. (1980 Code § 34-257)
   B.   General Maximum Speed Limit: No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically
authorized by this chapter, shall be driven at a speed greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour upon any street within the city, except as the board of
commissioners, as authorized by state law, declares and determines upon the
basis of engineering and traffic investigation that certain speed regulations
shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of
any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice thereof. (1980 Code
§ 34-258)
   C.   Maximum Speed In Central Traffic District: No vehicle, unless otherwise
specifically authorized by this title, shall be driven at a speed greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour in the central traffic district of the city.
(1980 Code § 34-259)
   D.   Regulation Of Speed By Traffic Signal: The city traffic engineer is
authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the
movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at
variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the district or at
intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. (1980
Code § 34-261)
   E.   Speed Limits At Schools And School Crossings: Upon those streets
adjacent to schools or established school crossings, the city traffic engineer,
with the approval of the planning commission, is hereby authorized to
determine, on the basis of traffic and engineering investigations, those
sections of said streets where a speed limit lower than the general speed limit
provided for in subsection B of this section shall be applicable on certain
days and during certain hours, and to place appropriate signs giving notice
thereof. (1980 Code § 34-262; amd. Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
   F.   Speed Limits In Parks:
      1.   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this title,
shall be driven at a speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour on the
roadways in any public park unless signs are erected giving notice of a
different speed as provided in subsection F2 of this section, in which event no
vehicle shall be driven in excess of the posted speed limit.
      2.   The park superintendent, with approval of the traffic engineer and
based upon traffic engineering studies, through administrative rules and the
posting of appropriate signs, may alter the speed limit on sections of said
roadways. (1980 Code § 34-263)
8-4-3: OBSTRUCTING STREET, SIDEWALK:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1980 Code § 34-186)
8-4-4: NEGLIGENT COLLISION:
   A.   Definition: "Negligence", as used herein, shall be defined as a failure
to use the same degree of care as a person of ordinary prudence would use under
the same or similar circumstances.
   B.   Prohibition: If any person driving or operating or in charge of any
vehicle shall through his negligence cause, suffer or permit such vehicle to
come into collision with any other vehicle of any nature whatever or with any
animal, person, street sign, street post, fire hydrant, mailbox, or any other
obstacle or object whatever, in or on any public street or any public place
whatever, in the city, such person shall be deemed guilty of the offense of
negligent collision. (1980 Code § 34-190)
8-4-5: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (1980 Code § 34-193)
8-4-6: DRIVING ON FRESHLY PAINTED MARKINGS:
No person shall drive a vehicle on or across freshly painted street markings
when the same are marked by traffic cones or other devices to indicate that the
markings have been freshly painted, or disturb or remove said cones or other
devices when in use for this purpose. (1980 Code § 34-197)
8-4-7: USE OF ALLEYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle within an alley except for the purpose of
gaining secondary access to the property abutting said alley. Vehicular use of
alleys to shorten travel distance or to avoid using the streets for travel is
prohibited. (1980 Code § 34-198)
8-4-8: CORNER CUTTING:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by the said service drive or parking
facility.
   B.   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across any
parking facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance, avoiding
a traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or turning a
vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from which it
entered said drive. (1980 Code § 34-199)
8-4-9: TRANSPORTING OPEN CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any vehicle upon
the streets or alleys of the city any alcoholic beverage, except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon which
shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall not
have been removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon and panel truck, or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in said vehicle while
it is in motion. (1980 Code § 34-200; amd. 2003 Code)
8-4-10: OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE TEXTING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within this municipality while using a handheld electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00), or such other fine as the state may from time to time impose
on a comparable violation of state law.
   C.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply if the
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   D.   For the purpose of this section:
    CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail. (Ord. 6212, 10-12-2015, eff. 11-1-
2015)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
8-5-1: Angle Parking
8-5-2: Parking Within Indicated Space
8-5-3: Obstructing Traffic
8-5-4: One-Way Streets Or Roadways
8-5-5: Hazardous Or Congested Places
8-5-6: Alleys
8-5-7: Street Rights Of Way
8-5-8: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
8-5-9: Narrow Streets
8-5-10: Parking Restricted During Funerals
8-5-11: Parking In Excess Of Forty Eight Hours
8-5-12: Railroad Trains Blocking Streets
8-5-13: Handicapped Parking Spaces
8-5-14: Specific Street Restrictions, Prohibitions
8-5-15: Loading And Unloading
8-5-1: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Designation:
      1.   The city traffic engineer, with the recommendation of the planning
commission, shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be permitted
and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall not be
indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within the city unless the
state highway commission has determined by resolution or order entered into its
minutes that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without
interfering with the free movement of traffic. (1980 Code § 34-332; amd. Ord.
6158, 6-11-2012)
      2.   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street. (1980 Code § 34-332)
   B.   Obedience:
      1.   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the city
traffic engineer for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings with the front of such vehicle directed toward the curb or
edge of the roadway.
      2.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless said vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. Said vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street. (1980 Code § 34-333)
8-5-2: PARKING WITHIN INDICATED SPACE:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (1980 Code § 34-334)
8-5-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. (1980 Code § 34-339; amd. 2003
Code)
8-5-4: ONE-WAY STREETS OR ROADWAYS:
   A.   One-Way Streets: The city traffic engineer is authorized to erect signs
upon the left hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles, and when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon such left hand side in violation of any such sign. (1980
Code § 34-336)
   B.   One-Way Roadways: In the event a highway includes two (2) or more
separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such
roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of
such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or
parking. The city traffic engineer is authorized to determine when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway
and to erect signs giving notice thereof. (1980 Code § 34-337)
8-5-5: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   Determination: The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to
determine and designate, by proper signs, places not exceeding one hundred feet
(100') in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would
create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic.
   B.   Posting Of Signs: When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
   C.   Tow Away Zones: The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to
determine and designate by proper signs any of the areas provided for in this
subsection as "tow away" zones. (1980 Code § 34-340)
8-5-6: ALLEYS:
   A.   Manner Of Parking: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1980 Code
§ 34-341)
   B.   Business District: No person shall park a vehicle in an alley within a
business district except for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of merchandise or freight, and
then only for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1980 Code §
34-356)
8-5-7: STREET RIGHTS OF WAY:
No person shall park a vehicle upon a sidewalk area, roadway median or other
portion of a street right of way within a business or residence district except
upon those roadway portions of said right of way maintained for vehicular use
where parking is permitted. (1980 Code § 34-357)
8-5-8: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (1980 Code § 34-342)
8-5-9: NARROW STREETS:
   A.   Authority: The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to erect
signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does
not exceed twenty feet (20'), or upon one side of a street as indicated by such
signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty six feet (26').
   B.   Signs: When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any street in
violation of any such sign. (1980 Code § 34-343)
8-5-10: PARKING RESTRICTED DURING FUNERALS:
   A.   Authority: Funeral parlors and churches in the city are authorized to
restrict parking on streets adjacent to funeral parlors or churches by the
placement of funeral signs at least three (3) hours prior to any funeral.
   B.   Signs: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any area where
said funeral signs are displayed. (1980 Code § 34-344)
8-5-11: PARKING IN EXCESS OF FORTY EIGHT HOURS:
No person, operator or owner is permitted to park or leave standing in any
public street, alley or other public place, any vehicle, wagon, automobile or
other character of private property, unattended and unmoved for a longer
continuous period of time than forty eight (48) hours. (1980 Code § 34-345)
8-5-12: RAILROAD TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad
train to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains in motion other than those engaged in switching. (1980 Code § 34-346)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 143 of the city charter.
8-5-13: HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "physically handicapped"
shall mean any person who has sustained a physical disability rendering it
difficult and burdensome to walk. (1980 Code § 34-348)
   B.   Determination Of Location: The city traffic engineer, with the
recommendation of the planning commission, shall determine locations upon
public property where parking spaces are to be reserved for the use of the
physically handicapped, and shall designate such spaces by erecting official
signs. (1980 Code § 34-348; amd. Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
   C.   Identification Of Spaces: The owner of any private parking facility may
designate parking spaces to be reserved for use of the physically handicapped
by identifying spaces with above grade signs as being reserved for physically
handicapped persons. Each sign shall be rectangular in shape having minimum
dimensions of twelve inches (12") in width and eighteen inches (18") in height,
erected so that the top of the sign is at least forty eight inches (48") above
the parking lot surface, and located to clearly distinguish each space being
reserved.
   D.   Prohibited Parking: The parking or standing of a vehicle in a parking
space which has been designated as being reserved for the handicapped, as
provided for in this section, on public or private property, shall be unlawful
unless the vehicle is being operated by, or under the direction of and for his
use, a physically handicapped person.
   E.   Insignia; Presumptions: A person who has secured an insignia issued by
the Oklahoma department of public safety pursuant to 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 15-101 et seq., and has displayed such insignia on his vehicle, shall
be presumed to be utilizing such space in accordance with the terms of this
section. An individual who does not display said insignia on his vehicle shall
be presumed to be in violation of the provisions of this section. Such
presumption shall be rebuttable and may be overcome by the individual charged
or other parties submitting evidence to the contrary. (1980 Code § 34-348)
   F.   Penalty For Violation: Any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 34-348; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Disabled Parking Violation Unit:
      1.   Creation: There is hereby created in and for the city a disabled
parking violations unit, composed of a number of volunteer civilians, accepted
by the chief of police.
      2.   Training And Equipment: Each member of the disabled parking
violations unit shall successfully complete not less than two (2) hours of
training in the elements and documentation of disabled parking violations, and
the proper means of enforcing applicable law and ordinances.
      3.   Procedures: The chief of police shall prepare and enforce police
policies and procedures which provide for the uniform reporting of violations,
the taking of photographs of violations, and the identification of each,
individual volunteer. Such procedure shall be followed by each member of the
unit in all efforts to enforce disabled parking laws and ordinances. The unit
shall confine its work to the enforcement of various parking ordinances of the
city, including, but not limited to, handicapped parking.
      4.   Photographs: All photographs, if taken, of apparent, disabled
parking violations shall be processed and maintained solely by the police
department, and all such photographs shall be available for inspection in any
proceeding to adjudicate the liability for a violation, but shall not be
available for any purpose other than as evidence of a disabled parking
violation. Such photographs and the affidavits or testimony based on the
photographs submitted by these volunteers within the unit shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts contained therein.
      5.   Notice Of Violation: A notice of violation (citation) shall be left
on the vehicle of each person alleged to be liable as an owner of a vehicle for
a violation of a disabled parking law or ordinance, and a copy of the citation
shall be sent to the municipal court clerk. Said citation shall reference the
law or ordinance allegedly violated, contain the name and address of the person
alleged to be liable as an owner of the vehicle, the license tag number of the
vehicle, the location where such alleged violation occurred, the date and time
of the alleged violation, and the identification of the volunteer who issued
the citation. The citation shall also contain such information as needed to
inform the accused of the manner and time to contest the violation alleged in
the notice, and advising that the failure to contest in the manner and time
provided shall be deemed an admission of liability, resulting in a default
judgment being entered.
If the accused fails to appear in court or fails to pay, a notice of violation
shall be sent by first class mail to each person alleged to be liable as an
owner of a vehicle for a violation of a disabled parking law or ordinance, and
a record of the notice shall be preserved in the case record. Said notice shall
reference the law or ordinance allegedly violated, contain the name and address
of the person alleged to be liable as an owner of the vehicle, the license tag
number of the vehicle, the location where such alleged violation occurred, the
date and time of the alleged violation, and the identification of the volunteer
who made the record. The notice shall also contain such information as needed
to inform the accused of the manner and time to contest the violation alleged
in the notice, and advising that the failure to contest in the manner and time
provided shall be deemed an admission of liability, resulting in a default
judgment being entered.
      6.   Compliance With Statute: The foregoing is intended to comply with 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 15-115, and all interpretations of this subsection G
shall be compatible with the terms and interpretations of that statute. (Ord.
6224, 6-13-2016)
8-5-14: SPECIFIC STREET RESTRICTIONS, PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Application Of Section: The provisions of this section prohibiting the
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times, or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device. (1980
Code § 34-366)
   B.   Regulations Not Exclusive: The provisions of this section imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1980 Code § 34-367)
   C.   Signs Required: Whenever by this section or any other ordinance of the
city any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
streets, it shall be the duty of the city traffic engineer to erect appropriate
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless
said signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offenses. (1980
Code § 34-368)
   D.   Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets: When signs are erected giving
notice thereof, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any time upon
any of such streets. (1980 Code § 34-369)
   E.   Parking Restricted On Certain Streets: When signs are erected in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
between the hours or on those days specified on such signs, except Sundays and
public holidays. (1980 Code § 34-370)
   F.   Parking Adjacent To School:
      1.   The city traffic engineer, with the recommendation of the planning
commission, is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation. (1980 Code § 34-371; amd. Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place. (1980 Code § 34-371)
8-5-15: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   Designation Of Curb Loading Zones: The city traffic engineer, with the
recommendation of the planning commission, is hereby authorized to determine
the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable. (1980 Code § 34-380; amd.
Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
   B.   Standing In Passenger Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a
passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes. (1980 Code § 34-382)
   C.   Standing In Freight Curb Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1980 Code § 34-383)
   D.   Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands: The city traffic
engineer, with the recommendation of the planning commission, is hereby
authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and
stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such public streets
in such places and in such manner as he shall determine to be of the greatest
benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus stand,
taxicab stand, or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs. (1980
Code § 34-385; amd. Ord. 6158, 6-11-2012)
   E.   Buses And Taxicabs Regulated:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      4.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (1980 Code § 34-386)
   F.   Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone. (1980 Code § 34-
387)
   G.   Parking Of Trucks, Commercial Vehicles, RVs On City Streets:
      1.   No truck, trailer, commercial vehicle, bus, recreational vehicle or
other vehicle having more than two (2) axles and/or of a length of eighteen
feet (18') or greater shall park on any street or street right of way within
any residential area at any time, except for the immediate loading or unloading
of persons or materials, and only then when not in violation of any other
provision of this chapter.
      2.   No tractor trailer rigs (semitrailers) shall be parked or stored on
the street, street right of way, yard, or driveway within any residential area.
      3.   No tractors for semitrailers shall be parked or stored on the street
or street right of way within any residential area, except on driveways or
other hard surfaced areas. (1980 Code § 34-388)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Crossing At Right Angles
8-6-2: Obedience To Railroad Signals
8-6-1: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a
crosswalk. (1980 Code § 34-479)
8-6-2: OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (1980 Code § 34-482)
CHAPTER 7
BICYCLES 1
SECTION:
8-7-1: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
8-7-2: Use Of Right Half Of Roadway
8-7-3: Riding Between Vehicles
8-7-4: Speed
8-7-5: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
8-7-6: Parking
8-7-7: Riding On Sidewalks
8-7-8: Siren, Whistle Prohibited
8-7-9: Restricted On Grounds Of Marland Mansion
 
Notes
1 1. See section 13 of the city charter.
8-7-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   C.   Any person may walk bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians. (1980 Code § 34-448)
8-7-2: USE OF RIGHT HALF OF ROADWAY:
When an area along the right side of a street is designated by pavement
markings as parking spaces for motor vehicles, the operator of a bicycle may
proceed upon a due course as close to the center of the right most lane
available to vehicular traffic, or of the right hand portion of the remaining
portion of an unlaned street, as is practicable. (1980 Code § 34-453)
8-7-3: RIDING BETWEEN VEHICLES:
The operator of a bicycle shall not ride between vehicles standing or traveling
in a single direction within marked or unmarked travel lanes. (1980 Code § 34-
454)
8-7-4: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1980 Code § 34-455)
8-7-5: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians or bicycles approaching on said
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles and bicycles approaching on said roadway. (1980 Code § 34-456)
8-7-6: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. No bicycle shall be parked within marked
stall lines denoting spaces for motor vehicles, nor between same where
vehicular stalls are separated by markings on the roadway. (1980 Code § 34-458)
8-7-7: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Grand Avenue: Bicycles may be ridden upon any sidewalk within the city,
except no person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk abutting Grand Avenue
within the central traffic district.
   B.   Yield To Pedestrians: Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon the
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian upon said
sidewalk and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing any
pedestrian. (1980 Code § 34-459)
8-7-8: SIREN, WHISTLE PROHIBITED:
A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle
any siren or whistle. (1980 Code § 34-461)
8-7-9: RESTRICTED ON GROUNDS OF MARLAND MANSION:
No bicycles, ridden, operated or otherwise, shall be permitted on the grounds
of the Marland mansion estate, except in designated driveway and parking areas.
Signage consistent with this section shall be posted at all entrances to the
Marland mansion estate property. (1980 Code § 34-462)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Sidewalk Maintenance, Construction
9-1-2: Street Obstructions, Encroachments
9-1-3: Sweeping Trash Into Streets, Gutters
9-1-4: Protection Of Vehicle Load
9-1-5: Drainage Of Water Into Streets
9-1-6: Abandoned Driveways
9-1-1: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION 1 :
   A.   Maintenance By Abutting Property Owner: The owner or other person in
charge of real property which adjoins a sidewalk or sidewalk area shall keep
the adjoining sidewalk or sidewalk area in good condition and safe for
pedestrian use; and it shall be unlawful for such owner or person in charge to
fail to do so. (1980 Code § 30-59)
   B.   Failure To Construct, Nuisance: Any place upon or over which there has
been regularly ordered a sidewalk to be constructed, and such order shall not
have been complied with within thirty (30) days thereafter, is hereby defined
and declared to be a public nuisance, and the owner or occupant of the
adjoining premises shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-60)
   C.   Damage Prohibited: Any person who shall, without obtaining necessary
permits, remove any portion of any sidewalk, or any support from any sidewalk
or crossing, or loosen or remove any plank, stringer or other support from any
culvert or bridge shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-61; amd.
2003 Code)
   D.   Gratings Closed: Any person who shall leave open any cellar door or
grating, or any other cover or door on any street, thoroughfare or sidewalk in
the city, or shall suffer any such door or grating belonging to the premises
occupied or owned by him to be in an insecure condition, whereby persons may be
in danger of falling into such cellar or other place, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-62)
   E.   Obstructions: Any person who shall suspend or erect any awning, sign,
sign base, or any other fixture or structure which extends over or upon any
sidewalk, without first obtaining the necessary permit, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-63; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 114 of the city charter.
9-1-2: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS, ENCROACHMENTS 1 :
   A.   Goods, Wares, Merchandise: It shall be unlawful for any person to place
upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of
the city any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction,
and leave same thereon. (1980 Code § 30-75)
   B.   Pedestrians Or Vehicular Traffic: It shall be unlawful for any person
to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the city in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and
alleys of the city in any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic
and parking thereon. (1980 Code § 30-76)
   C.   Excavations In Streets: Any person in the city who shall make or cause
to be made any excavation in or adjoining a public place, or street, and shall
not in some substantial manner secure the same from persons or animals falling
therein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 30-77)
   D.   Vaults Unprotected: Any person who shall dig or cause to be dug, in any
highway, thoroughfare or sidewalk in the city, any vault, hole or other
excavation, and shall not arch or cover same over and secure the grating or
covering of the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent persons,
animals, or vehicles from falling therein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1980 Code § 30-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 146 and 148 of the city charter.
9-1-3: SWEEPING TRASH INTO STREETS, GUTTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to put, sweep or cause to be put or swept
or otherwise placed or caused to be placed in any city street or its gutters,
any trash, paper, rubbish, refuse, or other matter from or off any sidewalk,
building or premises. (1980 Code § 30-1)
9-1-4: PROTECTION OF VEHICLE LOAD:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate trucks or other vehicles in such
a manner as to distribute, scatter or strew the load or any portion of the load
or contents thereof upon the streets of the city. (1980 Code § 30-2)
9-1-5: DRAINAGE OF WATER INTO STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any place of business, or any
agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow storm water to flow or drain into,
upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking area, street, alley or other public
way without written approval of the city engineer. (1980 Code § 30-3; amd. 2003
Code)
9-1-6: ABANDONED DRIVEWAYS:
Whenever the curb line of any street has been removed or omitted for a driveway
entrance to private property, and physical changes have been made on said
property which prohibits the use of said driveway entrance for vehicular travel
to and from the property, or changes are made in the usage of the property or
improvements thereon which are incompatible with the use of said driveway for
vehicle access to the property, the curbing which has been omitted or removed
shall be installed or replaced and that portion of the public right of way
formerly used as a driveway entrance shall be reconstructed to conform with the
adjacent area of the public right of way by the abutting property owner. (1980
Code § 30-4)
CHAPTER 2
STREET IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Procedure Generally
9-2-3: Protests Against Street Improvements
9-2-4: Work Restricted
9-2-5: Insurance And Bond Requirements
9-2-6: Permits
9-2-7: Utility Cuts; Payment Of Costs
9-2-8: Abandonment Authorized For Certain Delays
9-2-9: Protection Of Public
9-2-10: Closure Of Streets Undergoing Improvement
9-2-11: Prohibited Acts; Removing Barricades
 
Notes
1 1. See section 145 of the city charter.
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ALLEY: A public way less than twenty feet (20') in width between property
lines.
CONCRETE: As used in reference to existing improvements, shall include any
mixture of sand, or sand and rock, with Portland or natural cement as a binding
material, but as used in reference to new work shall mean concrete
proportioned, mixed, placed, and finished as hereinafter prescribed.
CURB LINE: The line of the face of the curb, i.e., the side toward the roadway
at a point one inch (1") above the surface of the pavement or gutter.
DRIVEWAY: A path for vehicular traffic entering or leaving specific premises.
It may or may not be improved and if improved, such improvement may or may not
extend from the roadway to the property line, but the purpose must be to serve
traffic crossing the property line; otherwise any surfacing for the use of
vehicular traffic, outside the existing roadway, shall be considered a pavement
widening, whether the roadway be improved or not, and shall be subject to the
regulations therefor, hereinafter prescribed.
GRADE: The predetermined elevation at which an improvement is to be
constructed.
GUTTER: A strip of roadway surfacing adjacent to the curb, separate from the
remainder of the roadway pavement and not more than three feet (3') wide.
PAVEMENT: Within the roadway, any surfacing whatever. In driveways, concrete or
other "hard" surfacing only.
PUBLIC WAY: Any land dedicated to the public as a way of public travel,
including the entire width thereof between property lines.
ROADWAY: In the case of an alley, the entire width between property lines. In
the case of a street, the space between the curbs or, if no curbs exist, the
space between the established curb lines.
SIDEWALK: A walk lengthwise of a street, located outside the roadway, and
intended to form a continuous public trafficway.
STREET: Any public way more than thirty three feet (33') in width between
property lines.
STREET INTERSECTION: The area at the junction of two (2) or more streets,
defined by constructing perpendiculars to the street centerlines from the
property corners.
WALK: An improved surface for pedestrian traffic, outside the roadway of a
street or alley. (1980 Code § 30-33; amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-2: PROCEDURE GENERALLY:
   A.   Compliance With Local And State Regulations: Except as herein provided,
the construction of the improvements, the time and manner and payment of the
assessments and the manner of payment of the contractor, and all other matters
and things relating to the collection of assessments and installments thereof,
and the certification and collection of delinquent assessments shall be as
provided in the City Charter, and as provided by the laws of the State of
Oklahoma in force at the time. (1980 Code § 30-34)
   B.   Compliance With Plans And Specifications: All streets, curbs and/or
gutters or sidewalks, or extensions and appurtenances thereto, and any other
improvement within the City, shall be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications promulgated therefor by the City Engineer. (1980 Code § 30-48)
9-2-3: PROTESTS AGAINST STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Protest Filed With City Clerk: Any person desiring to protest against
street improvements may file their written protests in the Office of the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after the last publication of the notice concerning
such improvements. (1980 Code § 30-35)
   B.   Manner Of Filing: Any protests filed against any street improvements
must be in writing and such protests shall be made separately as to each street
or public way. (1980 Code § 30-36)
   C.   Alteration: After such protest has been filed with the City Clerk
against a street improvement, the same shall be allowed to be altered by any
protestant, by the addition to or withdrawal of any protestant thereto up to
and including the last day of the protest period, provided that such addition
or withdrawal shall be by separate written document. (1980 Code § 30-37)
   D.   Insufficiency: If no sufficient protest against a street improvement be
filed, the Board of Commissioners shall by resolution declare such fact and
shall proceed thereafter as in cases where no notice is required. (1980 Code §
30-38)
9-2-4: WORK RESTRICTED:
   A.   City Authority: No pavement, pavement widening, gutter, or roadway curb
shall hereafter be constructed, reconstructed or repaired, nor shall any
grading or excavation be done within any roadway, except by the duly authorized
employees or agents of the City or of a duly organized special assessment
district, or by a street work contractor bonded as hereinafter provided, except
for excavation as covered by subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Excavations: No existing pavement, walk, drive, curb or gutter within
any public way shall hereafter be cut or removed, nor shall any trench or
excavation be made in any public way, for the installation, removal, alteration
or repair of pipes, wires, conduits or other facilities or appurtenances
thereto, except by a plumbing, electrical, or street work contractor bonded as
hereinafter provided, or by the duly authorized employees or agents of the
City, a duly organized special assessment district, or a public utility concern
having a franchise for the use of the public ways. (1980 Code § 30-39)
   C.   Replacement: No pavement, walk, drive, curb, or gutter, removed as
described in the preceding subsection, shall be replaced except by a street
work contractor bonded as hereinafter provided, or by the duly authorized
employees or agents of the City, a duly organized special assessment district,
or a public utility concern having a franchise for the use of the public ways.
(1980 Code § 30-39; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Curb Removal: No curb shall be removed for a driveway except as above
authorized, or by the owner of the abutting property or the authorized agent
thereof.
   E.   Landscaping: Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit landscaping
and/or planting of trees, grass and shrubs in those portions of the public ways
not immediately required for purposes of public travel, either by employees of
the City or by the owners of abutting property; provided, that such work shall
not interfere with utilities that may be installed in the street or with public
travel. (1980 Code § 30-39)
9-2-5: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair or remove any pavement, walk,
drive, curb or gutter within any public way or make any excavation therein
without having first complied with the following requirements:
   A.   Insurance: Having filed with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Oklahoma, in the minimum amounts as prescribed below:
 
Comprehensive liability, each individual $ 50,000.00
Property damage, per accident            25,000.00
Aggregate amount, each occurrence        100,000.00
 
All liability insurance policies shall name the City of Ponca City as an
additional insured and shall otherwise indemnify the City from any claim
arising out of any act, omission, or negligence on the part of a person
insured.
   B.   Bond For Publicly Negotiated Projects: Having deposited with the City
an approved performance bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
conditioned that the contractor and/or his surety will remove any work not
executed in accordance with the specifications hereinafter set forth, and
replace the same to the satisfaction of the City; provided that this provision
shall not apply to a public utility concern having a franchise for the use of
the public ways.
   C.   Bond For Right-Of-Way Work Not A Part Of A Publicly Negotiated Project:
Having deposited with the City an approved permit or license bond in the amount
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) conditioned that the contractor and/or his
surety will remove any work not executed in accordance with the City's
ordinances, standards and regulations, and replace the same to the satisfaction
of the City. By way of explanation and not as a limitation, this provision is
intended to include driveway improvements located within the public rights-of-
way. Additionally, a permit shall be obtained as described in section
9-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 6231, 4-24-2017)
9-2-6: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: No person shall cut or remove any pavement, walk,
drive, curb or gutter, or construct or alter any walk, or driveway pavement or
curb, or make any excavation within any public way, without first securing from
the City Engineer a permit therefor, and paying to the City Clerk a permit fee,
together with any other fees hereinafter required for the particular work
involved, in such amount as established by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners from time to time. No permit shall be issued except to a person
authorized under this chapter to perform the work involved. Said permit shall
be in evidence on the job at all times until the work is completed.
   B.   Special Permit For City Work: When it shall become necessary for any of
the departments or employees of the City to tear up or open any part of the
pavement on any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public grounds, they
shall secure from the City Engineer a special permit to do so. Such permit
shall provide for no deposit or permit and inspection fee, but all other
portions of this section shall be effective and as fully complied with by City
employees as by other persons. (1980 Code § 30-41; amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-7: UTILITY CUTS; PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Whenever it shall be necessary to cut or remove any
pavement, walk, drive, curb and gutter or excavate in any roadway, the person
making such cut or excavation shall secure a permit therefor from the City
Engineer or his designee. A separate permit shall be issued for each cut made,
provided that more than one (1) cut may be covered by a single permit, if
located on a single connected installation of new pipe or conduit.
   B.   Replacement Fees: Replacement fees on utility cuts shall be separately
calculated for each permit, on the basis of actual cost.
   C.   Backfilling: All excavations shall be carefully backfilled by the
persons making the same, and the surface, whether or not paved, must be
restored with like kind of materials, and grade, as existing surface. Other
methods of backfilling shall be approved by the City Engineer. Only selected
materials shall be used in making the backfill. No broken concrete, rubble or
debris shall be used as backfill.
   D.   Compliance With City Regulations: In case refilling of any excavation
is not done in accordance with this chapter and the rules and regulations of
the City, and in a manner satisfactory to the City Engineer, then the City
Engineer shall have the right to cause to be taken out all the materials from
the excavation and have the same refilled in a proper manner at the expense of
the party or parties originally making the excavation. (1980 Code § 30-42; amd.
2003 Code)
   E.   Manner Of Payment: No assessment nor installment thereof to be made
pursuant to this section shall be paid other than in cash. (1980 Code § 30-44)
9-2-8: ABANDONMENT AUTHORIZED FOR CERTAIN DELAYS:
Whenever a contract has been entered into for the construction of street
improvement as provided by article VI of the City Charter and the completion of
the same has been delayed by litigation or act of God, the City may, with the
written consent of the contractor, appoint appraisers for the completed part of
the work, and cause assessments to be levied and improvement bonds to be issued
therefor in the manner provided by the statutes of Oklahoma in force at the
time, as modified by the City Charter and by ordinance passed pursuant thereto.
The uncompleted part of the improvement may be abandoned by the contractor by
serving written notice to that effect upon the City. (1980 Code § 30-43)
9-2-9: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC:
All obstructions to public travel shall be properly guarded and barricaded by
the contractor responsible for the same, and kept properly lighted between
sunset and sunrise. No materials or equipment shall be placed on any sidewalk
or roadway unless specifically authorized on the permit, except in that part of
the width of such sidewalk or roadway which must be blocked in any case by the
work under way, or that part of the width of the roadway which might normally
be occupied by standing vehicles. All operations shall be so handled as to
provide minimum hazard to the public and minimum obstruction to traffic. All
rubbish, equipment, and unused materials and supplies shall be removed by the
contractor before his work is opened to traffic. (1980 Code § 30-45)
9-2-10: CLOSURE OF STREETS UNDERGOING IMPROVEMENT:
When sidewalks, curbing, guttering, draining, paving or other street or alley
improvements are in course of construction on any street, alley or other public
place or highway in the City, the Board of Commissioners, or their designee,
shall have authority to close such street, alley or other place against traffic
or travel of every character, pedestrian included, for such time as such
commission or designee shall deem necessary for the proper protection of the
public safety and the security of the improvement. In such event traffic may be
entirely restricted or limited to definite classes. The portion of such street,
alley or other place to be closed shall be barricaded at the limits in such
manner as to indicate to the public that the same is closed, and a placard or
sign shall be erected at each limit stating that such street or alley or other
place is closed by order of the Board of Commissioners. The erecting of such
barricades and signs shall be deemed sufficient notice to the public and it
shall be no defense to a prosecution hereunder that any such barricade or sign
had been removed by some person without authority. (1980 Code § 30-46; amd.
2003 Code)
9-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS; REMOVING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or destroy any barricade or sign
erected as provided in section
9-2-9 of this chapter, or to walk, drive animals or automobiles, or otherwise
travel upon any street, alley or other place, or portion thereof, closed as
provided in section
9-2-10 of this chapter, except as may be necessary in the proper construction
of the improvements thereon. (1980 Code § 30-47)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Application For Permit
9-3-2: Permit Fee
9-3-3: Bond Required
9-3-4: Insurance Required
9-3-5: Liability Of Owner Or Operator
9-3-6: Specifications
9-3-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to construct a parking lot shall submit to the building
official a plot plan showing the parking arrangement, methods of ingress and
egress, and other essential data as may be required by the building official
and make written application for a building permit. (1980 Code § 30-90; amd.
2003 Code)
9-3-2: PERMIT FEE:
Before commencing improvements upon any parking lot, the owner or operator
shall purchase from the building official a building permit, in such amount as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time,
which sum shall be deposited in the general fund of the city. (1980 Code § 30-
91; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-3: BOND REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to engage in the business of surfacing or paving parking
lots within the city shall first execute and deliver to the city clerk a
performance bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Such
bond shall run in the favor of the city and be conditioned upon the performance
of all installations of surfacing or paving made by them or under their
direction and shall be made in conformance with the minimum requirements of
this code. Any persons aggrieved may bring any action upon and with equal
rights as though such aggrieved persons had been named as the obligee in said
bond. (1980 Code § 30-92)
9-3-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
In addition to executing the required bond, every person desiring to carry on a
business as a parking lot contractor, before being permitted to file the bond
as above referred to, shall first file with the city clerk subject to the
approval of the board of commissioners, an owner's protective policy with the
city as named insured in the amounts of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) bodily injury each person, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) bodily injury each accident and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage each accident. (1980 Code § 30-93)
9-3-5: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OPERATOR:
The owner or operator of any such parking lot assumes responsibility for proper
drainage and proper grades for same, and the city shall not be responsible for
damages resulting from drainage or grades on or from such parking lot. (1980
Code § 30-94)
9-3-6: SPECIFICATIONS:
All parking lots and the portion of their driveways on private property shall
be covered with a crushed rock base having a double bituminous seal coat, using
either chips or sand, at twenty three (23) pounds per square yard for each coat
and a minimum of two-tenths (2/10) gallon of seal coat per square yard and
using an approved grade of asphaltic material, or equivalent specification.
(1980 Code § 30-95)
CHAPTER 4
STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Permit Required; Application
9-4-2: Investigation Of Applicant
9-4-3: Fee
9-4-4: Minimum Age Requirement
9-4-5: Painting Street Address Numbers On Curbs
9-4-6: Marking Standards
9-4-7: Penalty
9-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
A permit may be issued to persons desiring to paint street address numbers upon
the curbs of public streets of the city, and charging a fee for said service,
subject to the following limitations and requirements:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business
of painting street address numbers upon the curbs of public streets within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a permit from the city
clerk.
   B.   Application: Applicants for the permit required by this chapter shall
file with the city clerk a sworn application in writing containing the
following information:
      1.   The full name, description, birth date and social security number of
each applicant.
      2.   His/her address both legal and local.
      3.   If employed by another, the name and address of applicant's
employer, together with a brief description of credentials showing the exact
relationship.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a felony, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor. (1980 Code § 30-131)
9-4-2: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Conduct Of Investigation: Upon receipt of application for the permit as
set out in section
9-4-1 of this chapter, the city clerk shall refer a copy to the chief of
police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business and
moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the
public and for the public welfare.
   B.   Disapproval: If, as a result of investigation, the applicant's
character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief
of police shall endorse on the application his disapproval and his reason for
the same, and return the application to the city clerk, and no permit shall be
issued.
   C.   Approval: If, as a result of investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, he shall endorse
on the application his approval, and return the application to the city clerk,
who shall, upon payment of the required fee, issue the permit to the applicant.
(1980 Code § 30-132)
9-4-3: FEE:
   A.   Individual: Upon approval of the application of any individual to paint
street address numbers upon the curbs of public streets of Ponca City as
previously set out, the applicant shall pay to the city clerk such amount as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time for
the permit fee for one year, prior to receiving a permit from the city clerk.
   B.   Nonprofit Organizations: Nonprofit organizations, which have their
principal place of activity within the city, wishing to paint street address
numbers upon the curbs of the public streets within the city as a fund raising
project shall be exempt from paying the permit fee, but must comply with all
other provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 30-134; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-4: MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT:
No permit shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to any
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years. (1980 Code § 30-133)
9-4-5: PAINTING STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS ON CURBS:
   A.   Hours For Solicitation Of Business: No solicitations shall be conducted
within the city between the hours of one-half (1/2) hour before sunset and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. the following morning. (1980 Code § 30-135)
   B.   Permission Of Owner Required: No markings provided for in this chapter
shall be installed without prior permission of the owner or occupant of the
property and his approval of the fee charged. (1980 Code § 30-136)
9-4-6: MARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   All markings shall consist of three inch (3") to four inch (4") black
numerals stenciled upon a painted white background.
   B.   All paints shall be waterproof when dry and recommended by the
manufacturer for outdoor application on concrete surfaces.
   C.   Markings shall be located on the vertical surface of the street curb
two feet (2') from the "house side" of the drive approach unless the resident
desires the markings to be placed upon the curb(s) of the drive approach. In
the absence of a drive approach, the markings shall be placed on the street
curb near the center of the property. (1980 Code § 30-137)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every act of solicitation without a permit shall constitute
a separate offense. (1980 Code § 30-138; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
LAKE PONCA REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Park Ranger (Rep. by Ord. 6349, 11-11-2024)
9-5-2: Assumption Of Risk
9-5-3: Fees For Lots, Docks, Shelters
9-5-4: Shelters; Pavilions
9-5-5: Special Penalties In Connection With Structures
9-5-6: Boating Regulations
9-5-7: Boat Operators; Licensing Requirements
9-5-8: Boat Operation Regulations
9-5-9: Waterskiing
9-5-10: Fishing
9-5-11: Camping
9-5-12: Nature Center And Wetlands Protection Area
9-5-13: Swimming In Lake Ponca Permitted; Hours; Violations
9-5-14: Paddleboards
9-5-15: Reserved
9-5-16: Reserved
9-5-17: Reserved
9-5-18: Reserved
9-5-19: Reserved
9-5-20: Penalties For Violation
9-5-1: PARK RANGER:
(Rep. by Ord. 6349, 11-11-2024)
9-5-2: ASSUMPTION OF RISK:
All persons, whether adult or minor, participating in water sports at Lake
Ponca shall do so at their own risk. (1980 Code § 18-5)
9-5-3: FEES FOR LOTS, DOCKS, SHELTERS:
   A.   Rental Fees For Lake Lots And Ski Docks: The annual fees for leasing of
Lake Lots and Ski Docks at Lake Ponca shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners.
   B.   Rental Fees For Use Of Picnic Shelters:
      1.   Picnic Shelters are available for three different rental blocks:
         a.   8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.; and
         b.   12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and
         c.   5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      2.   Rates are established for picnic shelters located in Ponca City by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   C.   Nontransferable: The established rates are not negotiable, transferable
and/or refundable. (Ord. 5955, 8-27-2001; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6317, 11-14-
2022)
9-5-4: SHELTERS; PAVILIONS:
Any person residing in the Ponca City Utility Authority servicing area and
paying a Ponca City Utility Authority utility bill, may lease or purchase a
lease of a Ponca City Lake Lot. There are One Hundred Fourteen (114) total Lake
Lots available.
   A.   Building Design: Design of the building must comply with City of Ponca
City Standard Operations Policy No. 18.
   B.   Sleeping Quarters: Such buildings may be used as sleeping quarters,
provided:
      1.   Persons using the facility, other than the lessee, must possess on
their person, a consent signed by the lessee allowing them the use of the
facilities.
      2.   Overnight stays will be limited to seven (7) nights during any ten
(10) day period and shall be for recreational purposes only.
      3.   Persons staying overnight must be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age or accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Toilet Facilities: Lake Lots are permitted to have either an external
Port-O-Let or an internal Electric Incinerating Toilet.
   D.   Maintenance: The lessee has the sole responsibility of maintenance and
upkeep of land and any structure on leased land from the City. Should the
structure fall into disrepair or the lessee fail to abide by and perform each
and every condition of use imposed by the City of Ponca City Standard
Operations Policy No. 18 and the Lake Lot Lease or any part thereof, use of
Lake Lot shall be subject to termination. The person leasing or placing such
structure on a Lake Lot shall be entitled to no compensation therefor, being
construed to have abandoned the same. Any person who shall erect any type of
structure on a Lake Lot shall be held to have accepted the above provision as a
condition of receiving permission to erect the same. (1980 Code § 18-9; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. 6317, 11-14-2022)
9-5-5: SPECIAL PENALTIES IN CONNECTION WITH STRUCTURES:
Any person who shall erect any dock, boathouse, motor house, shelter or
pavilion on Lake Ponca, other than in a location approved by the city or not in
conformity with the structural requirements hereinabove prescribed, or without
the approval of the plans and specifications therefor by the city or who shall
permit such structure to go adrift or to become dilapidated or unsightly, or
who shall erect such a structure without having secured a license to operate a
boat upon the said lake or who, during the continuance of such structure on the
lake, shall permit such license to lapse, or shall use such structure for any
illegal purpose, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, including costs, for each offense. Each of the actions
enumerated above shall be deemed a separate offense. Each day that any
structure not conforming to the requirements hereof shall be upon such lake
shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 18-10; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-6: BOATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rental Prohibited: Owners of private boats of all types shall not be
permitted to rent their boats for use on Lake Ponca or to collect fares or to
take donations for the use of the same. (1980 Code § 18-22)
   B.   Control Of Unsafe Boats: If a park ranger observes a boat or vessel
being used without sufficient approved lifesaving devices or in an overloaded
or other unsafe condition, and in his judgment such use creates a hazardous
condition, he shall direct the operator to take whatever immediate and
reasonable steps would be necessary for the safety of those aboard the vessel,
including directing the operator to return to mooring and to remain there until
the situation creating the hazard is corrected or ended. (1980 Code § 18-23;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Identification Of Restricted Areas: All restricted areas and safety
zones on Lake Ponca shall be suitably marked by buoys and other markers. (1980
Code § 18-24)
   D.   Transportation Of Alcoholic Beverages: It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly transport in any motor boat or vessel or while manipulating
any water skis, surfboard or similar device upon the navigable waters of Lake
Ponca any alcoholic beverage, except in the original container which shall not
have been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been
removed. (1980 Code § 18-25; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Required Equipment And Devices:
      1.   Lighting: No motor propelled boat shall be allowed to operate on
Lake Ponca at night except boats having a white light to the rear and a green
light showing to starboard (right) and a red light showing to port (left).
Sailboats shall comply with U.S. coast guard rules for lighting. (1980 Code §
18-26)
      2.   Fire Extinguishers: All motorboats shall carry at least one U.S.
coast guard approved portable fire extinguisher which shall be readily
accessible and in good and serviceable condition. (1980 Code § 18-27)
      3.   Air Chambers In Metal Boats: All metal boats shall be equipped with
an air chamber or chambers of sufficient displacement to ensure buoyancy of the
craft and passengers in the event of capsizing, except fiberglass boats shall
comply with U.S. Coast Guard rules as to air chambers in effect at the time of
construction. (1980 Code § 18-28)
      4.   Exhaust: All motorboats must be equipped with exhaust which exists
below the water line when the boat is unoccupied and not under way, or through
transform exhaust on the boat. (1980 Code § 18-29)
      5.   Flotation Devices: No person shall operate any boat on Lake Ponca
unless there is at least one personal flotation device for each person in the
boat approved by the U.S. Coast Guard, which flotation device is designed to
keep a conscious person in a vertical or slightly backward position, and has at
least fifteen and five-tenths (15.5) pounds of buoyancy. (1980 Code § 18-30)
   F.   Unsightly, Unsafe, Abandoned Boats: If any person shall permit his boat
to fall into disrepair or become unsightly in appearance or unsafe for
operation, or abandoned, or fail to care for a boat for an unreasonable length
of time, or fail to provide a current license for his boat, the park ranger is
hereby empowered to remove the boat from the lake, or lakeshore as the case may
be. If any boat so removed is not claimed within thirty (30) days, the boat
will be confiscated and disposed of by the park ranger without compensation or
remuneration to the owner thereof, it being construed to have been abandoned.
(1980 Code § 18-31; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Length Of Motorboats Generally: (Rep. by Ord. 6249, 12-11-2017)
   H.   Persons Seated: No person shall ride on or in any motorboat being
operated on Lake Ponca except in a seat provided by the boat manufacturer for
passenger or operator of said boat. (1980 Code § 18-33)
9-5-7: BOAT OPERATORS; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    DAILY: Sunup to sundown to daylight of the following day of the date of
issue.
   DISABILITY: Same qualifications as required by the State of Oklahoma
disability lifetime fishing license.
   FAMILY: Resident family members sixteen (16) years of age or older living in
same household.
   NONRESIDENT: Any person without a Ponca City mailing address.
   RESIDENT: Any person with a Ponca City mailing address.
   SENIOR CITIZEN: Any person fifty five (55) years of age or older. (1980 Code
§ 18-42)
   B.   License Required: No person shall be allowed to have or operate any
boat upon Lake Ponca without first acquiring an annual or daily license
therefor and complying with the provisions of this section. (1980 Code § 18-41)
   C.   Minimum Age: No license required by the provisions of this section
shall be issued to any person under the age of sixteen (16) years. (1980 Code §
18-43)
   D.   Inspection Of Boats: All boats may be inspected for safety and
seaworthiness by the park ranger, prior to the granting of any license; and a
like inspection shall be made upon the granting of each annual license
thereafter. Each license shall state the number of persons the boat is licensed
to carry. The carrying of a number of persons in excess of that specified on
the license shall be deemed sufficient cause to revoke the license. No boat
shall be licensed or relicensed if, in the judgment of the park ranger, it is
unsafe for operation on Lake Ponca. (Ord. 6228, 2-13-2017)
   E.   Fees:
      1.   The permit fees for watercraft operated in Lake Ponca and for
watercraft dealers or demonstrators shall be in such amounts as established by
resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time.
      2.   Such fees are not negotiable, transferable or refundable. (1980 Code
§§ 18-45, 18-47; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   No fee required by the provisions of this section shall be prorated.
(1980 Code § 18-48; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Issuance Of License: All boat licenses required by the provisions of
this section shall be issued by the park ranger or such other city employee as
may be designated by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 49; amd. 2003
Code)
   G.   License Nontransferable: No license issued under the provisions of this
section shall be transferable to any other person. (Ord. 6230, 3-13-2017)
   H.   Expiration Dates Of Licenses:
      1.   Any annual license issued under the provisions of this section shall
expire on December 31 following its date of issuance. (1980 Code § 18-51; amd.
2003 Code)
      2.   Daily: Any daily license issued under the provisions of this section
shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the day of issuance thereof.
(1980 Code § 18-52)
   I.   Boat Operation: No person may operate a boat on Lake Ponca that is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Each operator or other licensee
under this chapter shall carry their license upon their person while on Lake
Ponca and produce it upon demand of any city employee authorized to require the
same. (Ord. 6228, 2-13-2017)
   J.   Tag Attached To Boat: The annual license of each boat shall be
designated by proper tag on the side of the boat, which must be plainly visible
for a distance of at least one hundred feet (100') from said boat. Such tag
shall be furnished with the license by the city. (1980 Code § 18-54)
   K.   Revocation Of License: Upon application by the city attorney, notice
thereof to the licensee, and hearing, the municipal judge may revoke or suspend
any license issued under the provisions of this section for licensee's
violation of any applicable provision of state law or this code. (1980 Code §
18-55; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-8: BOAT OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Careful And Prudent Operation: Every operator of a boat shall at all
times operate the boat in a careful and prudent manner and at such rate of
speed as not to endanger the life, limb or property of any other person, and
shall obey all posted speed limits. (1980 Code § 18-63)
   B.   Operation Restricted: All persons are hereby prohibited from operating
any boat upon Lake Ponca at any time when, in the judgment of the park ranger,
the water is sufficiently rough to be dangerous. (1980 Code § 18-64; amd. 2003
Code)
   C.   Minors Restricted:
      1.   63 Oklahoma Statutes, section 4231 et seq. (except section 4235)
(the Kyle Williams boating safety education act), and associated definitions
and future amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference and are made a
part of this subsection as if fully set out herein.
      2.   Provided that anywhere the age of twelve (12) years is mentioned in
said act, the age of fourteen (14) years shall be substituted in its stead.
      3.   No person under the age of fourteen (14) years may operate a motor
powered watercraft of any kind unless:
         a.   Accompanied by an adult eighteen (18) years of age or older
experienced in watercraft operations who is in/on the craft and who is in a
position to take immediate control of the craft in the event of danger; and
         b.   Has completed a boating safety education course and received a
boating education certificate; and
         c.   Is wearing a coast guard approved flotation device.
         d.   In such instances the adult shall be fully responsible for the
operation of the watercraft.
      4.   Any parent, legal guardian or person having actual responsibility
for a person under sixteen (16) years of age, or who is the owner of the vessel
operated by a person under sixteen (16) years of age, who knows, or should have
known that the person operating the vessel is not in compliance with the
boating safety certification required by the act shall be guilty of an offense
which shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) upon first offense. Any second or subsequent conviction shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      5.   Any minor's violation of the conditions of this section, as the
operator of the watercraft, shall be an offense punishable within the juvenile
and monetary jurisdictional limits of the court. (Ord. 6052, 4-23-2007, eff. 7-
1-2007)
   D.   Use Of Certain Kinds Of Boats Restricted:
      1.   Inflatable Vessels: Inflatable vessels that are approved and stamped
by the National Marine Manufacturers Association may only be operated on Lake
Ponca in the designated "no wake" areas.
      2.   Pontoon Boats: Motor propelled pontoon boats of not more than twenty
eight feet (28') in length may operate on Lake Ponca if licensed as required by
this chapter, but shall not operate at a speed such as to leave a visible wake
outside the designated ski area of West Lake Ponca and not to exceed the posted
speed limit in the designated ski area.
      3.   Paddleboats: Small paddleboats, propelled by foot driven propulsion,
such as may be approved by the park ranger, may be operated on Lake Ponca.
Paddleboats must be registered with the state and city and shall not operate in
the ski area at any time.
   E.   Fishing: Motor propelled boats shall be allowed on any neck or bay of
Lake Ponca only for the purpose of fishing and shall move only at such speed as
shall not create a visible wake. Tube fishing shall only be allowed in
designated "no wake" areas. (Ord. 6228, 2-13-2017)
   F.   Operation While Intoxicated:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall operate any motorboat or vessel, or
manipulate any water skis, surfboard, or similar device while intoxicated or
under the influence of any substance included in the uniform controlled
dangerous substances act 1  of the state. (1980 Code § 18-70)
      2.   Evidence, Chemical Analysis: Upon the trial of any criminal action
or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person
while operating any motorboat or vessel or manipulating any water skis,
surfboard or similar device while under the influence of alcoholic beverage,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person's blood as shown by a chemical
analysis of his blood or breath is admissible. For the purpose of this section:
         a.   Evidence that there was five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) or
less by weight of alcohol in his blood is prima facie evidence that the person
was not under the influence of alcoholic beverage.
         b.   Evidence that there was more than five-hundredths of one percent
(0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the person's blood is relevant evidence of
operating any motorboat or vessel or manipulating any water skis, surfboard or
similar device while his ability to operate such motorboat or vessel or
manipulating any water skis, surfboard or similar device is impaired by the
consumption of alcoholic beverage; however, no person shall be convicted of the
offense of operating a motorboat or vessel or manipulating any water skis,
surfboard or similar device while his ability to operate such motorboat or
vessel or manipulating any water skis, surfboard or similar device while his
ability to operate such is impaired by consumption of alcoholic beverage solely
because there was more than five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) by weight of
alcohol in the person's blood in the absence of additional evidence that such
person's ability to operate the above boats or other devices was affected by
said consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public health and safety was
threatened or that said person had violated a state statute or local ordinance
in the operation of a motorboat or vessel or manipulating any water skis,
surfboard or similar device.
         c.   Evidence that there was ten-hundredths of one percent (0.10%) or
more by weight of alcohol in his blood shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcoholic beverage.
         d.   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon
grams of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of blood.
         e.   To be admissible such evidence must first be qualified by
establishing that such specimen was obtained from the subject within not more
than two (2) hours of the arrest of the subject. (1980 Code § 18-71; amd. 2003
Code)
      3.   Refusal To Be Tested: If a conscious person under arrest refuses to
submit to a chemical test, none shall be given; but the park ranger, if he has
reasonable grounds to believe that the arrested person has been operating a
motorboat or vessel or manipulating water skis, surfboard or similar device
upon Lake Ponca and the person has refused to submit to a chemical test, shall
have the right to revoke the arrested individual's privilege of operating a
motorboat, sailboat, water skis, surfboard or any other similar device upon
Lake Ponca for a period of one year. (1980 Code § 18-72; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Appeal: Upon written request of the individual whose privilege to
operate a motorboat, sailboat, water skis or similar device upon Lake Ponca has
been denied by the park ranger, the board of commissioners shall grant the
person an opportunity to be heard within ten (10) days after receipt of written
request from said individual, but the request must be made within thirty (30)
days after denial of the privilege of operating a motorboat, sailboat, water
skis, or surfboard upon said lake by the park ranger. The scope of the hearing
shall cover the issue of whether the person had been operating one of the above
described devices upon Lake Ponca while under the influence of an alcoholic
beverage and whether the person was placed under arrest and whether he refused
to submit to the test or tests. The board of commissioners shall order either
that the denial of the privilege of operating one of the above mentioned
devices upon Lake Ponca be rescinded or sustained. (1980 Code § 18-73; amd.
2003 Code)
   G.   Reckless Operation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a boat on Lake Ponca
in a reckless manner. Reckless operation of a boat includes operating the boat
in a manner which unnecessarily interferes with the free and proper use of the
navigable waters of Lake Ponca or unnecessarily endangers other boats therein,
or the life and liberty of any person.
      2.   Upon conviction of operating a motorboat or vessel, or manipulating
skis, surfboard, jet skis, sailboat or other watercraft upon Lake Ponca in a
manner not reasonable or proper, the municipal judge may revoke the convicted
individual(s) privilege of operating a motorboat, sailboat, water skis,
surfboard, jet skis, or other watercraft upon Lake Ponca for a period of one
year from date of conviction.
      3.   Upon written request of the individual whose privilege to operate a
watercraft upon Lake Ponca has been revoked, the board of commissioners shall
grant the person an opportunity to be heard within ten (10) days after receipt
of written notice from said individual, but the request must be made within
thirty (30) days after revocation of the privilege of operating such
watercraft. Upon hearing, the board of commissioners may sustain, overrule or
modify the revocation imposed by the municipal judge. (1980 Code § 18-74)
   H.   Exemption For Racing: Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to prevent the operator of a boat lawfully competing in an event
which is authorized from attempting to attain high speeds on a marked racing
course. (1980 Code § 18-75)
   I.   Speed Generally: Jet skis, ski bikes or similar devices operating
inside of the area designated for their use may be operated at speeds creating
visible wake, but all motor propelled boats operating outside of the designated
ski area shall be operated at such speeds as not to create a visible wake,
except by special permit issued by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 18-
76)
   J.   Proximity To Other Boats: Motor propelled boats shall at all times keep
a safe distance from other boats. Motor propelled boats, while cruising at
speeds such as to create a visible wake, shall not come nearer than seventy
five feet (75') to any bank, dock or other structure on said lake. (1980 Code §
18-77)
   K.   Right Of Way:
      1.   Generally: Rowboats shall have the right of way at all times over
sailboats except during sanctioned competitive events. Sailboats shall have the
right of way at all times over motorboats. Police boats have the right of way
over all boats at all times. (1980 Code § 18-78)
      2.   Meeting, Overtaking:
         a.   When two (2) boats are approaching each other "head on" or nearly
so (so as to involve risk of collisions) each boat shall bear to the right and
pass the other boat on its left side.
         b.   When motor propelled boats approach each other obliquely, or at a
right angle, the boat approaching on the right side has the right of way.
         c.   One boat may overtake another on either side but shall grant
right of way to the overtaken boat. (1980 Code § 18-79)
   L.   Stopping Ability: No person shall operate any boat at a rate of speed
greater than will permit him, in the exercise of reasonable care, to bring the
boat to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead. (1980 Code § 18-80)
   M.   Lookout: The operator of a boat on Lake Ponca shall keep a proper
lookout at all times while under way. (1980 Code § 18-81)
   N.   Jet Skis, Ski Bikes Or Similar Devices:
      1.   Designated Area: Jet skis, ski bikes or similar devices may be
operated in the East Lake of Lake Ponca at no wake, not to exceed fifteen (15)
miles per hour. (1980 Code § 18-82)
      2.   Regulations: All jet skis, ski bikes or similar devices must be
registered with the state of Oklahoma and licensed by the city. All operators
of such devices must wear United States coast guard life preservers at all
times, and operators of such equipment must conform to the water rules,
regulations and safety laws which apply to the operation of boats in Lake
Ponca. (1980 Code § 18-83)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
9-5-9: WATERSKIING:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, the term "waterskiing"
shall mean the activity of being propelled along the water upon devices known
as skis and being at the same time towed by some type of boat and shall include
the use of surfboards, ski bikes, or any other device which may be used to
sustain any person upon the water while being towed by a motorboat. (1980 Code
§ 18-91)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for the operation of any boat
to engage in the activity of waterskiing at Lake Ponca, if such boat does not
have a permit to participate in the activity of waterskiing.
      2.   Permit Fees:
         a.   The fees for waterskiing permits shall be in such amounts as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time.
         b.   Said permit fees are not negotiable, transferable or refundable.
      3.   Duration Of Permit:
         a.   Annual waterskiing permits shall be valid for one year, from
January 1 until December 31.
         b.   Daily waterskiing permits shall be valid from eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. until sunset of the day for which issued.
      4.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit for waterskiing shall be
negotiable or transferable, and only the boat the permit is issued for shall be
entitled to use the same.
      5.   Revocation Of Permit: Upon application by the city attorney, notice
thereof to the permittee, and hearing, the municipal judge may revoke or
suspend any permit issued under the provisions of this section for permittee's
violation of any applicable provision of state law or this code.
   C.   Area Restricted: No person shall engage in waterskiing on Lake Ponca
except in the areas outlined by buoys for such activity by the park ranger.
(Ord. 6228, 2-13-2017)
   D.   Inexperienced Boat Operators: Persons inexperienced in boat operations
or persons under the age of fifteen (15) years shall not operate a boat which
is engaged in activity skiing upon Lake Ponca, unless accompanied by an adult
experienced in boat operations. (1980 Code § 18-94)
   E.   Proximity To Other Boats: At no time shall boats approach a boat
pulling skiers closer than fifty feet (50') to the boat or skiers. (1980 Code §
18-100)
   F.   Traffic Pattern: A counterclockwise pattern shall be maintained by all
boats in designated ski area on West Lake Ponca. (1980 Code § 18-101)
   G.   Maximum Number Of Skiers: No more than two (2) skiers shall be
permitted to be pulled by the same boat at any one time. (1980 Code § 18-102)
   H.   Swimming: (Rep. by Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
   I.   Personal Flotation Device: It shall be unlawful for any person to
manipulate water skis, surfboards or similar devices on Lake Ponca unless said
person being towed is wearing a coast guard approved flotation device. All
persons twelve (12) years of age or under shall wear a coast guard approved
flotation device while engaged in any water activity on Lake Ponca. (1980 Code
§ 18-105)
   J.   Speed: No boat shall be operated at a speed greater than thirty five
(35) miles per hour in the ski area of Lake Ponca without special permission
from the park ranger; boats shall be operated on East Lake at no wake not to
exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour. (1980 Code § 18-106; amd. 2003 Code)
   K.   Extra Passenger; Safety Precaution: No boat shall operate on Lake Ponca
while pulling one or more persons engaged in the activity of waterskiing if
said boat does not have another individual besides the operator of said boat
above twelve (12) years of age, or unless a rearview mirror has been installed
on such vessel in such manner as to permit the person operating said vessel to
face the direction of travel and be in a position to observe the progress of
the person or persons being towed. (1980 Code § 18-107)
9-5-10: FISHING:
   A.   Compliance With Local Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person
to fish at Lake Ponca except in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(1980 Code § 18-119)
   B.   Licensing Requirements:
      1.   Required: Only those persons owning a current state fishing license
and a current city fishing license shall be permitted to fish in Lake Ponca.
(1980 Code § 18-136)
      2.   Eligibility: Any person legally entitled to fish in the state shall
be eligible for a city fishing license. (1980 Code § 18-137)
      3.   Annual License Fees:
         a.   The fees for fishing permits for Lake Ponca shall be in such
amounts as established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to
time.
         b.   Said permit fees are not negotiable, transferable or refundable.
(1980 Code § 18-138; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Waiver Of Fee: Any person entitled to fish in the state but exempt
by state law from purchasing a state fishing license may, upon application to
the park ranger, be issued a city fishing license without charge. (1980 Code §
18-140; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   Possession, Display: Each person licensed to fish in Lake Ponca
shall carry his licenses upon his person while fishing and produce them upon
demand of any city employee authorized to require the same. (1980 Code § 18-
141)
   C.   Use Of Boats Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to fish
from a boat unless such boat has been licensed to operate on the lake. (1980
Code § 18-120)
   D.   Safety Rules: Proper observance of rules for safety of all fishermen or
other persons legally upon Lake Ponca shall be strictly observed. (1980 Code §
18-121)
   E.   Restricted In Ski Areas: No fishing will be permitted in the ski area
as outlined by the park ranger after twelve o'clock (12:00) noon.
   F.   Size And Bag Limits:
      1.   Compliance With State Law: Size and bag limits shall be the same
size and bag limits as set forth by state laws and regulations with exceptions
noted in subsection F2, "Certain Fish, Specific Limits", of this section.
      2.   Certain Fish, Specific Limits: No largemouth bass or smallmouth bass
may be removed from Lake Ponca unless the length of each exceeds fourteen
inches (14"). Aggregate daily creel of largemouth, smallmouth and/or spotted
bass shall not exceed six (6) fish each day. Aggregate daily creel of white
bass and striped bass hybrids shall not exceed five (5) fish each and only two
(2) of the striped bass hybrids may be twenty inches (20") or longer. No
walleye or saugeye may be removed from Lake Ponca unless their length is a
minimum of eighteen inches (18") and a daily creel of six (6) fish.
   G.   Seines, Nets And Traps: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
seines, trawl nets or traps for fishing and/or catching game fish. Casting nets
and handheld dip nets may be used for taking nongame fish species only as bait
for personal use at Lake Ponca, not to exceed fifty (50) nongame fish,
including shad. Casting nets shall have a mesh size not to exceed three-eighths
inch (3/8") square. All persons utilizing these methods are required to have a
valid Lake Ponca fishing permit and a valid state of Oklahoma fishing license.
   H.   Lures, Baits Restricted: Only artificial lures and live bait, such as
worms, minnows or crawfish or fresh bait, such as fresh and unspoiled or
untainted shrimp, liver, beef, or other fresh meats which would be fit for
human consumption, may be used for fishing bait in Lake Ponca.
   I.   Trotlines Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to use throw
lines, trotlines, limb lines, jug lines or other similar devices commonly
referred to as trotline fishing in Lake Ponca.
   J.   Refuse: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or otherwise
deposit bait, trash or other refuse into the lake.
   K.   Noodling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to noodle in
Lake Ponca. (Ord. 6228, 2-13-2017)
9-5-11: CAMPING:
   A.   Use Of Campgrounds; Permission Required: The provisions of this section
are hereby established for all persons using or present at the city operated
camping facilities at Lake Ponca, and all camping, including the use of tents,
recreational camping vehicles and camping units, is limited to use in such
designated camping areas, except for camping by organized groups or individuals
at organized events with permission to camp elsewhere first being obtained from
the park ranger. (1980 Code § 18-153; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   The fees for rentals at Lake Ponca campgrounds shall be in such
amounts as established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to
time.
      2.   Individuals fifty five (55) years old and older will pay reduced
fees in such amounts as established by resolution of the board of commissioners
from time to time. (1980 Code § 18-154; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Maximum Period Of Time: No one person or group of persons shall be
allowed to camp within any camping area for more than two (2) weeks. (1980 Code
§ 18-155)
   D.   Misuse Of Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy or
otherwise misuse any facility at a camping area. (1980 Code § 18-156)
   E.   Speed Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle
at a rate of speed in excess of ten (10) miles per hour in any camping area.
(1980 Code § 18-157)
   F.   Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or remain standing
any vehicle except in areas specifically designated for such purposes. (1980
Code § 18-158)
   G.   Clearance Between Trailers: A distance of eight feet (8') shall be
maintained at all times between trailers and other camping or recreational
vehicles parked in camping areas. (1980 Code § 18-159)
   H.   Trash Disposal: Any and all trash generated by any person within a
camping area shall be placed in refuse containers provided therefor. (1980 Code
§ 18-160; amd. 2003 Code)
   I.   Fires Restricted: All fires set within camping areas shall be in
designated areas. (1980 Code § 18-161)
   J.   Dogs Or Cats: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit a
dog or cat to be within any camping area unless such dog or cat is on a leash
at all times. (1980 Code § 18-162; amd. 2003 Code)
   K.   Noise Control: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motorcycle, motor bicycle, television or phonographic equipment after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. within the camping facilities. (1980 Code § 18-163)
   L.   Disturbances: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb other
persons in the camping areas by any loud or unusual noise, loud language or by
any other improper behavior. (1980 Code § 18-164)
9-5-12: NATURE CENTER AND WETLANDS PROTECTION AREA:
   A.   Reservation Of Nature Center: An area of approximately thirty (30)
acres located in the southeast corner of Lake Ponca Park, generally described
as southeast quarter of section 19, township 26 north, range 3 east shall be
reserved for a nature center. (1980 Code § 18-170)
   B.   Use Of Nature Center: The nature center shall be for the use and
benefit of the residents of Ponca City and shall be an outdoor laboratory for
the education of students of the Ponca City public schools. (1980 Code § 18-
171; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Wetlands: Within the nature center, an area generally located along the
northern and western boundary, comprising approximately one and seven-tenths
(1.7) acres, and delineated in exhibit A attached to ordinance 5763 on file in
the office of the city clerk, shall be deemed wetlands under the federal
definition of section 404, clean water act of January 1992. Such wetlands shall
be preserved and protected by the city in accordance with environmental
concerns. (1980 Code § 18-172; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-13: SWIMMING IN LAKE PONCA PERMITTED; HOURS; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Swimming in Lake Ponca is only permitted during daylight hours between
dawn and dusk in the following areas:
      1.   Any designated shoreside or beachside water area marked by a
floating buoy line that separates the designated swimming zone from the rest of
the lake, and is identified by signage allowing swimming; and
      2.   Permitted or city-owned ski docks allow swimming between the
proximate shoreline and lake facing edge of the dock;
   B.   Swimming in Lake Ponca is always prohibited and considered a violation
in the following areas:
      1.   The west fishing dock, east fishing dock, Hartford ramp, Windmill
Cove dock, and the deep-water-make-ready-dock are always closed to swimming.
      2.   A dive or jump into the lake from an elevation higher than two feet
(2') above the surface of the lake water or in an area in which swimming is not
permitted.
   C.   No water vessels of any kind shall be operated in or approach nearer
than fifty feet (50') to swimming areas designated by connected buoys. (Ord.
6122, 7-12-2010; amd. Ord. 6352, 4-14-2025)
9-5-14: PADDLEBOARDS:
Paddleboards shall be allowed on Lake Ponca under the same processes and for
the same fees as other vessels. Paddleboards may launch from Lake Ponca boat
ramps, public ski docks, private docks or any public shore area adjacent to a
no wake area; they shall be restricted to slow speed within no wake zones, and
operated during daylight hours only. Paddleboards must be equipped with a
whistle, and a coast guard approved personal flotation device must be worn by
operator. (Ord. 6217, 1-25-2016)
9-5-15: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
9-5-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
9-5-17: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
9-5-18: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
9-5-19: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
9-5-20: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall be an offense punishable
within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6122, 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
9-6-1: Operation Of Motor Vehicles
9-6-2: Glass Beverage Containers
9-6-3: Closing Hours For City Parks
9-6-1: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
All motorized vehicles are prohibited from operating in public parks and upon
public lands of the city except as follows:
   A.   Authorized service and maintenance equipment.
   B.   Motorized vehicles bearing current licenses for the state in which they
are registered may operate in those areas maintained for roadways and vehicular
parking areas.
   C.   Motorized vehicles not bearing current licenses for the state of
residence of the owner may operate in specific areas designated for their
operation by the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 23-1)
9-6-2: GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or to use glass
beverage containers in any of the city parks or in any area belonging to the
city in the vicinity of Lake Ponca. (1980 Code § 23-2)
9-6-3: CLOSING HOURS FOR CITY PARKS:
   A.   All city parks will be closed to the public at eleven o’clock (11:00
p.m.) and remained closed until six o’clock (6:00 a.m.) each day unless
otherwise designated.
   B.   Lake Ponca Park, duck ponds area, shall be closed to the public at ten
o’clock (10:00 p.m.) until seven o’clock (7:00 a.m.) each day.
   C.   The grounds of Lake Ponca shall be closed to the public at midnight
(12:00 a.m.) until five o’clock (5:00 a.m.) daily and shall exclude lake lots,
boat ramps, open water of Lake Ponca or shoreline used for fishing.
   D.   Public sidewalks in parks immediately adjacent to public streets and
paved trails in parks shall not be subject to these hours of use limitations.
   E.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any person to be
present in a city park or to use park facilities except during the posted hours
the park is open to the public.
   F.   Programs or events sponsored as approved by the city, or for which a
city permit has been issued, may be extended during any such program or event
and for a period of sixty (60) minutes prior or following the beginning or
conclusion of such program or event.
   G.   Signs stating park hours shall be posted prominently in each park.
   H.   A violation of any part of this chapter shall be considered a
misdemeanor offense.
      1.   The penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of up to two hundred
dollars ($200.00), plus any court costs.
      2.   The penalty for a second or subsequent offense of this chapter shall
be a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus any court costs.
      3.   The remedies set forth in this chapter are not exclusive and may be
used in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this code or by law. Nothing
in this chapter shall preclude the city from seeking to obtain voluntary
compliance by way of warning, notice or informational materials.
(Ord. 6350, 12-23-2024)
CHAPTER 7
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: City Jurisdiction
9-7-3: Business Standards
9-7-4: Entry On Private Property
9-7-5: Injury Prohibited
9-7-6: Removal Of Dead Or Decayed Trees And Shrubs (Rep. by Ord. 6006, 8-23-
2004)
9-7-7: Overhead Electric Lines
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
CREW: One or more persons engaged in servicing trees at any one location,
residence, or business.
SHRUB: A woody plant with one or more stems or trunks at ground level that will
not reach a height of fifteen feet (15') at maturity.
TREE: A woody perennial plant that has an average trunk or stem diameter of
three inches (3") or greater at maturity and/or height of fifteen feet (15') or
more at maturity.
TREE SERVICE: Work performed on trees specifically excluding shrubbery and
including tree removals, tree trimming and cavity work, spraying for pests and
disease control, and fertilizing.
TREE SERVICEMAN: Any person servicing trees other than one working on his own
property. (Ord. 6039, 4-24-2006)
9-7-2: CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   Park Department: The park department is hereby granted jurisdiction,
authority, control and supervision over all trees, plants and shrubs planted or
growing in or upon the public highways and public places in the city, and the
removal, maintenance and trimming thereof, except for those duties assigned to
citizens by title 6, chapter 2A of this code. (Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
   B.   Foremen Generally: It shall be the duty of the foreman of each crew to
properly supervise and direct the work of the crew of which he is in charge. He
shall be responsible for any violations or infractions of the provisions of
this chapter committed by himself or any member of his crew. (1980 Code § 35-5)
9-7-3: BUSINESS STANDARDS:
Every person engaging in the business or calling of the servicing of trees
within the city shall comply with all rules, regulations and specifications
promulgated therefor by the superintendent of parks of the city. (1980 Code §
35-6)
9-7-4: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as authorizing park
department personnel to make entry onto private property beyond the city right
of way unless the permission of the property owner is first obtained. Such
permission shall be in writing. (1980 Code § 35-2)
9-7-5: INJURY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street
or alley in the city; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and
proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1980 Code § 35-3)
9-7-6: REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DECAYED TREES AND SHRUBS:
(Rep. by Ord. 6006, 8-23-2004)
9-7-7: OVERHEAD ELECTRIC LINES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The planting or allowing of trees to grow within any
alleyway, street or utility easement in which overhead electric transmission or
distribution lines exist by the owner of said property, which said trees are of
a variety that may grow to within fifteen feet (15') of any electrical
transmission or distribution line, is hereby determined to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   Removal Or Trimming Of Trees Upon Notification: The owner of any
property upon which trees are planted or permitted to grow within an alleyway,
street or utility easement containing an overhead electric transmission or
distribution line which said trees are of a variety which may grow to within
fifteen feet (15') of an electrical transmission or distribution line shall,
when notified by the general manager of Ponca City energy or such person or
persons duly designated by him, remove said tree or trees or trim said tree or
trees more than fifteen feet (15') from an electrical transmission or
distribution line.
   C.   List Of Permitted Trees And Shrubs: The park superintendent of the city
shall maintain a list of trees and shrubs which may be planted in alleyways,
easements or street rights of way, and the property owner may obtain a list of
such trees and shrubs from the park superintendent and the planting of the
trees and shrubs so listed shall not constitute a public nuisance.
   D.   Authority To Trim Or Remove: Ponca City energy or its duly authorized
representatives, is authorized to trim any and all trees and shrubs within any
alleyway, street or utility easement containing overhead electrical
transmission or distribution lines when said trees or shrubs are within fifteen
feet (15') of any overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines; or if
said shrubs or trees are in said alleyway, street right of way or utility
easement containing overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines and
said trees or shrubs impose a continuing hazard to said electrical transmission
or distribution lines, which said hazard cannot be eliminated by trimming said
trees or shrubs, the general manager of Ponca City energy or persons under his
direction may cause such trees or shrubs to be removed.
   E.   Penalty For Failure To Remove Nuisance Tree Or Shrub: If the owner of
the property upon which said tree or shrub above described are located in any
street, alley or utility easement containing electrical transmission or
distribution lines shall not remove or trim any such tree or shrub within
thirty (30) days after notification by the general manager of Ponca City energy
such failure to remove such nuisance is declared to be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction therefor, the person, firm or corporation failing to act shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that such failure to remove or trim said tree
or shrub shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 35-7;
amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES 1
SECTION:
9-8-1: Water Service Lines; Installation, Tapping Mains
9-8-2: Permit For Tapping Water Or Sewer Systems
9-8-3: Sewer Connection Restrictions
9-8-4: Annual Review Of Rate Schedules
9-8-5: Zoning Compliance; Termination Of Utility Services
9-8-6: Low And Moderate Income Developers; Hookup Required
9-8-7: Fluoridation Of Water Supply
9-8-8: Poles Restricted
9-8-9: Prohibited Deposits In Sewers
9-8-10: Tampering With, Damaging Electrical Equipment
9-8-11: Pollution Of Water Supply
9-8-12: Water And Sewer Line Extensions Outside City Limits
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 161 and 162 of the city charter.
9-8-1: WATER SERVICE LINES; INSTALLATION, TAPPING MAINS:
The following requirements shall be observed by all persons installing water
service lines and tapping water mains of the city:
   A.   Excavation Permit 1 : Before tapping any water main or laying a water
service, a permit to open the street must first be obtained from the city
engineer upon application to and the placing of deposit with the city engineer,
as required by this code.
   B.   Inspection: No persons other than those authorized by the environmental
services department shall tap the water mains of the city or lay the necessary
service lines to the water meters. Upon completion of the work of tapping the
main and laying of the service line, it shall be the duty of the person doing
the work to cause the same to be inspected by the water foreman, and approved
by him, before the lines are again covered or the street repaired.
   C.   Connections And Installation: On cast iron and ductile iron pipes, all
corporation cocks must be firmly screwed in place and must not tighten against
the shoulder of the cock. They shall be of such pattern as to allow connecting
up of the service line with as few fittings as possible. On PVC pipes,
connections shall be made with a saddle and corporation stop.
      1.   All three-fourths inch (3/4") and one inch (1") service lines from
the water main to meter must be of government type K extra heavy copper pipe,
continuous from main to the water meter, with a Mueller or equal ground key
curb stop placed back of the curb.
      2.   All one and one-fourth inch (11/4") or larger service lines must be
extra heavy copper pipe or class one hundred fifty (150) pounds cast iron pipe,
continuous from main to the water meter, with a ground key curb stop or a
suitable one hundred fifty (150) pounds brass or cast iron gate valve placed
back of the curb. No galvanized or black fittings, or pipe will be allowed
between the main and meter.
      3.   Where a series of taps in the water main are being made to feed a
large pipe or header to a large pipe, the number of copper goose necks must
equal the flow of the connecting pipe, and the proposed layout must first be
approved by the environmental services director. (1980 Code § 29-1; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  9-2-6 of this title.
9-8-2: PERMIT FOR TAPPING WATER OR SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Required: It shall be an offense against the city for any person to
tap, open or connect with any water main, water pipe, sewer or sewer pipe
unless and until he shall have received a written permit from the environmental
services director to do so. (1980 Code § 29-10; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Liability Of City: The environmental services director is authorized to
issue the permit mentioned in subsection A of this section upon the condition
that the city shall be saved harmless from any damage suffered by any property
owner by reason of such water backing into any basement, sumps, blowoff tanks,
or things of like nature. (1980 Code § 29-11; amd. 2003 Code)
9-8-3: SEWER CONNECTION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Connections To Sewers At Risk: Any person receiving the written permit
mentioned in subsection 9-8-2A of this chapter shall take notice that the
sanitary sewer system of the city is constructed from the street level and up,
and that during times of flood or other emergencies when the capacity of the
sewer system is reached, sewage water is apt to back up to the extent of
overflowing the manholes; therefore, any person connecting with any sewer line
or who has heretofore connected any basement, sumps, blowoff tanks, and things
of like nature, and which are connected below the natural overflow of the
sewer, connect the same at his own risk. (1980 Code § 29-12)
   B.   Sewer Taps, Size Restricted: No sewer tap or connection of any type
shall be made or maintained on any sanitary sewer main or submain owned or
maintained by the city which is twelve inches (12") or more in diameter, except
at a manhole upon said main or submain. (1980 Code § 29-14)
9-8-4: ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATE SCHEDULES:
The board of commissioners shall, during the month of April of each year,
review in detail the rate schedules for water, electric, sewer and solid waste
services in the city and shall make such changes therein as may be necessary so
as to provide adequate funds for municipal services. (Ord. 5989, 9-8-2003, eff.
10-1-2003)
9-8-5: ZONING COMPLIANCE; TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICES:
   A.   Zoning Permitted Uses: No property within the city shall receive
utility services provided by the city unless that property's use or proposed
use is permitted by zoning ordinances which are or would be applicable to such
property.
   B.   Inconsistent Use; Hearing: At such time as the city planner determines
the proposed use of property is inconsistent with the present zoning
classification of the property or that the present use of the property is
inconsistent with its zoning, he shall so inform the board of commissioners by
scheduling a hearing before the board of commissioners. (1980 Code § 29-16)
   C.   Terminate Utility Service: If at such hearing the board of
commissioners determines that the proposed or present use of the property is
not permitted by the property's zoning classification, they shall cause utility
services to be terminated. (1980 Code § 29-16; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing; Issuance Of Notice: The hearing above referenced
shall be conducted expeditiously but with reasonable and actual notice to the
occupants of the property, opportunity to be heard and opportunity to confront
witnesses. Actual notice of this hearing may be provided pursuant to Oklahoma
Statutes or by personal delivery of notice of hearing to an occupant or
employee on the premises. (1980 Code § 29-16)
9-8-6: LOW AND MODERATE INCOME DEVELOPERS; HOOKUP REQUIRED:
All low and moderate income developers, landowners and commercial and
manufacturing businesses in the city that are within three hundred feet (300')
of the infrastructure financed in part by the Oklahoma department of commerce
(ODOC) CDBG-EDF located thereon, shall be required to hook up to city water,
sewer, electric, and utility services and shall do as follows: (1980 Code § 29-
17; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   The phrases "low income" and "moderate income" shall be as defined by
the U.S. department of housing and urban development.
   B.   Each entity shall pay for their own utilities, yard service lines and
hookups to the city's utility systems.
   C.   Should an entity or person "household" that is hooking on to the
utility systems be determined by the city as an entity or person "household"
that is defined as a "low income" household using the U.S. department of
housing and urban development low and moderate income definitions, such hookup
shall be paid for by the city.
   D.   Each entity hooking up to the city's sewer, water, solid waste, and
electric services served by these infrastructure improvements shall provide
employment and beneficiary information on a quarterly basis for a period of at
least two (2) years after the infrastructure improvements project achieves
final closeout. (1980 Code § 29-17)
9-8-7: FLUORIDATION OF WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Authorized: The water treatment plant superintendent is hereby
authorized to institute fluoridation of the water supply of the city, the
maximum content of fluorides to be not more than 1.2 parts per million. (1980
Code § 29-6; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Approval: The application of fluorides to the city water supply shall
only be started after the state health department has:
      1.   Received plans and specifications as required by law.
      2.   Approved the type of chemical feeding equipment to be installed and
used.
      3.   Approved the installation of equipment, plant layout, and methods of
handling the fluoride compounds to assure the safety of employees.
      4.   Approved the methods of analysis and control to be used in
determining the fluoride content of the water before and after the addition of
fluorides.
      5.   Appraised and approved the qualifications of the personnel who will
make the necessary analyses to control the application of fluorides. (1980 Code
§ 29-7)
   C.   Compliance: The control and testing of the water before and after
fluoridation and the method of determining the fluoride content of the water
and the test for purity of the fluoride chemical shall, in all respects, comply
with the rules and standards set up by the state department of health. (1980
Code § 29-8)
9-8-8: POLES RESTRICTED 1 :
There shall not be established in any alleyway, public easement or along any
street of the city more than one line or row of telephone poles or power poles.
Any franchise holder having a right to the use of said streets, alleyways or
public easements shall either attach to existing poles, or being unable to do
so, place all facilities underground in conformance with proper safety
procedures. (1980 Code § 29-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 39, 42 and 144 of the city charter.
9-8-9: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS IN SEWERS 1 :
No person shall deposit or throw or cause to be deposited or thrown into any
sewer inlet, manhole, privy vault, or cesspool which has a sewer connection,
any animal or vegetable substance, or any hay, straw, ashes, cinders, sticks,
shavings, trash, soot, oyster shells or cans, broken ware, rags, pieces of iron
or other metal, old wearing apparel, or any article or thing whatever that is
liable to cause the sewer to choke up or otherwise obstruct the free flow of
water therein. (1980 Code § 29-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-8B-9 of this chapter.
9-8-10: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, without lawful authority,
to:
   A.   Interfere with, change, modify, move or obstruct any electrical wiring
being installed in or on any building, pole or fixture.
   B.   Retard, accelerate or prevent electric current passing through any
meter belonging to the city or any company engaged in the manufacture or sale
of electricity for light, power or other purposes.
   C.   Divert any electric current from any wiring belonging to any other
person or any company engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity for
light, power or other purposes. (1980 Code § 29-4)
9-8-11: POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit excrement or foul or decaying
matter in, or in any manner to corrupt, any spring or reservoir or other source
of water used for domestic purposes, or to place the carcass of a dead animal
or any refuse or filth upon any watershed draining into any lake or reservoir
of the city, or to aid or abet in any such act. (1980 Code § 29-5)
9-8-12: WATER AND SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS 1 :
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to establish city policy
that, with the exception of rural water districts and existing water trusts,
Ponca City water and sewer services shall not be extended outside the city
limits. Such policy will ensure that Ponca City does not directly subsidize new
developments which do not meet city standards, will eliminate private lines
over which the city has no control and will aide in the enforcement of existing
city codes.
   B.   Statement Of Policy:
      1.   There is hereby established a policy that city water and sewer
services shall no longer be provided outside the city limits.
      2.   Said policy shall not affect the sale of quantities of treated water
to existing rural water districts or other existing water trusts nor shall it
affect those developments outside Ponca City presently receiving city water
and/or sewer services.
      3.   Developers who desire city services may petition the city for
annexation if said city services are desired. Developers shall then be
restricted to build according to existing city codes. (Policy, 6-1-1983)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 9-8A-7 of this chapter.
ARTICLE A. ELECTRIC AND WATER SERVICES
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Water Meters
9-8A-2: Electricity Rates
9-8A-3: Reserved
9-8A-4: Reserved
9-8A-5: Tapping Mains
9-8A-6: Water Rates
9-8A-7: Rural Water Petitioners; Deposit Required
9-8A-8: Reserved
9-8A-9: Billing Due Date; Delinquencies
9-8A-10: Voluntary Discontinuance Of Service
9-8A-1: WATER METERS:
   A.   Required: Meters for the measurement of utility services furnished by
the City shall be furnished and installed by and shall remain the property of
the City. (1980 Code § 29-43)
   B.   Access: Free access to utility meters shall be granted the City at all
reasonable times. (1980 Code § 29-44)
9-8A-2: ELECTRICITY RATES:
The following electricity rates are hereby established:
   A.   Residential: The following rate schedule is applicable to any
residential customer, including private dwellings and individually metered
apartments supplied at one point of delivery, or metered with one meter. These
rates are not applicable to resale, breakdown, or standby service, but are
applicable throughout the territory served by the Ponca City Electric Utility:
      1.   City Customers: All residential customers within the City limits
shall pay a monthly customer charge in addition to each kilowatt-hour as
follows:
 
Monthly Customer Charge               $ 11.28
Summer Season --Per kWh               $ 0.111
(May through September usage periods)
Winter Season - Per kWh          
(October through April usage periods)
   First 600 kWh                   $ 0.111
   Over 600 kWh                    $ 0.079
 
      2.   Rural Customers: All residential customers outside the City limits
shall pay a monthly customer charge in addition to each kilowatt-hour as
follows:
 
Monthly Customer Charge               $ 16.88
Summer Season --Per kWh               $ 0.115
(May through September usage periods)
Winter Season - Per kWh                
(October through April usage periods)
   First 600 kWh                   $ 0.115
   Over 600 kWh                    $ 0.081
 
      3.   Electric Water Heater Customers within City limits: All residential
customers within the City limits using approved electric water heaters with a
capacity of 40 gallons or more may be charged as follows:
Monthly Customer Charge               $ 11.28
Summer Season --Per kWh                
(May through September usage periods)
   First 400 kWh                   $ 0.079
   Over 400 kWh                    $ 0.111
Winter Season - Per kWh                
(October through April usage periods)
   First 400 kWh                   $ 0.079
   Next 600 kWh                    $ 0.111
   Over 1,000 kWh                  $ 0.079
 
      4.   Electric Water Heater Customers without City limits: All residential
customers outside the City limits using approved electric water heaters with a
capacity of 40 gallons or more, may be charged as follows:
Monthly Customer Charge               $ 16.88
Summer Season --Per kWh                
(May through September usage periods)
   First 400 kWh                   $ 0.081
   Over 400 kWh                    $ 0.115
Winter Season - Per kWh                
(October through April usage periods)
   First 400 kWh                   $ 0.081
   Next 600 kWh                    $ 0.115
   Over 1,000 kWh                  $ 0.081
 
      5.   Distributed Generation Customers: All residential customers with
behind-the-meter equipment shall pay a monthly customer charge as follows:
Monthly Customer Charge               $ 47.28
All residential customers with behind-the-meter equipment shall pay for each
kilowatt-hour received from the electrical system as follows:
Summer Season --Per kWh                
(May through September usage periods)
   First 1,000 kWh                 $ 0.075
   Over 1,000 kWh                  $ 0.111
Winter Season - Per kWh                
(October through April usage periods)
   First 1,000 kWh                 $ 0.075
   Over 1,000 kWh                  $ 0.079
All residential customers with behind the meter generation equipment shall be
credited for each kWh delivered to the electrical system as follows:
   Per kWh                         $ 0.036
 
   B.   General Power: For those customers inside the City limits not
classified as residential, and not qualifying for the medium power, large power
or Municipal classification, the following charges shall apply:
      1.   City Customers:
 
Monthly Customer Charge (Inside City Limits) $ 15.89
All kWh used                                 $ 0.110
 
   For those customers outside the City limits not classified as residential,
and not qualifying for the medium power, large power or Municipal
classification, the following charges shall apply:
      2.   Rural Customers:
 
Monthly Customer Charge (Outside City Limits) $ 23.84
All kWh used                                  $ 0.113
 
      3.   Distributed Generation Customers: For those customers not classified
as residential, and not qualifying for the medium power, large power or
Municipal classification, with behind-the-meter generation equipment, the
following charges and credits apply:
 
Monthly Customer Charge $ 52.54
   
   All general power customers with behind-the-meter equipment shall pay for
each kilowatt-hour received from the electrical system as follows:
 
First 1,000 kWh $ 0.075
Over 1,000 kWh  $ 0.110
 
   All general power customers with behind-the-meter generation equipment shall
be credited for each kilowatt-hour delivered to the electrical system as
follows:
 
Per kWh $ 0.036
 
   C.   Medium Power: Those non-residential customers which use, or can
reasonably anticipate to use, an average of 80,000 kWh per month may be
classified as
   Medium Power customers should they chose to do so. Customers who request to
be changed to the Medium Power classification from another classification shall
remain in the Medium Power classification for one (1) year before being
permitted to change rates again.
      1.   Charges:
 
Monthly Customer Charge                  $ 26.48
Demand Charge - Per kW:                   
   Summer Season
   (May through September usage       $ 15.89
   periods)
   Winter Season                      $ 9.28
   (October through April usage periods)
Energy Charge - Per kWh                  $ 0.067
 
      2.   Determination Of Maximum Demand: The customer’s maximum demand shall
be the maximum rate at which energy is used for any period of fifteen (15)
consecutive minutes of the month for which the bill is rendered and shown by
the demand meter. In the event a customer taking service under this rate has a
demand meter with an interval greater than fifteen (15) minutes, the City shall
have a reasonable time to change the metering device. In the event a demand
meter does not exist, the customer shall be responsible for all cost associated
with the installation of a demand metering device.
      3.   Determination Of Billing Demand: The billing demand upon which the
demand charge is based shall be the maximum demand as determined above
corrected for power factor, as set forth under the power factor clause;
provided that no billing demand shall be considered as less than sixty percent
(60%) of the highest summer season maximum demand corrected for power factor
previously determined during the twelve (12) months ending with the current
month.
      4.   Power Factor Clause: The consumer shall at all times take and use
power in such manner that the power factor shall be as nearly one hundred
percent (100%) as possible, but when the average power factor as determined by
continuous measurement of lagging reactive kilo-volt-ampere hours is less than
eighty-five percent (85%), the billing demand shall be determined by
multiplying the maximum demand, shown by the demand meter for the billing
period, by eighty-five (85) and dividing the product thus obtained by the
actual average power factor expressed in percent. The City may, at its option,
use for adjustment the power factor as determined by tests during periods of
normal operation of the customer’s equipment instead of the average power
factor.
      5.   Minimum Bill: The minimum bill shall be the customer charge plus a
minimum demand charge based on one hundred fifty (150) kW of demand.
   D.   Medium Power And Large Power Time Of Use: Those customers qualifying
for the Medium and Large Power classification may, at their option, be billed
at rates under this classification. Customers who request to be changed to the
Medium Power and Large Power Time of Use classification shall remain in this
classification for one (1) year before being permitted to change rates again.
      1.   Charges:
 
Customer Charge per bill per month $ 264.94
Demand Charge - Per kW per month:  $ 9.99
On-Peak Hours Billing Demand
Maximum Billing Demand             $ 4.91
Energy Charge - Per kWh            $0.059
 
      2.   Determination Of Maximum Demand: The customer’s maximum demand shall
be the maximum rate at which energy is used for any period of fifteen (15)
consecutive minutes of the month for which the bill is rendered and shown by
the demand meter. In the event a customer taking service under this rate has a
demand meter with an interval greater than fifteen (15) minutes, the City shall
have a reasonable time to change the metering device and the customer shall
bear all costs associated with the installation of a time of use metering
device.
      3.   Determination Of Billing Demand: The billing demand upon which the
demand charge is based shall be the maximum demand as determined above
corrected for power factor, as set forth under the power factor clause;
provided that no billing demand shall be considered as less than sixty percent
(60%) of the highest summer season maximum demand corrected for power factor
previously determined during the twelve (12) months ending with the current
month.
      4.   Determination Of On-Peak Hours Demand: The customer’s on-peak hours
demand shall be the maximum rate at which energy is used for any period of
fifteen (15) consecutive minutes as shown by the City’s demand meter during the
time period beginning one minute past two o’clock (2:01) p.m. through eight
o’clock (8:00) p.m. local time, except Saturdays, Sundays, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, and Labor Day, during the billing months of June through
September.
      5.   Determination Of On-Peak Hours Billing Demand: The monthly on-peak
hours billing demand shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the on-peak hours
demand as determined above, corrected for power factor established during the
most recent billing months of June through September.
      6.   Power Factor Clause: The consumer shall at all times take and use
power in such manner that the power factor shall be as nearly one hundred
percent (100%) as possible, but when the average power factor as determined by
continuous measurement of lagging reactive kilo-volt-ampere hours is less than
eighty five percent (85%), the billing demand shall be determined by
multiplying the maximum demand, shown by the demand meter for the billing
period, by eighty five (85) and dividing the product thus obtained by the
actual average power factor expressed in percent. The City may, at its option,
use for adjustment the power factor as determined by tests during periods of
normal operation of the customer’s equipment instead of the average power
factor.
      7.   Minimum Bill: The minimum bill shall be the customer charge plus a
minimum demand charge based on one hundred fifty (150) kW of demand. The City
may specify a larger minimum monthly bill, when necessary to justify the
investment required to provide service.
      8.   Term: The City, at its option, may require a written contract for a
year or longer subject to special minimum guarantees which may be necessary in
cases warranted by special circumstances or unusually large investments by the
City.
   E.   Large Power: Those non-residential customers which use, or can
reasonably anticipate to use, an average of eight hundred thousand (800,000)
kWh per month may be classified as Large Power customers should they choose to
do so. Customers who request to be changed to the Large Power classification
from another classification shall remain in the Large Power classification for
one (1) year before being permitted to change rates again.
      1.   Charges:
 
Monthly Customer Charge                  $ 264.94
Demand Charge - Per kW
   Summer Season                      $12.59
   (May through September usage periods)
   Winter Season                      $3.97
   (October through April usage periods)
Energy Charge - Per kWh                  $ 0.067
 
      2.   Determination Of Maximum Demand: The customer’s maximum demand shall
be the maximum rate at which energy is used for any period of fifteen (15)
consecutive minutes of the month for which the bill is rendered and shown by
the demand meter. In the event a customer taking service under this rate has a
demand meter with an interval greater than fifteen (15) minutes, the City shall
have a reasonable time to change the metering device.
      3.   Determination Of Billing Demand: The billing demand upon which the
demand charge is based shall be the maximum demand as determined above
corrected for power factor, as set forth under the power factor clause;
provided that no billing demand shall be considered as less than sixty percent
(60%) of the highest summer season maximum demand corrected for power factor
previously determined during the twelve (12) months ending with the current
month.
      4.   Power Factor Clause: The consumer shall at all times take and use
power in such manner that the power factor shall be as nearly one hundred
percent (100%) as possible, but when the average power factor as determined by
continuous measurement of lagging reactive kilo-volt-ampere hours is less than
eighty five percent (85%), the billing demand shall be determined by
multiplying the maximum demand, shown by the demand meter for the billing
period, by eighty five (85) and dividing the product thus obtained by the
actual average power factor expressed in percent. The City may, at its option,
use for adjustment the power factor as determined by tests during periods of
normal operation of the customer’s equipment instead of the average power
factor.
      5.   Minimum Bill: The minimum bill shall be the customer charge plus the
applicable demand charge, based on one hundred fifty (150) kW of demand. The
City may specify a larger minimum monthly bill, when necessary to justify the
investment required to provide service.
      6.   Term: The City, at its option, may require a written contract for a
year or longer subject to special minimum guarantees which may be necessary in
cases warranted by special circumstances or unusually large investments by the
City.
   F.   Municipal Users: For connections servicing facilities owned and/or
operated by the City of Ponca City and its Authorities, the following charges
shall apply:
 
All kWh Used $ 0.101
 
   This rate shall apply only to the City of Ponca City and its Authorities. It
shall not be available to those renting, leasing, or otherwise using City
facilities for private purposes.
   G.   Security Lights: The monthly charges for security lights shall be as
listed below. The City shall determine the type and wattage to provide for any
new or replacement lights.
      1.   For a security light installed on an existing City-owned service
pole and connected to an existing City-owned line, the charge will be seven
dollars ninety-nine cents ($7.99) per month rental fee.
      2.   For a security light which was installed on a City-owned pole set
specifically for that light and served from an underground City electric
service, the charge will be nine dollars twenty-four cents ($9.24) per month
rental fee.
      3.   For a security light installed on a City-owned pole set specifically
for that light requiring a transformer to be installed to serve that light from
an overhead service, the charge will be ten dollars fifty cents ($10.50) per
month rental fee.
      4.   For a security light installed on a City-owned pole set specifically
for that light and fed from a transformer set to serve that light from an
underground service, the charge will be eleven dollars seventy-nine cents
($11.79) per month rental fee.
   5.   A fee of twenty one dollars eighty-seven cents ($21.87) will be charged
for the installation, connection, reinstallation, re-connection, or moving of
each light.
   H.   Classification Of Customers: It shall be the responsibility of the
customer to notify the City Utility Billing Office of any changes in rate
classification.
   I.   Production Cost Adjustment: The Ponca City electric rates, as
published, are based upon the average cost of production or purchase of
electricity of fifty nine and fifty hundredths (59.50) mills ($0.05950) per
kilowatt-hour. The monthly bills, as calculated under the published rate
schedules, shall be increased or decreased for each kilowatt-hour consumed by
an amount computed in accordance with the following formula:
         PCA = (A - B) x 1.090
         Where:   
         PCA =    The production cost adjustment factor (expressed in dollars
per kilowatt-hour) to be applied per kilowatt-hour consumed.
         A =   The cost per kilowatt-hour for fuel when generated by the City
generation plants, or the cost per kilowatt hour for electricity purchased, or
a combination of both, expressed in dollars.
         B =   The base per kilowatt hour (expressed in dollars) used for
upward or downward adjustment to be applied per kilowatt-hour consumed. Base
cost equals $0.05950 per kilowatt-hour.
   J.   Green Power Wind Rider:
      1.   Availability: The green power wind rider is available to all classes
of residential and general power customers and other classifications of
customers by special agreement.
      2.   Rate: The price for each one hundred (100) kilowatt hour block will
be one dollar ($1.00). The Green Power Wind Charge (GPWC) shall be one cent
($0.01) per kilowatt hour and shall be sold in blocks of one hundred (100)
kilowatt hours less corresponding exemptions for production cost adjustment.
Such charge shall be in addition to the applicable standard pricing for each
participant’s total monthly billing.
      3.   Minimum Bill: The monthly customer bill shall be the customer charge
plus the GPWC(s). (Ord. 6040, 5-22-2006; amd. Ord. 6188, 5-27-2014; Ord. 6291,
5-24-2021; Ord. 6327, 5-22-2023; Ord. 6359, 5-27-2025)
9-8A-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 5989, 9-8-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
9-8A-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 5989, 9-8-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
9-8A-5: TAPPING MAINS:
   A.   The City shall be responsible for tapping water mains. Such service
shall consist of installation of the service line to the meter and setting the
meter and meter box.
   B.   The following fees shall apply to such tapping service:
   CHARGES FOR VARIOUS SIZED METERS
 
Meter                Charges
3/4 inch and 1 inch  $1,100.00
11/2 inch and 2 inch 2,100.00
2 inch compound      2,500.00
Over 2 inch          At estimated cost
 
The charges for three-fourths inch (3/4") and one inch (1") meters will include
up to fifty feet (50') of service line only. A fifteen dollar ($15.00) per foot
additional charge will apply in case more than fifty feet (50') of service line
needs to be installed. Similarly, for two inch (2") meters, a twenty dollar
($20.00) per foot additional charge will apply if more than fifty feet (50') of
service line needs to be installed.
Installation fee for a meter in excess of two inches (2") will be determined by
the Water Distribution Division based on field conditions and provided in
written quotation to the customer. (Ord. 6084, 5-27-2008)
9-8A-6: WATER RATES:
The following water rates are hereby established and shall be effective from
the first billing cycle in July 2025:
   A.   Customer base user fee:
 
City residential customer  $12.56 per month
Rural residential customer $18.90 per month
City commercial customer   $37.22 per month
Rural commercial customer  $55.84 per month
Municipal customer         $12.56 per month
 
   B.   Volumetric charges per unit:
 
Low Demand Season (October - April)
Type of Service City  Rural
Residential     $2.14 $2.25
Commercial      $2.14 $2.25
Municipal       $1.86
 
High Demand Season (May - September)
Type of Service City Rural
High Demand Season (May - September)
Type of Service   City  Rural
Residential
   0 - 10 units$2.25 $2.35
Type of Service   City  Rural
   11 - 20 unit$2.35 $2.46
   21 - 50 unit$2.46 $2.61
   51 - 100 uni$2.61 $2.71
   > 100 units $2.71 $2.93
Commercial        $2.14 $2.25
Municipal         $1.86
Note: 1 unit = 100 cubic feet or 748 gallons
 
   C.   Raw (Untreated) Water: Volumetric charge (rate per unit) for raw water
supplied to commercial customer(s) is $0.05 less than the volumetric charge for
the treated water. Raw water shall not be available to residential customers.
   D.   Temporary Hydrant Meters: Ponca City Utility Authority provides
temporary hydrant meters to businesses that have maintained continuous
operation in Ponca City, had a Ponca City utility account and good payment
history for a minimum of five years or who are currently under contract with
the City or its public trusts. Fees and other charges associated with this
service shall be:
      1.   $245.00 deposit (refundable) for a hydrant meter;
      2.   $13.47 per 1,000 gallons of water or portion thereof;
      3.   $30.69 per week for meter rental;
      4.   Full replacement cost of meter if meter is not returned in its
original condition.
   E.   Automatic Water Fill Station - Bulk Water Sales: The Automatic Water
Fill Station shall be used for purchasing bulk water by customers who do not
rent a hydrant meter. This 24/7 station will only accept credit cards. The fees
and other charges associated with this service shall be:
      1.   $13.47 per 1,000 gallons of water or portion thereof;
      2.   Minimum charges $13.47 per use. (Ord. 6239, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord.
6294, 5-24-2021; Ord. 6307, 5-23-2022; Ord. 6324, 5-22-2023; Ord. 6343, 5-28-
2024; Ord. 6356, 5-27-2025)
9-8A-7: RURAL WATER PETITIONERS; DEPOSIT REQUIRED 1 :
From and after the effective date hereof, any petitioner for rural water shall
file along with his petition a deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00) payable to the
City with the City Clerk thereof for the purpose of defraying the estimated
expenses of processing the petition for said rural water. (1980 Code § 29-51.1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-8-12 of this chapter.
9-8A-8: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6180, 8-12-2013)
9-8A-9: BILLING DUE DATE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Billing Time; Discontinuance Of Service: All bills for utility services
furnished by the City shall be due and payable when rendered and shall be
considered delinquent twenty (20) days thereafter. A delinquent bill shall
become subject to the immediate discontinuance of service when the next bill is
rendered showing a previous balance due. (1980 Code § 29-53)
   B.   Penalty For Failure To Pay: In the event that any consumer of utility
services furnished by the City shall fail to pay his bill therefor when the
same is due, a penalty of five dollars ($5.00) shall be imposed for each time a
collector is dispatched to deliver a twenty four (24) hour cutoff notice. (1980
Code § 29-54)
   C.   Reconnection After Disconnection:
      1.   In the event that utility service is disconnected for nonpayment of
the bill, the customer thereof shall have the right to have the same
reconnected only upon the payment of the amount due and, in addition thereto, a
deposit in the amount required for new accounts. (1980 Code § 29-55)
9-8A-10: VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Customers wishing to discontinue the use of any utility service will give
written notice thereof at the City Hall. Failure to do so shall render them
liable for the payment of all bills until such notice has been given. (1980
Code § 29-56)
ARTICLE B. SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Declaration Of Public Utility
9-8B-2: Policy And Objectives
9-8B-3: Definitions
9-8B-4: Administration; Director
9-8B-5: Enforcement Authority Of Director And City Manager
9-8B-6: Use Of Public Sewer Required
9-8B-7: Application Of Plumbing Code
9-8B-8: Prohibited Discharges
9-8B-9: Limitations On Indirect Discharges
9-8B-10: Confidentiality
9-8B-11: Permit For Discharge
9-8B-12: Conditions For Permits
9-8B-13: Industrial Pretreatment Permit Contents
9-8B-14: Charges And Fees
9-8B-15: User Charges; Pretreatment; Sampling; Discharge Permits
9-8B-16: Reserved
9-8B-17: User Charge Schedule
9-8B-18: Excessive Strength Charges
9-8B-19: Toxic Pollutant Charges
9-8B-20: Notification Of Charges
9-8B-21: Charges For Extraneous Flows
9-8B-22: Billings; Delinquencies
9-8B-23: Terminate Service For Failure To Pay Bills; Violations
9-8B-24: New Sewers And Connection
9-8B-25: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
9-8B-26: Special Agreements
9-8B-27: Connections Restricted
9-8B-28: Records
9-8B-29: Access For Sampling
9-8B-30: Volume And Sampling Of Industrial Waste
9-8B-31: Use Of Storm Sewer, Natural Outlet
9-8B-32: Stormwater Prohibited From Sanitary Sewer
9-8B-33: Protection From Damage
9-8B-34: Liability For Loss, Damage
9-8B-35: Right Of Revision
9-8B-36: Validity
9-8B-37: Penalties
9-8B-38: Affirmative Defenses To Violations
9-8B-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY:
The sanitary sewer system of the city is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system and for other purposes. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-2: POLICY AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Objectives: This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of
the publicly owned treatment works for the city and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the clean water act (33
United States Code 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40
code of federal regulations part 403). The objectives of this article are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      3.   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of wastewater and sludge from the
publicly owned treatment works;
      5.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      6.   To enable the city to comply with its Oklahoma pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   B.   Application Of Article: This article shall apply to all users of the
publicly owned treatment works. This article authorizes the issuance of
wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein. (Ord.
6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, certain terms and words are to be used and
interpreted as defined hereinafter:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water
act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The Oklahoma department of environmental quality (ODEQ or
DEQ).
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER: A. If the user is a corporation:
      1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
      2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities employing more than two hundred fifty (250) persons or having gross
annual sales or expenditures exceeding twenty five million dollars
($25,000,000.00) (in second quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   C.   If the user is a federal, state or local government facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this definition
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the city.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: Best management practices or BMPs mean schedules of
activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in sections 2.1A and
B (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements, operating
procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD5: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
CFR: The most recent publication of the code of federal regulations published
by the office of the federal register, national archives and records
administration.
CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC section 1317) that apply to a
specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405 - 471.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager appointed by the board of commissioners of the
city of Ponca City.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A combination of a series of aliquots taken on either a time
or flow proportional basis over a period of time.
CONTROL AUTHORITY: The city of Ponca City.
DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Liquid wastes:
   A.   From preparation, cooking and handling of food; or
   B.   Containing human excrement and similar matter from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions; or
   C.   Collected by floor drains located in commercial establishments that
generate only floor washdown water that does not normally contact significant
amounts of any substance or wastes containing either toxic pollutants defined
under 40 CFR part 401.15, or oil and grease.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency, or where appropriate, the regional water management division director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to the
flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15)
minutes.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from any nondomestic source.
INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE: Wastewater that is not "domestic sewage".
INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER: A source of "indirect discharge".
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
service connections) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders,
cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs and swampy areas,
manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers,
catch basins, cooling towers, stream waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters, or drainage.
INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations,
or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
   B.   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
ODPES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following use statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations); section 405 of the
clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title II, more
commonly referred to as the resource conservation and recovery act (RCRA), and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air act, the toxic
substances control act, and the marine protection, research and sanctuaries
act.
INTERIM LIMIT: A temporary limit established on a case by case basis by the
director for a pollutant for which a specific numerical limit has not been
established.
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT: The highest acceptable concentration of
pollutants or characteristics of a waste discharged to the POTW as established
by the most stringent requirements of this article, a permit or order issued
under the provision of this article, or national pretreatment standard.
MINOR USER: An "industrial user" who is not a "significant industrial user".
MONTHLY AVERAGE: The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that month.
If only one sample is collected in a calendar month, that single sample result
will be the "monthly average".
NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, PRETREATMENT STANDARD, OR STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act, which applies to industrial
users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to
40 CFR part 403.5.
NEW SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of
the act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
   A.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; or
   B.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
   C.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered. Construction of a new site as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
         a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
      2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a
contractual obligation under this subsection.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, or finished
product.
OIL AND GREASE: Substances measured in a laboratory procedure defined in 40 CFR
part 136.
OKLAHOMA POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT OR OPDES PERMIT: A
permit issued to a POTW pursuant to section 402 of the act.
POTW TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, cause a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's OPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation). An industrial user significantly contributes to such permit
violation where it:
   A.   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by
permit with the POTW or by federal, state or local law;
   B.   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature and
constituents from the user's average discharge;
   C.   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a permit violation; or
   D.   Knows or has reason to know that the POTW is, for any reason, violating
its final effluent limitations in its permit and that such industrial user's
discharge, either alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
increases the magnitude or duration of the POTW's violations.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state, and local government entities.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed as the
logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in gram
equivalents per liter of solution.
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, TSS, turbidity,
color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
The reduction or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, process changes or by other means, except by diluting the
concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment
standard. The use of dilution as a substitute for pretreatment is prohibited.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS OR POTW: A treatment works as defined by section
212 of the act (33 USC section 1292), which is owned by the city of Ponca City.
This definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal, sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only
if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant.
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the
treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss
caused by delays in production.
SHALL/MAY: In this article use of the term "shall" is a mandatory requirement.
The term "may" is permissive or discretionary.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: A. All industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards; and
   B.   Any other industrial user that: discharges an average of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater);
contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE: Defined as per subsection 9-8B-29D of this article.
SLUG LOAD OR SLUG: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards. The discharge is a
nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental
spill, or a noncustomary batch discharge.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to the
standard industrial classification manual issued by the United States office of
management and budget.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR TSS: The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-4: ADMINISTRATION; DIRECTOR:
The board of commissioners of the Ponca City utility authority shall appoint a
director of the environmental services department hereinafter referred to as
the "director". Except as otherwise provided herein, the director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers
granted to, or duties imposed upon, the director may be delegated by the
director to others. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-5: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR AND CITY MANAGER:
The city retains all rights, powers, and authority; however, the director and
city manager shall have the authority listed below in addition to the authority
provided elsewhere in this article:
   A.   Application For Permit: The director or his duly authorized agent, or
the city manager may require the users of the POTW to submit an application for
a permit; submit other necessary information about the discharge to the POTW;
or appear at a meeting to discuss the status of compliance with the provisions
of this article. If the user of the POTW fails to submit an application for a
permit, submit other necessary information regarding the discharge to the POTW,
or appear at the meeting with a satisfactory proposal to achieve compliance,
the director may notify the user of the intent to terminate water and/or sewer
service and set a show cause hearing. Pursuant to the findings of the show
cause hearing, the director may terminate water and/or sewer service.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: When the director or his duly authorized agent
finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
article, an industrial pretreatment permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director or his duly authorized
agent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within thirty
(30) days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the director or
his duly authorized agent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user
of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice
of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the director
or city manager to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   C.   Consent Orders: The director may enter into a consent order, assurances
of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to subsections E and F
of this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   D.   Show Cause Hearing: The director or city manager may order a user which
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an
industrial pretreatment permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the director or city
manager and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Compliance Orders: When the director or city manager finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an
industrial pretreatment permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the director or city manager may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued after a
show cause hearing unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders
also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including
additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
   F.   Cease And Desist Order:
      1.   When the director or city manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, an industrial pretreatment
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
director or city manager may issue an order to the user directing such user to
cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
         a.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         b.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continued or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      2.   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency Suspensions:
      1.   The director or city manager may immediately suspend a user's
discharge or discontinue water service, after informal notice to the user,
whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The director or city manager
may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after informal notice, that
threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or
may present, an endangerment to the environment; or which constitutes a gross
violation of this article.
         a.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge or
discontinuation of water service shall immediately stop or eliminate its
contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the director or city manager may take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The director or city manager may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the director or city manager that the period of endangerment
has passed, unless the termination proceedings in subsection H of this section
are initiated against the user.
         b.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement as is describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence as is to the director prior to
the date of any show cause or termination hearing under subsections D and H of
this section.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge And/Or Water Service:
      1.   In addition to the provisions in subsection G of this section, any
user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge termination
and/or termination of water service:
         a.   Violation of industrial pretreatment permit conditions.
         b.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge.
         c.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume constituents and characteristics prior to discharge.
         d.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling.
         e.   Violation of the "pretreatment standards" as defined in section
9-8B-3 of this article.
         f.   Failure to submit an application for a permit.
      2.   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection D of
this section why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this
option by the director or city manager shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-6: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any insanitary manner upon public
or private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Wastewater Treatment: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city any sanitary wastewater, industrial wastes or other polluted waters
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this article. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-7: APPLICATION OF PLUMBING CODE 1 :
Where buildings containing sanitary facilities discharge sanitary wastes to an
industrial sewer, the regulations contained in the plumbing code of the city
will control all wastewater facilities within the building. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-
2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
9-8B-8: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user
(either a domestic or nondomestic source) may not contribute the following to
the POTW:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or facility,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of sewage treatment plant effluent.
      3.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      4.   Pollutants which will result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      5.   Any septic tank waste that does not comply with all provisions
listed below:
         a.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the director, and at such times as are established by
the director. Such waste shall not violate the provisions of this article or
any other requirements established by the city. The director may require septic
tank waste haulers to obtain industrial pretreatment permits and the haulers
must provide copies of their state authorization to haul wastes.
         b.   No load may be discharged without prior consent of the director.
The director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with
applicable standards. The director may require the septic tank waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
         c.   Septic tank waste haulers must have available for review a waste
tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name
and address of the septic tank waste hauler, permit number, truck
identification, names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and
characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known
or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous
wastes. The director may require copies of the waste tracking form.
      6.   Any trucked or hauled waste that does not comply with all provisions
listed below:
         a.   The director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The director may require generators of hauled
industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The director also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this article.
         b.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the director. No load may be discharged without prior consent of
the director. The director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards. The director may require the industrial
waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
         c.   Industrial waste hauler must provide a waste tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of source of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form
shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and
whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes. Waste haulers must provide any
additional information, as well as waste analyses, the director requires to
determine if the waste will have an adverse effect on the POTW.
      7.   Solid, viscous or liquid substances in quantities or of such size as
to cause or be capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to: ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails, paper products such as dishes, cups, milk
containers, towels, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders, slops,
chemical residues, or bulk solids.
      8.   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      9.   Any substance that may pass through the treatment plant without
being effectively treated or otherwise reduced to acceptable concentrations by
normal treatment methods such that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge
to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any waters or wastes containing substances in excess of the limits
established in section
9-8B-9 of this article.
      11.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage shredder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
(3/4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review and
approval of the director. All shredded garbage shall be flushed into the sewer
system with enough water to prevent the clogging of the sewer system.
      12.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits to be established by the director on a case
by case basis in compliance with and after consultation with the appropriate
regulatory agencies.
      13.   Any water or wastes containing excessive discoloration or causing
excess discoloration of the effluent, including, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions.
      14.   Any indirect discharge that does not comply with a permit issued by
the director.
      15.   Any indirect discharge that does not comply with the national
pretreatment standards.
      16.   Any indirect discharge not authorized by a permit issued by the
director.
      17.   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference.
      18.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW.
      19.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, inflow, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the director.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: In addition, the following pollutants shall not
be introduced into a POTW:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
method specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      2.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 11.0; provided,
that the pH at the POTW treatment plant remains between 6.5 and 9.0. Should the
pH at the POTW treatment plant at any time be below 6.5 or above 9.0, then
pollutants shall not be introduced to the POTW with a pH lower than 6.5 or
higher than 9.0.
      3.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW or pass- through.
      4.   Any waters or wastes with total dissolved solids concentrations
greater than three thousand milligrams per liter (3,000 mg/l) plus the
dissolved solids in the city water supply.
      5.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than 2.5 inches in any dimension.
      6.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F), or exceeds one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F) at the point
of discharge. Should the temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceed forty
degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F) at any time, then pollutants shall not be
introduced to the POTW with a temperature that exceeds forty degrees Celsius
(40°C) (104°F).
      7.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      8.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      9.   Except where expressly authorized to do so by an applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement, no industrial user shall ever increase
the use of process water, or in any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as
a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with a pretreatment standard or requirement. The director may impose mass
limitations on industrial users which are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases where the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
      10.   Hazardous wastes as defined by 40 CFR part 261. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-
2014)
9-8B-9: LIMITATIONS ON INDIRECT DISCHARGES:
If authorized by a permit or order issued by the director, the indirect
discharge may:
   A.   Contain less than or equal to the following total concentration of
pollutants (includes both dissolved and suspended portions):
Pollutant Monthly Average mg/l Daily Maximum mg/l
Pollutant                            Monthly Average mg/l Daily Maximum mg/l
Animal or vegetable source fats, oil 169                  338
and grease
Arsenic                              0.16                 0.34
Cadmium                              0.10                 0.16
Chromium                             13.92                22.55
Copper                               3.45                 5.62
Cyanide                              2.49                 4.58
Lead                                 1.06                 1.69
Mercury                              0.055                0.11
Molybdenum                           0.10                 0.16
Nickel                               2.30                 3.91
Oil and grease                       120                  240
Selenium                             0.42                 0.72
Silver                               11.44                20.59
Zinc                                 8.01                 14.43
 
The limits specified above apply at the point of discharge to the POTW.
National pretreatment standards apply at the end of the process generating the
waste. The director may impose mass limitations in addition to the
concentration based limitations above.
   B.   Contain less than twenty five milligrams per liter (25 mg/l) of
settleable solids in a thirty (30) minute settleability test as per "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water Or Wastewater", latest edition.
   C.   Contain solids that are small enough to pass a screen with three-
eighths inch (3/8") openings.
   D.   Contain up to the concentrations or characteristics derived by the
director for interim limits. Interim limits may only be applied in a permit or
order for pollutants appearing in 40 CFR part 122, appendix D, tables II, III,
IV, and V and molybdenum. The interim limits must not result in interference or
pass- through. These interim limits shall remain in effect until the process
established in 40 CFR part 403.18 has been completed.
   E.   Contain trace amounts of other pollutants; provided, that procedures
specified in the permit or order using best professional judgment to control
the discharge of those pollutants has been complied with. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-
2014)
9-8B-10: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and from the director's inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the director, that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-11: PERMIT FOR DISCHARGE:
   A.   Industrial Pretreatment Permit Requirement:
      1.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an industrial pretreatment permit from the
director, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely
application pursuant to subsection B of this section may continue to discharge
for the time period specified therein.
      2.   The director may require other users to obtain industrial
pretreatment permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
      3.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an industrial
pretreatment permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects
the industrial pretreatment permittee to the sanctions set out in sections
9-8B-5,
9-8B-36 and
9-8B-37 of this article. Obtaining an industrial pretreatment permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
   B.   Existing Connections: Any user required to obtain an industrial
pretreatment permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future shall, within thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the
director for an industrial pretreatment permit in accordance with subsection F
of this section, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this
article, except in accordance with an industrial pretreatment permit issued by
the director.
   C.   New Connections: Any user required to obtain an industrial pretreatment
permit who proposes to begin or commences discharging into the POTW must obtain
such permit prior to the beginning or commencing of such discharge. An
application for this industrial pretreatment permit, in accordance with
subsection F of this section, must be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to
the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   D.   Permit For Discharge: A permit for discharge shall be issued:
      1.   After a formal application is submitted on a form issued by the
director.
      2.   After pretreatment facilities, flow regulating devices, inspection
chamber or plumbing fixtures complying with the international plumbing code to
assure compliance with the requirements of this article have been installed. A
compliance schedule, if necessary, will be developed by the director. The
compliance schedule shall be a specific timetable detailing each step necessary
to achieve compliance with this article and shall include, as a minimum:
         a.   Hiring an engineer.
         b.   Submission of engineering report to director.
         c.   Submission of plans and specifications to director.
         d.   Submission of executed purchase orders, construction contract, or
lease/purchase agreement to director.
         e.   Construction completion and startup deadline.
         f.   Achieving compliance and submission of operational report to
director.
         g.   Submission of ninety (90) day progress reports detailing work
completed toward compliance.
      3.   After the director or his representative has performed an inspection
of the facilities.
   E.   Duration Of Permit: The permit may be issued for any period not to
exceed five (5) years.
   F.   Contents Of Application: The application for a permit to discharge
shall contain the following:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number and location of the owner and
operator of the facility.
      2.   SIC number according to the "Standard Industrial Classification
Manual", bureau of the budget, latest edition.
      3.   A description of services offered and/or products manufactured or
assembled by the facility.
      4.   An estimate of the number and breakdown of employees, information on
shifts, and if subject to production based on limits in 40 CFR parts 404
through 471, estimated production rates.
      5.   A description of the process generating wastewater including the
basis material and any additives to the water or the basis material.
      6.   An evaluation of the conventional and toxic pollutants (appendix B,
40 CFR part 403) that may be present in the indirect discharge.
      7.   Estimate rates of discharge.
      8.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, appurtenances, and pretreatment
facilities.
      9.   Any other information deemed necessary by the director to evaluate
the application for a permit to discharge.
   G.   Conditions Or Modifications For Permit Issuance: Permits issued under
this article are used subject to conditions listed thereon and all other
applicable local, state and federal statutes, rules and regulations. The
permits are subject to revocation for noncompliance. The city shall have the
right to reissue a permit after the user demonstrates compliance. The permit
conditions are subject to modification as it becomes necessary to protect the
sanitary sewer system or its proper functioning, or if such modifications
become necessary as a result of requirements imposed by the state or federal
government.
   H.   Determination By Director; Appeal: After reviewing the application, the
director may determine that a permit is not required, or the director may issue
a permit to the industrial user. The industrial user shall have fifteen (15)
days to appeal to the city manager any provision of the permit. (Ord. 6197, 12-
8-2014)
9-8B-12: CONDITIONS FOR PERMITS:
All permits to discharge issued by the director shall contain the following
conditions:
   A.   Reporting Requirements:
      1.   Baseline Monitoring Reports:
         a.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective
date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative
decision on a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is
later, existing categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the director a report which contains the
information listed in subsection A1b of this section. At least ninety (90) days
prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of all applicable categorical
standards, shall submit to the director a report which contains the information
listed in subsection A1b of this section. A new source shall report the method
of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A
new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
         b.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth
below:
            (1)   Identifying Information: The name and address of the
facility, including the name of the operator and owner.
            (2)   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
            (3)   Description Of Operations: A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
            (4)   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average
daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated
process streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
waste stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
            (5)   Measurement Of Pollutants:
               (A)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
               (B)   The results of sampling and analyses identifying the
nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in 40
CFR 136.
               (C)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures
set out in subsections 9-8B-30A and B of this article.
            (6)   Certification: A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
            (7)   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M
will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by
which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in subsection A2 of
this section.
            (8)   Signature And Certification: All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with subsection C of this section.
      2.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection A1b(7) of this section:
         a.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation);
         b.   The user shall submit a progress report to the director by each
date in the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum,
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any
delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule; and
         c.   In no event shall more than six (6) months elapse between such
progress reports to the director.
      3.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard
Deadline: Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the director a report containing the information described in subsection 9-8B-
11F of this article. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with subsection C of this section.
      4.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
         a.   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the director but in no case less than twice per year, submit a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period. All periodic compliance reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with subsection C of this section.
         b.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
         c.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the director, using the
procedures complying with 40 CFR part 136, the results of this monitoring shall
be included in the report.
      5.   Report Of Changed Conditions: Each user must notify the director of
any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30)
days before the change.
         a.   The director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of an industrial pretreatment permit application under section
9-8B-11 of this article.
         b.   The director may issue an industrial pretreatment permit pursuant
to this article or modify an existing industrial pretreatment permit in
response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
         c.   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include,
but are not limited to, increases of flow or pollutant twenty percent (20%) or
greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      6.   Reports Of Potential Problems:
         a.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the director of
the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
         b.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the occurrences.
Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW,
natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability which
may be imposed pursuant to this article.
         c.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection A6a of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
         d.   Significant industrial users are required to notify the director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for slug
discharge.
      7.   Reports From Unpermitted Users: All users not required to obtain an
industrial pretreatment permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
director as the director may require.
      8.   Notice Of Violation; Repeat Sampling And Reporting: If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the director
within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the director within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of
the violation.
   B.   Prohibition Of Bypass: Bypass is prohibited subject to conditions of
subsection 9-8B-38C of this article.
   C.   Certification Statement: All industrial pretreatment permit
applications and user reports must be reviewed and signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   D.   Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans: At least once every two (2)
years, the director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user
needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan. The director may require any
user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively,
the director may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the director of any accidental
or slug discharge, as required by subsection A6 of this section; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   E.   Other Provisions: Other provisions required by 40 CFR part 403 are
necessary to secure the policy and objectives of this article.
   F.   Compliance With CFR: Any sampling or analysis performed to meet
reporting requirements must comply with 40 CFR part 136. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-13: INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PERMIT CONTENTS:
An industrial pretreatment permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the director to prevent pass-through or interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment plant's effluent,
protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal,
and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Contents Of Permit: Industrial pretreatment permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates industrial pretreatment permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years.
      2.   A statement that the industrial pretreatment permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the director in accordance with
subsection C of this section, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing discharge permit.
      3.   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards.
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
      5.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
      6.   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Director to be necessary.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: Industrial pretreatment permits may contain, but
need not be limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works.
      3.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine discharges.
      4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharging to the POTW.
      5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW subject to change per
resolution.
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
      7.   A statement that compliance with the industrial pretreatment permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the industrial pretreatment permit.
      8.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this article, and the State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   C.   Permit Transfer: Industrial pretreatment permit may be reassigned or
transferred to a new owner only if the user gives at least sixty (60) days'
advance notice to the Director and the Director approves the permit transfer.
The notice to the Director shall include a written certification by the new
owner which:
      1.   States that the new owner has no immediate intent to change the
facility's operations and processes; and
      2.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      3.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the wastewater
discharge permit. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-14: CHARGES AND FEES:
It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the city’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein, the applicable fees for which are established
hereafter.
   A.   Adoption Of Charges And Fees:
      1.   The City may adopt charges and fees which may include:
         a.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
City’s pretreatment program.
         b.   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures.
         c.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction.
         d.   Fees for permit applications.
         e.   Fees for filing appeals.
         f.   Fees for laboratory analysis of individual business’ wastewater
to determine pretreatment program compliance.
         g.   Fees for replacement or repair of City equipment vandalized while
on user’s site.
         h.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      2.   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this article and
are separate from all other fees charged by the city.
   B.   Permit Required; Renewal:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation may discharge any industrial waste
into the sanitary sewer system which leads to the City’s Wastewater Treatment
Plant without having first obtained a permit therefore. Application for permit
shall be made on a form approved by the department director.
      2.   In the event a discharge permit is canceled for any cause under the
provisions hereof, a fee based upon the current fee schedule shall be charged
for a subsequent permit issued to such person, firm or corporation. At the time
of each permit renewal, certain previously approved pollutant and/or
concentrations may be denied or conditioned when such contributions exceed
standards or will be likely to cause a violation of the POTW’s OPDES permit.
   C.   Charges Established:
      1.   Annual Permit Fees: The rates established in this subsection C1
shall be effective from the first billing cycle in July 2025.
         a.   Significant industrial users with average water usage:*
 
< 1,000 gallons per day $ 865.32
1,000 gallons per day   $ 3,749.75
 
         b.   Minor users (non-significant industrial users)   $ 865.32
         Note:
         *   Average water usage shall be based on the most recent 12
consecutive months’ water usage at the time of initial permit or at the time of
permit renewal, as applicable.
      2.   Laboratory Analysis Fee: Users shall be charged actual cost plus a
ten percent (10%) administrative fee for laboratory analysis of individual
business’ wastewater to determine pretreatment program compliance.
      3.   Equipment Replacement Or Repair Fee: A ten percent (10%)
administrative fee for replacement or repair of city equipment vandalized while
on user’s site.
      4.   Other Fees: Such other fees and costs which are necessitated by
user’s program of discharge and which are in excess of the normal and customary
charges incurred by the city. (Ord. 6238, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord. 6292, 5-24-2021;
Ord. 6325, 5-22-2023; Ord. 6344, 5-28-2024; Ord. 6354, 5-27-2025)
9-8B-15: USER CHARGES; PRETREATMENT; SAMPLING; DISCHARGE PERMITS:
For the purpose of providing funds for the operation and maintenance of the
sanitary sewerage system and for other purposes as allowed by applicable law,
there is hereby fixed and established a system of user charges to be levied
against each respective user thereof. The base level charges are based on the
costs of operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewerage system including
replacement as well as the volume, strength and delivery flow rate of the
sewage. The city shall review the user charges annually and revise them as
necessary to reflect actual sanitary sewage operation and maintenance costs.
The base level charge is comprised of a charge to service each account plus a
charge for Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and/or Total Suspended Solids (TSS)
above domestic sewer strength.
   A.   Volume Determination: The monthly volume of sewage discharged by each
user shall be assumed to be equal to the quantity of water metered to the user;
but, in the cases where the volume cannot be reasonably determined from the
water so metered, the amount of sewage discharged into the city system shall be
determined as provided in this article. The average monthly water usage for the
months of December, January, and February shall be used to determine a monthly
rate per customer.
   B.   BOD, TSS above Domestic Sewer Strength; Formula:
      1.   The quantity of BOD and/or TSS above normal strength shall be
determined in accordance with the following formula:
         P =   (C-300) x MG x 8.34
         Where:
         P   =   Pounds of (BOD)(TSS) to be charged for
         C   =   Concentration of (BOD)(TSS) in mg/l in the discharge
         300   =   Normal strength of (BOD)(TSS) in mg/l
         MG   =   Million gallons (to the nearest 1,000 gallons) discharged
during the month
      2.   If C is less than three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l),
there will be no “above domestic sewer strength” charge, nor will there be any
reduction in the base level charge when C is equal to or less than three
hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
   C.   Sewage Analyzed: The sewage shall be analyzed as discussed in the
industrial pretreatment subsection of this article, except the sewage from
individual residences and establishments known to discharge only domestic
wastewater is assumed to be of domestic sewer strength and will not ordinarily
be analyzed. The analysis will be carried out in a manner that has the approval
of the director
   D.   Monthly Charges: The monthly charges hereinafter established shall be
computed from the average monthly metered potable water consumption for the
same location during the months of December, January, and February. In the
event that change of service takes place prior to or during the averaging
period, the Utility Billing Manager shall establish estimated water consumption
based upon a comparison of users of a similar class.
      1.   In addition to all other fees imposed upon users of the sanitary
sewer system, the monthly user charges are established as follows:
         a.   Base user charge to service each account, per month    $17.20
         b.   Where head of household is 65 years or older   $16.34
         c.   In addition to the base user charges, there is hereby imposed the
following monthly volumetric fees:
            $3.03 per unit (1 unit = 100 cubic feet or 748 gallons)
         d.   For industrial discharges, the following additional monthly fees
shall be imposed by means of BOD and /or TSS if the concentration exceeds three
hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l):
            Industrial Wastewater Charge for BOD ($/pound)   0.45    
            Industrial Wastewater Charge for TSS ($/pound)   0.45    
      2.   For those multiple apartments, dwellings and establishments which
are served by the City Waste Disposal Plant and also served with water through
a single water meter, the monthly charge to service each account will apply to
each occupancy site. Variations for lack of occupancy of site(s) may be made at
the billing office by the manager/owner of such multiple metered sites. Where
possible, the city shall determine occupancy by the existence of an active
electrical account. Persons responsible for the payment of the water accounts
may accept responsibility for monthly sewer service charges upon the approval
of the billing office.
   E.   Users Described; Charges:
      1.   Residential Users: The maximum amount to be charged for new service
and transfer service is $47.58 until the next averaging rate is established.
      2.   Nonresidential/Rural Users: The amount to be charged for new service
and transfer service shall be based on the monthly water consumption until the
next averaging rate is established. All nonresidential/rural users of the
City’s sanitary sewerage system shall be charged one and one-half (1.5) times
the scheduled rates.
   F.   Meter Required:
      1.   Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, each person, firm,
corporation, association, institution or establishment from whose property or
premises sewage is discharged into the sanitary sewage system of the City, but
who is not a water customer of the City, is hereby required to meter, at its
source, the quantity of water used with an appropriate meter to be approved by
the City and to pay a monthly user charge based upon the quantity of water thus
metered and the strength of sewage discharged, to be computed in like manner as
provided in the preceding subsections of this section.
      2.   Each user of the sanitary sewerage system of the City who is a water
customer of the City, but who also obtains, uses or consumes water from any
source other than from the City, is hereby required to meter, at such source,
the quantity used with an appropriate meter to be approved by the City and to
pay a monthly user charge based upon the total quantity of water metered and
the strength of the sewerage discharged, to be computed in like manner as
provided in the preceding subsections of this section. (Ord. 6019, 5-24-2010;
amd. Ord. 6237, 5-22-2017; Ord. 6293, 5-24-2021; Ord. 6326, 5-22-2023; Ord.
6345, 5-28-2024; Ord. 6355, 5-27-2025)
9-8B-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-17: USER CHARGE SCHEDULE:
As the BOD, suspended solids, and other pollutant concentrations discharged
shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be charged on
a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
Cu = C b + Ct /Vt (Vu )
(Based on model no. 1, 40 CFR 35, appendix B.)
Symbols and definitions:
 Cu  = A user's charge per month.
 Cb  = A user's base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
        administration, etc.) per unit of time, $14.70 per month.
 Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per month.
 Vt = Total volume contributions from all users per month (includes
        extraneous flows).
 Vu = Volume contribution for a user per month in 100 cubic feet.
 
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-18: EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES:
For any user, when the BOD exceeds three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/
l), the suspended solids exceed three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l),
oil and grease exceeds one hundred twenty milligrams per liter (120 mg/l) or
when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range of concentrations of these
pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall be added to the basic
charge. This surcharge shall be calculated by the following formula:
C s = (Bc(B) + Sc (S) + Fc (F) + Pc (P)) Vu x 0.00624
(Based on model no. 2, 40 CFR 35, appendix B.)
Symbols and definitions:
 Cs  = A surcharge for wastewater of excessive strength in dollars per month.
 Bc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for treatment of a pound of
        biochemical oxygen demand (BOD).
 B   = Concentration of BOD from a user above 300 mg/l.
 Sc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for treatment of a unit of
        suspended solids (SS).
 S   = Concentration of suspended solids (SS) from a user above 300 mg/l.
 Fc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for treatment of a pound of oil
        and grease.
 F   = Concentration of oil and grease above 120 mg/l.
 Pc = Operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for treatment of a unit of any
        pollutant.
 P   = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level.
 Vu = Volume contribution from a user per month per 100 feet.
 
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-19: TOXIC POLLUTANT CHARGES:
Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
costs of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay
for such increased costs. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-20: NOTIFICATION OF CHARGES:
Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the regular
bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-21: CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS:
The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly attributable
to users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among users on the
same basis as operation and maintenance charges. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-22: BILLINGS; DELINQUENCIES:
Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due ten (10) days after
the date of billing. Users with delinquent accounts of thirty (30) days will be
notified in writing by the director that water and/or wastewater services will
be terminated unless the account is paid in full. The director will utilize the
law enforcement agency to assist as required in the control and management of
the user charge systems. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-23: TERMINATE SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO PAY BILLS; VIOLATIONS:
The city reserves the right to terminate service to any customer that fails to
pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the sewer system.
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-24: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTION:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations: The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the international
plumbing code and the applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   B.   Design And Construction: All new sanitary sewerage works shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma
department of environmental quality regulations.
   C.   Connection Required Condition: When a public sewer becomes available
(within 500 feet), the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within
sixty (60) days. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-25: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Required; Exception: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
constructed and properly operated and maintained for existing users when, in
the opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters of dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity conforming to the international plumbing code and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   B.   Specifications: Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and
watertight.
   C.   Maintenance: Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-26: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city, Oklahoma department of
environmental quality and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-27: CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
All connections of any industrial wastewater sewer shall be made at a manhole
on the public sewer. No connections shall be made direct to the pipe of any
outfall interceptor, relief or main collector sewer as specified in the city
plumbing code. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-28: RECORDS:
A recordkeeping system shall be established and maintained by the Ponca City
environmental services department to document compliance with federal
regulations pertaining to the user charge system. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-29: ACCESS FOR SAMPLING:
The director shall be granted access at all times for purposes of observing and
sampling an indirect discharge. The director may require that the industrial
user construct or install a structure(s) to provide access to sampling the
indirect discharge.
   A.   Monitoring Facilities:
      1.   The city may require to be provided and operated at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
      2.   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      3.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days
following written notification by the director.
   B.   Inspection And Sampling:
      1.   The director or his duly authorized agent bearing credentials and
identification; an authorized representative of the U.S. environmental
protection agency or Oklahoma department of environmental quality shall have
the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this article and any industrial pretreatment
permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the director ready access
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties. The
director shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. The director or his duly authorized agent will inspect and
monitor SIU at least once a year.
      2.   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the director will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      3.   The director may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated as directed by the director to ensure their accuracy.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the director and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the director access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this article.
      6.   If the director has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this article or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the director may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the state district court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Pretreatment:
      1.   Users shall provide and operate necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the director shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
director for review, and shall be acceptable to the director before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility, as necessary, to produce an effluent acceptable to the director under
the provisions of this article. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
      2.   The director shall annually publish in the Ponca City newspaper a
list of the users which were in significant noncompliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards at least once during the twelve (12) previous months.
The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same twelve (12) months.
   D.   Significant Noncompliance Defined: The term "significant noncompliance"
shall mean:
      1.   "Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits", defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1).
      2.   "Technical review criteria (TRC) violations", defined here as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or
exceeds the product of the numeric pretreatment standards or requirements
including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) multiplied by the
applicable TRC criteria (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2
for all other pollutants except pH).
      3.   Any other violations of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long term average, instantaneous
limit, or narrative standard) that the director determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public.
      4.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the director exercising
his emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an industrial pretreatment permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance.
      6.   Failure to provide, within forty five (45) days after the due date,
any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      8.   Any other violation(s) which the director determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program. (Ord.
6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-30: VOLUME AND SAMPLING OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
   A.   Report:
      1.   The BOD5 and TSS concentrations in the discharge of "minor users"
will normally be determined from standard values of various industries as
established by the director. However, the director will collect samples and may
monitor discharge rates on a random basis. The significant industrial users are
required to cause a sample to be collected and analyzed. The sampling method
shall be specified by the director. All self-monitoring data obtained and
supplied in compliance with this requirement must conform to 40 CFR 136
methods. The analysis shall be determined and certified by an independent
testing laboratory employed by the user and approved by the director. A report
shall be prepared and submitted to the director within thirty (30) days after
the sample is collected. The report shall be signed and shall contain a
statement assuring that the sample was collected and composited in such a
manner as to be representative of the maximum hourly discharge rate. It shall
also include the following:
         a.   Starting and ending time of the sampling period.
         b.   Hourly rate of flow observed during the sampling period.
         c.   Concentrations of BOD and TSS.
         d.   Total pounds of BOD and TSS discharged during the sampling
periods.
         e.   Concentrations of other pollutants listed on the user's current
industrial discharge permit.
      2.   All cost associated with collection, compositing, analyses and
reporting of these samples shall be borne by the user. The director can be
expected to collect grab samples one or more times per year from significant
industrial users. The city may or may not give prior notice of its intent to
collect a sample(s).
   B.   Sample Collection:
      1.   Except as indicated in subsection B2 of this section, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the director
may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four (4)
grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      2.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   C.   Recordkeeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
article shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this article and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city, or
where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by
the director. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-31: USE OF STORM SEWER, NATURAL OUTLET:
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by
the director. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon approval of the director, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-32: STORMWATER PROHIBITED FROM SANITARY SEWER:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer in the city. (Ord.
6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-33: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal wastewater works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
destruction or damage to public property. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-34: LIABILITY FOR LOSS, DAMAGE:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned to the city by reason of
such violation. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-35: RIGHT OF REVISION:
The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on indirect discharges if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives of section
9-8B-2 of this article. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-36: VALIDITY:
The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of
agreements or contracts between the city and any of the users which are
inconsistent with applicable federal regulations regarding user charge systems.
(Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-37: PENALTIES:
   A.   Petition For Injunctive Relief: When the director or city manager finds
that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
article, a permit issued by the director, or order issued under section
9-8B-5 of this article, or federal pretreatment standard or requirement; then
the director or city manager may petition the state district court of competent
jurisdiction through the city attorney for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the permit issued by the director, an order issued under section
9-8B-5 of this article, federal pretreatment standard or requirement, or other
requirement imposed by this article on activities of the user. The director or
city manager may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   B.   Violation Of Article: Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this article and the sections thereunder shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation per day, or the jurisdictional limits of the
municipal court and costs; provided, that each day of such violation shall
constitute a separate offense. In the case of a monthly or other long term
average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period
of the violation.
   C.   False Statements; Misrepresentation: Any person who shall make a false
statement or misrepresent the facts on any application, report, correspondence
or other information provided by the director shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation per day, or the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court and
costs.
   D.   Fees In Addition To Fines: In addition to the fines provided herein,
the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter's
fees, and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
   E.   Remedial Action: Filing a suit for penalties under this section shall
not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a
user including emergency suspension or termination of sewer and/or water
service. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
9-8B-38: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upset: An affirmative defense to violations of this article is an upset
as described below:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless
or improper operation.
      2.   An "upset" shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection A3 of this section are met.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the director
or his duly authorized representative within twenty four (24) hours of becoming
aware of the upset, if this information is provided orally; a written
submission must be provided within five (5) days.
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      5.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      6.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   B.   Reason Favoring Defense: A user shall have an affirmative defense to an
enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the general
prohibitions in subsections 9-8B-8A6, A8 and A17 of this article if it can
prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone
or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass- through
or interference, and that either:
      1.   A limit exists for each pollutant discharged in subsection 9-8B-9A
of this article, and the user was in compliance with each limit directly prior
to, and during, the pass-through or interference; or
      2.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its OPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass: Under the stipulations below, an affirmative defense in the
event of bypass is:
      1.   For the purposes of this section:
         a.   "Bypass" means the intentional diversion of waste streams from
any portion of a user's treatment facility.
         b.   "Severe property damage" means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. "Severe property
damage" does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      2.   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are
subject to the provisions of subsections C3, C4, C5 and C6 of this section.
      3.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the director or his duly authorized representative, at least
ten (10) days before the date of the bypass.
      4.   A user shall submit oral notice to the director or his duly
authorized representative of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable
pretreatment standards within twenty four (24) hours from the time it becomes
aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five
(5) days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
      5.   Bypass is prohibited, and the director and his duly authorized
representative may take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass,
unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required under subsections C3 and
C4 of this section.
      6.   The director or his duly authorized representative may approve an
anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the director or
his duly authorized representative determines that it will meet the conditions
listed in subsection C5 of this section. (Ord. 6197, 12-8-2014)
ARTICLE C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
9-8C-1: Statement And Purpose
9-8C-2: Definitions
9-8C-3: Duties Of The Director
9-8C-4: Stormwater Drainage Fund
9-8C-5: Master Drainage Plan
9-8C-6: Stormwater Utility Service Charge
9-8C-7: Collection Of Utility Service Charge
9-8C-8: Stormwater Utility Service Charge Rates
9-8C-9: Land Disturbing Activity Regulated
9-8C-10: Land Disturbance Permit, Application
9-8C-11: Construction Activity Best Management Practices
9-8C-12: Postconstruction Best Management Practices
9-8C-13: Illicit Discharges And Connections
9-8C-14: Spills And Accidental Discharges
9-8C-15: Good Housekeeping
9-8C-16: Compliance Monitoring Requirements
9-8C-17: Watercourse Protection
9-8C-18: Allowable Stormwater Discharges To The Drainageway
9-8C-19: Prohibited Stormwater Discharges
9-8C-20: Recordkeeping By The Responsible Party
9-8C-21: Access For Inspection And Sampling
9-8C-22: Recovery Of Costs
9-8C-23: Penalties
9-8C-1: STATEMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this article to promote public health, safety and
welfare by providing for operating, constructing, equipping, maintaining,
acquiring and owning within the city a stormwater drainage system. The
establishment of a stormwater drainage system will:
      1.   Minimize flood and storm losses and inconveniences from uncontrolled
stormwater runoff in the city;
      2.   Assure that the movement of emergency vehicles is not prohibited nor
inhibited during storm or flood periods;
      3.   Preserve the city's watercourses, improve and preserve purity of
water, minimize water quality degradation, and otherwise facilitate urban water
resource management techniques, including both the reduction of pollution and
the enhancement of the urban environment;
      4.   Establish an overall plan and master plan for stormwater and flood
management and its implementation, including, without limitation, a coordinated
program of creating upstream ponding or temporary detention of stormwaters;
      5.   Establish a stormwater and flood management utility to coordinate,
design, construct, manage, operate, and maintain the stormwater and flood
management system;
      6.   Establish reasonable stormwater utility and flood management fees
based on the use of stormwater drainage system and flood drainage facilities.
(Ord. 5985, 6-30-2003)
9-8C-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided in this article, for the purposes of this
article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given herein:
    ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE: A discharge prohibited by this article into the
waters of the state or U.S. which occurs by chance and without planning or
consideration prior to occurrence.
   AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The areas identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study For Kay County, Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas" dated
September 25, 2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The
flood hazard area shall be established by the city utilizing the base flood
elevation established from one of the following:
      1.   "The Flood Insurance Study For The City Of Ponca City", initially
adopted July 2, 1980, and revised on November 18, 1988, as amended or revised
with the accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and flood boundary and
floodway map (FBFM) and related supporting data and any revisions thereto
(effective until September 25, 2009, when superseded by subsection 2 of this
definition);
      2.   "The Flood Insurance Study For The City Of Ponca City", dated
September 25, 2009, as amended or revised with the accompanying flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) and related supporting data and any revisions thereto;
      3.   "Bois d' Arc Tributaries Stormwater Master Plan" dated July 2009
prepared by Meshek & Associates, Inc., and related supporting data (for areas
beyond the limits of detailed study in subsection 2 of this definition);
      4.   "Arkansas River Tributaries Stormwater Master Plan" dated July 2009
prepared by Meshek & Associates, Inc., and related supporting data (for areas
beyond the limit of detailed study in subsection 2 of this definition); and
      5.   If available, a report submitted by the applicant at their expense
prepared by a licensed professional engineer using acceptable engineering
hydrology and hydraulic methods to establish a base flood elevation and
subsequent flood hazard area.
The flood hazard area shall include the area above the base flood elevation to
the elevation of the design flood elevation.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the state or U.S. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control facility site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CFR: An acronym for "code of federal regulations".
   CWA OR THE ACT: Clean water act (formerly referred to as the federal water
pollution control act or federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972) P.L. 92-500, as amended Pub. L. 95-576, Pub. L. 96-483 and Pub. L. 97-
117, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   CITY: The city of Ponca City, Oklahoma, a municipal corporation, and its
duly authorized officers, agents, and employees.
   COMMON BILLED: A billing for electric, water and/or sanitary sewer service
for a tract that is billed to the tract as one bill and not directly to the
individual units of that tract.
   CONTROL MEASURE: Any best management practice or other method used to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to the waters of the state or
U.S.
   CORPS' DREDGE AND FILL PERMIT (404): A permit issued by the secretary of the
army under the authority of section 404 of the CWA. Said permit does not
include any permit which has not yet been the subject of final agency action,
such as a "draft permit" or a "proposed permit".
   DETENTION OR RETENTION FACILITIES: Facilities designed to hold stormwater
for a short period and then to release it to a watercourse or to hold
stormwater for a sufficient length of time for it to be consumed by
evaporation, infiltration into the soil or other natural means.
   DEVELOPED REAL ESTATE: Real property altered from its natural state by the
addition to or construction of an impervious surface such that the hydrology of
the property is affected.
   DEVELOPER: The person(s) who improves, subdivides land or alters real
property from its natural state by the addition to, or construction of, an
impervious surface such that the hydrology of the property is affected.
   DIRECTOR: The duly appointed director of the public works department of the
city of Ponca City and/or his designated representative.
   DISCHARGE: The discharge of a pollutant. Discharge includes the placement
into, failure to remove pollutants from, or failure to secure pollutants in a
manner to prevent it entering drainageways.
   DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANT: Any addition of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the waters of the U.S. from any point source, or any addition of
any pollutant or combination of pollutants to the waters of the contiguous zone
or the ocean from any point source other than a vessel or other floating craft
which is being used as a means of transportation.
This definition includes the addition of pollutants into waters of the U.S.
from: surface runoff which is collected or channeled by man; discharges through
pipes, sewers, or other conveyances owned by a state, municipality, or other
person which do not lead to a treatment works. The discharge of pollutants to
the drainageway does include exposure of pollutants to contact to rainfall or
snow (thereby allowing runoff), contact with stormwater runoff or snowmelt
waters, or failure to secure stockpiles or storage areas that could allow the
transport of pollutants from secured areas to areas where contact could occur
with runoff.
   DRAINAGE BASIN PLAN: The Ponca City stormwater master plan adopted by the
board of commissioners of the city of Ponca City.
   DRAINAGEWAY: A route or watercourse along which water moves or may move to
drain an area.
   EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT (ESU): Shall be established at one unit per eight
thousand (8,000) square feet of impervious surface or a portion thereof.
   EROSION: Wearing away of lands by running water and waves, abrasion, and
transportation.
   FLOATABLE: Any buoyant or semibuoyant, organic or inorganic, waterborne
waste material such as litter, paper, styrofoam, grass, leaf litter, cigarette
butts and other debris.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: For the purposes of this article, a hazardous
substance shall be as defined in 40 CFR part 116.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any humanmade conveyance connecting an illicit discharge
to the drainage system of the city of Ponca City.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to a municipal separate storm sewer that is
not composed entirely of stormwater except discharges pursuant to an OPDES
permit (other than the OPDES permit for discharges from the municipal separate
storm sewer) and discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any surfaced area which prevents or retards the entry of
water into the soil, causing water to run off the surface in greater quantities
or at an increased rate of flow than was present under natural conditions.
Examples of an impervious surface include, but are not limited to, rooftops,
asphalt or concrete sidewalks, paving, driveways and parking lots, walkways,
patio areas, storage areas, and gravel, oiled macadam or other surfaces which
similarly affect the natural infiltration or runoff patterns of real property
from its natural state.
   INDIVIDUAL BILLED: Where billing for water and/or sanitary sewer services
for a tract is by separate billing to the individual units of that tract.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Any activity which is directly related to
manufacturing, processing or raw materials storage areas at an industrial
facility. The term includes, but is not limited to, industrial plant yards;
immediate access roads and rail lines used or traveled by carriers of raw
materials, manufactured products, waste material, or byproducts used or created
by the industrial facility; sites where material handling activities are
performed; refuse sites; sites used for the application or disposal of process
wastewaters; sites used for the storage and maintenance of material handling
equipment; sites used for residual treatment, storage or disposal; shipping and
receiving areas; manufacturing buildings; storage areas, including tank farms,
for raw materials, and intermediate and finished products.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any land change which may result in soil erosion
from water and wind and the movement of sediment or pollutants into waters of
the state or U.S., into stormwater, or onto drainageways of the city,
including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, grading, dredging,
stockpiling in a manner subject to receiving precipitation or coming into
contact with runoff, excavating, transporting, mining, and filling of land.
   MEP: An acronym for "maximum extent practicable", the technology based
discharge standard for MS4s established by CWA section 402(p).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM OR MS4: The system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) owned or regulated by the
city and designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, and which is
not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   OPDES PERMIT: An acronym for the "Oklahoma pollutant discharge elimination
system". An OPDES permit is a permit to discharge issued by the Oklahoma
department of environmental quality for a point source, biosolids (sewage
sludge), and stormwater permitting standards for discharges to the waters of
the state of Oklahoma from those facilities within the jurisdiction of the
Oklahoma department of environmental quality as specified in 27A Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-3-101. Said permit does not include any permit which has not
yet been the subject of final agency action, such as a "draft permit" or a
"proposed permit".
   OKLAHOMA WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are developed by the Oklahoma water
resources board and are title 785 Oklahoma water resources board, chapter 45
Oklahoma water quality standards.
   OUTFALL (POINT SOURCE): Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including, but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel, or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged.
   POLLUTANT: Any dredge spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, oil, grease,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical waste, chemical waste,
industrial waste, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agriculture waste, industrial
waste, municipal waste and the characteristics of the wastewater including, but
not limited to, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, and
odor.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY: A spill or discharge to the drainageway of a hazardous
substance or substances subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 117.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Any property designed and used principally for
residential single-family, duplex or multi-family purposes and developed
according to and meeting the bulk and area requirements for residential single-
family, duplex or apartments zoned property as set forth in the city of Ponca
City zoning code at the time of development of such property.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: The party or parties that meet one or more of the
following descriptions:
      1.   The property owner;
      2.   The renter, lessee, or tenant exercising control over the site;
      3.   The developer;
      4.   A party or parties who have operational control over construction
plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those
plans and specifications; or
      5.   A party or parties that have day to day operational control of those
activities at a project that are necessary to ensure compliance with this
article (e.g., they are authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out
activities required by this article).
   SWP3: An acronym for a stormwater pollution prevention plan which is to be
developed and implemented by an OPDES permit to discharge stormwater. The
purpose of the SWP3 is to protect the quality of stormwater discharged from a
site.
   SCOUR: The erosive action of running water in streams or channels in
excavating and carrying away material from the bed and banks.
   SEDIMENT: Material of soil and rock origin transported, carried, or
deposited by water.
   SPILL PREVENTION CONTROL AND COUNTERMEASURE PLAN OR SPCC PLAN: An acronym
for a spill prevention control and countermeasure plan which is required by EPA
or state requirements for certain transportation and storage activities for
petroleum or some other hazardous materials.
   SPILLS: Any release that has negatively or has the potential to negatively
impact the quality of water within, or discharges from the city's municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) or causes damaging or deleterious effects to
the city's MS4, including all structures or appurtenances, or creates any
violation of this article.
   STORMWATER: Defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(13) and means stormwater runoff,
snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Any facility, structure, improvement,
development, equipment, property or interest therein, or other structural or
nonstructural element made, constructed, used or acquired for the purpose of
collecting, containing, storing, conveying and controlling stormwater wherever
located including, but not limited to, storm sewers, conduits, sidewalks,
paving, drainage inlets, alleys, drainage easements, natural and manmade
channels, pipes, culverts and detention ponds whether public or private.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: The overall strategy and framework for the
stormwater management activities of the city.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
stormwater drainage system.
   STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE: The fee levied within the boundaries of
the city for the use of the city's stormwater drainage facilities.
   SUBDIVISION: Land that is separated into tracts, parcels or lots.
   TOTAL MAXIMUM DAILY LOAD ALLOCATION OR TMDL: A document established and
adopted through the rule making procedures of the Oklahoma department of
environmental quality pursuant to section 303(d) of the CWA.
   TRACT: A lot, or parcel of land. Properties that are not abutting or
adjoining or are separated by any street, alley or other property shall be
considered separate tracts.
   UNDEVELOPED REAL ESTATE (UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY): Real estate unaltered by the
construction or addition of any impervious surface which would change the
hydrology of the property from its natural state.
   USER: The owner, renter or lessee of a tract of land that drains stormwater
to the stormwater drainage system. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-3: DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR:
   A.   The director shall exercise all lawful powers necessary and appropriate
to administer the city of Ponca City's stormwater management program. The
director shall have the authority to:
      1.   Develop and administer all phases of a comprehensive program of
stormwater management including planning, mapping, designing, establishing,
acquiring, constructing, developing, installing, administering, maintaining,
operating, improving, repairing, replacing and reconstructing the stormwater
drainage system of the city;
      2.   Administer the recordkeeping and support personnel necessary for the
efficient operation of the stormwater management program;
      3.   Administer the regulations contained in this article;
      4.   Perform studies and analyses required to establish or modify the
stormwater management program;
      5.   Provide for public information and awareness that will improve
management and reduce hazards to life and property;
      6.   Coordinate enforcement of regulations contained in this article with
other city departments; and
      7.   Seek the cooperation of counties and municipalities within the area
in minimizing the contribution of all storm drainage systems to flooding and,
in particular, cooperate with other affected political jurisdictions in
preparing and implementing master drainage plans. (Ord. 5985, 6-30-2003)
9-8C-4: STORMWATER DRAINAGE FUND:
   A.   A separate fund shall be maintained for the purpose of identifying and
controlling all revenues to stormwater drainage services. The costs of
administering, data collection, planning, maintaining, operating, and improving
drainage services and facilities shall be made from these revenues. (Ord. 5985,
6-30-2003)
9-8C-5: MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN:
   A.   The documents together titled the "Ponca City Stormwater Master Plan
2009", and any amendments thereto, are adopted as the city's master drainage
plan and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein. A full and complete
copy of the plan shall be maintained in the community development department or
any successor department charged with implementing and enforcing the terms of
the plan. Said plan shall be available for inspection by requesting parties.
   B.   The "Ponca City Stormwater Master Plan 2009" shall serve and otherwise
be referenced as the master drainage plan for the city. The plan is based on
engineering studies that indicate the location of all drainage facilities in
the city, including those facilities that currently exist and those determined
to be needed and that are intended to be constructed in the future. The plan
also includes floodplain mapping. (Ord. 6106, 9-28-2009)
9-8C-6: STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE:
There is hereby established a stormwater utility service charge for the City's
stormwater drainage system at rates hereinafter established; provided, however,
that the service charge shall not be imposed on the following types of
property:
   A.   City streets, rights-of-way, parks and City owned property;
   B.   State of Oklahoma highway rights-of-way;
   C.   Railroad rights-of-way;
   D.   Undeveloped land. (Ord. 5985, 6-30-2003)
9-8C-7: COLLECTION OF UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   The stormwater utility service charges herein established for the use
of the City's stormwater drainage system shall be billed to each user monthly,
along with a bill for electric, water or other utility services and such
penalties as are now or may hereafter be established for other utility service
bills. In the event any person's, firm's or corporation's utility account
becomes delinquent or he/she/it/they shall tender as payment for water service,
sewer service, collection of solid waste service and/or stormwater utility
service charge for the use of the City's systems an amount insufficient to pay
in full all the charges so billed, the payment shall be credited to the account
or accounts in accordance with accounting procedures used by the Customer
Service Department for utility bill payments. The City shall have the right and
privilege of discontinuing any and all utility service to any premises for
insufficient payment. Said services or any of them shall remain terminated
until all delinquent charges for utilities shall have been paid in full.
The provisions for collection provided herein shall be in addition to any
rights or remedies which the City may have under the laws of the State of
Oklahoma.
   B.   The invalidity of any provision, clause or portion of this section or
the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of this section or the validity of its
application to other persons or circumstances. (Ord. 5985, 6-30-2003)
9-8C-8: STORMWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGE RATES:
   A.   The rates and charges for the stormwater management utility shall be as
follows:
      1.   Rate for each active residential account $4.75 per month.
      2.   Rate for each active commercial account $7.75 per month.
   B.   These rates shall be evaluated annually. (Ord. 5985, 6-30-2003; amd.
Ord. 6255, 5-14-2018; Ord. 6290, 5-24-2021; Ord. 6306, 5-23-2022; Ord. 6322, 5-
22-2023; Ord. 6346, 5-28-2024; Ord. 6358, 5-27-2025)
9-8C-9: LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY REGULATED:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to conduct or to
allow another to conduct any land disturbing activity without a permit issued
under this article. The term "land disturbing activity" shall not include:
      1.   Minor land disturbing activities such as home or community gardens,
individual landscaping on an individual lot or tract, repairs, maintenance
work, or other minor erosion control, provided that no more than one-half (1/2)
acre is disturbed;
      2.   Construction or repair of structures not requiring a building
permit, if less than one-half (1/2) acre will be disturbed;
      3.   Construction of individual utility service connections where less
than one-half (1/2) acre is disturbed;
      4.   Agricultural practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or
harvesting of products of the field or orchard, preparing and planting
pastureland, forestry land management practices, including harvesting, dairy
operations, livestock and poultry management practices, and the construction of
farm buildings which do not require a building permit;
      5.   Any project carried out under the direct supervision of the:
         a.   Natural resources conservation service of the U.S. department of
agriculture;
         b.   U.S. army corps of engineers of the U.S. army;
         c.   Oklahoma department of transportation;
      6.   Work undertaken by the bureau of Indian affairs of the U.S.
department of the interior;
      7.   Maintenance, repair, and operation of at grade or below grade
facilities that will not involve disturbance of more than one- half (1/2) acre
of land;
      8.   Construction activities regulated under an OPDES permit regulating
the discharge of stormwater from a construction site; and
      9.   Activities regulated under a 404 permit. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-10: LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT, APPLICATION:
   A.   The terms and conditions required of a land disturbance permit shall
include an application prepared by the applicant and any other conditions
deemed necessary to implement the provisions contained in this article. If the
land disturbance activity proposed is in conjunction with a building
construction or demolition permit, then a separate land disturbance permit and
application shall not be required. The application for a land disturbance
permit shall include as a minimum the following items:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the applicant;
      2.   Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address for the preparer
of the stormwater pollution prevention plan or erosion/sediment control plan,
if different from the applicant;
      3.   Name, address, and telephone number and e-mail address for the
individual responsible for implementing and maintaining the erosion/sediment
control or stormwater pollution prevention control best management practices,
if different from the applicant;
      4.   Legal description and address of the site;
      5.   Estimated disturbed area;
      6.   A sketch identifying the location and extent of best management
practices to be employed on the site;
      7.   Details describing the best management practices;
      8.   A schedule indicating the estimated time of final completion
including final cover to prevent erosion from the developed site;
      9.   Signature of the applicant. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-11: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
All construction activity, regardless of size or scale, shall be conducted
within the city in accordance with the provisions below.
   A.   Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities
shall be conducted so as to minimize erosion. Clearing and grubbing must be
held to the minimum necessary for grading and equipment operation.
Preconstruction vegetative ground cover shall not be destroyed, removed or
disturbed more than twenty (20) calendar days prior to grading or earthmoving.
Construction must be sequenced to minimize the exposure time of cleared surface
area.
   B.   Property owners and/or developers shall be responsible, upon completion
of land disturbing activities, for leaving slopes so that they will not erode.
Such methods should include revegetation, sodding, mulching, or riprapping.
Regardless of the method used, the objective will be to leave the site erosion
free and maintenance free as practicable.
   C.   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation, including mature trees, shall be
retained, protected, and supplemented.
   D.   Permanent soil stabilization with perennial vegetation shall be applied
as soon as practicable after final grading is reached on any portion of the
site. Soil stabilization refers to measures which protect soil from the erosive
forces of wind, raindrop impact, and flowing water, and includes the growing of
grass, sod, application of straw, mulch, fabric mats, and the early application
of gravel base on areas to be paved.
   E.   A permanent vegetative cover shall be established on disturbed areas
not otherwise permanently stabilized.
   F.   To the extent necessary, sediment in runoff water must be trapped by
the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, silt fences, check dams
or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized.
   G.   Neighboring persons and property shall be protected from damage or loss
resulting from excessive stormwater runoff, soil erosion or deposition upon
property or public streets of water transported silt and debris.
   H.   Controlled construction entrance/exits shall be maintained in a
condition that will prevent tracking or flowing of sediment onto the public
right of way.
   I.   Erosion and sediment control measures must be in place and functional
before earthmoving operations begin, and must be constructed and maintained
throughout the construction period. Temporary measures may be removed at the
beginning of the workday, but must be replaced at the end of the workday.
   J.   Structural controls shall be designed and maintained as required to
prevent pollution. All surface water flowing toward the construction area
shall, to the extent practicable, be diverted by using berms, channels, or
sediment traps as necessary. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be
designed according to the size and slope of disturbed/drainage areas, to detain
runoff and trap sediment. Discharges from sediment basins and traps shall be
through a pipe or lined channel so that the discharge does not cause erosion.
Where considered practical by the city, discharges to the drainageway shall be
aligned to be as close as possible to the direction of flow in the drainageway.
Muddy water to be pumped from excavation and work areas shall be held in
settling basins or treated by filtration prior to its discharge into surface
waters where practicable. Waters shall be discharged through a pipe or lined
channel so that the discharge does not cause erosion and sedimentation. All
channels, outlets, storm sewer inlets, streets, creeks, and streams shall be
protected from the introduction of garbage, rubbish, yard waste, sediment, or
floatable materials.
   K.   All control measures shall be inspected, and repaired as necessary,
biweekly in dry periods and within twenty four (24) hours after any rainfall of
0.5 inches or more. During prolonged rainfall, daily inspections and repairing
shall be necessary. The permittee shall maintain record of such inspections and
repairs of:
      1.   Any land disturbing activity located in the watershed of any creek
or stream that is listed as impaired by the ODEQ shall be inspected, and
repaired as necessary, on a weekly basis in dry periods and within twenty four
(24) hours after any rainfall of 0.5 inches or more within a twenty four (24)
hour period. During prolonged rainfall, daily inspections and repairing shall
be necessary. The permittee shall maintain record of such inspections and
repairs.
   L.   A specific individual shall be designated to be responsible for erosion
and sediment controls on each site. A notice shall be posted on each site with
the OKR10 permit number (if applicable), contact name and telephone number,
project name and location of the SWP3 if not on site.
   M.   There shall be no distinctly visible floating scum, oil or other matter
contained in the stormwater discharge. The stormwater discharge shall not cause
an objectionable color contrast in the receiving water. The stormwater
discharge shall result in no materials in concentrations sufficient to be
hazardous or otherwise detrimental to humans, livestock, wildlife, plant life,
or fish and aquatic life in the receiving stream.
   N.   Concrete washout areas must be designated, utilized, and maintained to
minimize pollutant discharge.
   O.   When the land disturbing activity is finished and stable and perennial
vegetation has been established on all remaining exposed soil, the permittee
shall notify the city in writing of these facts and submit a notice of
termination (NOT) of the permit issued under this section. The city shall then
conduct a final inspection of the site and, when advisable, may require
additional measures to stabilize the soil and prevent erosion. If such
requirements are given by letter, the permittee shall continue to be covered by
this provision of this section, until a request for termination of the permit
has been accepted by the director.
   P.   No person shall place, spill or allow the flow of concrete or similar
construction materials on any public road, alley, highway or sidewalk, except
as may be required for the construction or the maintenance of the public road,
street, highway or sidewalk.
   Q.   Construction or demolition debris shall not be allowed to blow off the
site of origin.
   R.   Trash containers of sufficient size shall be located on each
construction site no later than the time the rough plumbing is ready for
inspection. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-12: POSTCONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
This section shall apply to properties for which an OPDES permit for stormwater
discharge from a construction site, or land disturbance permit has been issued.
Postconstruction best management practices are considered adequate when the
following conditions are met:
   A.   Compliance has been achieved of the final erosion control measures
described in the OPDES permit and a notice of termination has been submitted to
the Oklahoma department of environmental quality; and/or
   B.   Compliance has been achieved of the final erosion control measures
described in the land disturbance permit issued by the city of Ponca City; and
   C.   Permanent best management practices identified on development plans and
building plans approved by the city for subdividing, development, or building
construction have been inspected and approved by the city; and
   D.   The site has been finally stabilized (i.e., a uniform perennial
vegetative cover with a density of at least 70 percent of the native background
cover has been established for all unpaved areas and areas not covered by
permanent structures or where equivalent permanent stabilization measures such
as riprap or gabions have been used), and all stormwater discharges from
construction activities that are authorized by an OPDES permit or land
disturbance permit are eliminated and a notice of termination has been
submitted. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-13: ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The city shall take appropriate steps to detect and eliminate illicit
connections to the city stormwater system (MS4), including the adoption of a
program to screen illicit discharges and identify their source or sources.
   B.   The city shall take appropriate steps to detect and eliminate improper
discharges, including programs to screen for improper disposal and programs to
provide for public education, public information and other appropriate
activities to facilitate the proper management and disposal of used oil, toxic
materials, and hazardous household waste.
   C.   No person shall conduct, allow or permit the discharge of stormwater in
any manner in violation of this article or of any condition of a permit issued
pursuant to this article or a stormwater discharge permit issued by the state.
Such discharge is a violation of this article and shall be immediately
corrected or abated by any owner and by any operator.
   D.   No person shall conduct, allow or permit the direct or indirect
discharge of any material other than stormwater into the MS4, or waters of the
state or U.S. The following direct or indirect discharges are examples of
prohibited discharges:
      1.   Sewage dumping or dumping of sewage sludge;
      2.   Chlorinated swimming pool discharge;
      3.   Backwash wastewater from swimming pool filters;
      4.   Discharge of any polluted household wastewater, such as, but not
limited to, laundry wash water and dishwater, except to a sanitary sewer or
septic system;
      5.   Leaking sanitary sewers and connections;
      6.   Leaking water lines;
      7.   Commercial, industrial or nonexempt public vehicle wash or power
wash discharge, commercial, industrial or nonexempt cosmetic cleaning;
      8.   Garbage, rubbish, or sanitary waste disposal;
      9.   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
      10.   Nonstormwater discharges, except pursuant to a permit issued by the
state or city, or otherwise allowed by this article;
      11.   Dredged or spoil material;
      12.   Solid waste and commercial or industrial process byproducts;
      13.   Chemical waste;
      14.   Wrecked or discarded vehicles, appliances or equipment;
      15.   Motor vehicle or stationary motor fluids; and
      16.   Construction and/or demolition debris. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-14: SPILLS AND ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Spills that have the potential to enter or have entered the city's MS4
shall be contained, and remediation activity shall be commenced, as soon as
possible. In case of vehicle accident, all spillage shall be properly contained
and cleaned and stored with accident vehicle. Any person identified as the
source of any spill into the city's MS4 shall be required to remediate, remove
and properly dispose of spilled materials. Remediation activities shall only be
considered complete when the cleanup is deemed satisfactory by the appropriate
city, state, or federal agency overseeing the spill. The required reporting or
notification for such spills shall be completed as specified under state and
federal law with copies provided to the city.
   B.   In the event a discharge occurs of any discharge or a hazardous
substance in amounts which could cause a threat to public drinking supplies, a
"significant spill", or any other discharge which could constitute a threat to
human health or the environment, the owner or operator of the facility shall
give notice to the director and the field office of the Oklahoma department of
environmental quality as soon as practicable, but in no event later than the
close of business on the day following the accidental discharge or the
discharger becomes aware of the circumstances. If an emergency response by
governmental agencies is needed, the owner or operator shall also call 911
immediately to report the discharge. A written report shall be provided within
five (5) days of the time the discharger becomes aware of the circumstances,
unless this requirement is waived by the director for good cause shown on a
case by case basis, containing the following particulars:
      1.   A reasonably precise description of the discharge;
      2.   The exact date and time of discharge; and
      3.   Steps being taken to eliminate and prevent recurrence of the
discharge.
   C.   The owner and operator shall take all reasonable steps to minimize any
adverse impact to the waters of the state or U.S., including such accelerated
or additional monitoring as necessary to determine the nature and impact of the
discharge. It shall not be a defense for the discharger in an enforcement
action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the business or
activity of the facility in order to maintain water quality and minimize any
adverse impact that the discharge may cause. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-15: GOOD HOUSEKEEPING:
   A.   With respect to the city's compliance with environmental laws, the
director and/or the director's authorized representatives may do the following:
      1.   Carry out all inspections, surveillance, enforcement, and monitoring
procedures necessary to determine compliance; administer the city's compliance
with its OPDES MS4 permit to discharge from the municipal separate storm sewer
system;
      2.   Inspect city properties for the presence of hazardous substances,
and develop and administer whatever remediation programs are required;
      3.   Audit city departments to determine whether the city is in
compliance with federal and state clean water act laws; whether the city has
obtained all permits required by federal and state environmental laws; and
whether the city is in compliance with the permits it has;
      4.   Audit use of herbicides, fertilizers, and pesticides at city
facilities to determine compliance with clean water act laws and to recommend
alternative solutions where practicable for the reduction of their use through
education and outreach programs;
      5.   Control the discharge of spills and the dumping or disposal of
materials other than stormwater (e.g., commercial waste, trash, motor vehicle
fluids, leaf litter, grass clippings, animal waste, etc.) into the MS4;
      6.   Monitor the city's compliance with all federal, state, and local
laws; including:
         a.   Administering the city's compliance with state and federal laws
relating to discharge from the wastewater treatment plant, landfill, Ponca City
energy, airport and city garage;
         b.   Monitor and coordinate with other city departments on the city's
response to releases of hazardous substances;
         c.   Monitor the use of city rights of way, property, and easements by
persons with use agreements for environmental monitoring;
         d.   Establish and supervise a program for the collection of hazardous
household waste;
         e.   Create, promote, and publicize educational programs for
environmental awareness; and
         f.   Provide quantitative data through field screening programs. (Ord.
6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-16: COMPLIANCE MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Stormwater Sampling Event Criteria: When the director requires that a
sample of a storm event be obtained, the following criteria must be met:
      1.   The depth of the rainfall must be greater than one-tenth inch (0.1")
or its equivalent;
      2.   The sample storm event must be preceded by at least seventy two (72)
hours of less than one-tenth inch (0.1") of rainfall; and
      3.   All point sources from the premises or industry required to sample
must be sampled, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Sampling: When the director has reason to believe that any person or
industrial facility is violating this article, the person or industrial
facility may be required to obtain either a grab or composite sample and
analyze any discharge, stormwater, groundwater and/or sediment and provide a
copy of the analysis to the director for review.
   C.   Illicit Discharge Sampling: When the director has cause to believe that
any discharge is an illicit discharge, the director may obtain either a grab or
composite sample and analyze the discharge. If the director determines that the
discharge is an illicit discharge, then the director may fully recover all cost
of the sampling and analysis from the person or industrial facility. When the
discharge is likely to contain illicit discharges on a recurring basis, the
person or industrial facility may be required by the director to conduct
monitoring activities at its expense.
   D.   Chain Of Custody: Upon completion of sample collections and
documentation, a written record of the chain of custody must be completed. The
chain of custody record is an accurate step by step documentation of the
sampling path from origin through analysis. It must contain the following
information:
      1.   Name of the person(s) collecting the sample;
      2.   Sample ID numbers;
      3.   Date and time of sample collection;
      4.   Location of sample collection;
      5.   Name(s) and signature(s) of all persons handling the sample in the
field and in the laboratory;
      6.   Type of sampling equipment used;
      7.   Type of preservation; and
      8.   Certification of sample authenticity.
A copy of the chain of custody will remain with all sample analyses sent to the
city of Ponca City for review.
   E.   Substitution Of Substantially Identical Effluents: When a person or
industry is required to sample a storm event and that person or industry has
two (2) or more point sources with substantially identical effluents, the
person or industry may petition the director to allow the sampling of only one
point source and report that the data applies to the substantially identical
point source(s).
   F.   Monitoring Methods: Monitoring must be conducted according to test
procedures approved under 40 CFR part 136, unless other test procedures have
been specified by the director. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-17: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-18: ALLOWABLE STORMWATER DISCHARGES TO THE DRAINAGEWAY:
   A.   The discharges authorized below are to the drainageway only and not
authorized to discharge to the sanitary sewage collection system or to waters
of the state. It is allowable to discharge the following to the drainageways of
the city:
      1.   Raw drinking water supply and potable water from water line
flushing.
      2.   Diverted stream flows.
      3.   Rising groundwaters.
      4.   Residential building wash water without detergents.
      5.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater (contaminated groundwater pumped
from a brownfield's site within the city is not an allowable discharge).
      6.   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration.
      7.   Discharges from potable water sources.
      8.   Foundation drains.
      9.   Air conditioning condensate.
      10.   Irrigation water.
      11.   Springs.
      12.   Water from crawl space pumps.
      13.   Footing drains.
      14.   Lawn watering.
      15.   Individual residential car washing.
      16.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges.
      17.   Street and parking lot wash water, provided that no pollutants or
floatables are discharged into the city's storm sewer.
      18.   Fire hydrant flushings and water from flow testing fire hydrants
(excluding chlorinated water main disinfection waters).
      19.   Noncommercial or charity car washes.
      20.   Discharges from riparian areas or wetlands.
      21.   Discharges in compliance with an OPDES permit, which has been
issued and is in effect.
      22.   Dredging and filling operations in compliance with a 404 permit,
which has been issued and is in effect.
      23.   Discharges in compliance with the requirements of a land
disturbance permit.
      24.   Application of agricultural chemicals in a manner consistent with
labeling of the chemical product and at an amount not greater than ten percent
(10%) above agronomic rates.
      25.   Discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities provided
procedures are in place for the incident commander, fire chief, or other on
scene firefighting official in charge to make an evaluation regarding potential
releases from the scene. Measures must be taken to reduce any such pollutant
releases to the maximum extent practicable subject to all appropriate actions
necessary to ensure public health and safety.
      26.   Discharges from property with adequate postconstruction best
management practices in place and properly operated for which an OPDES
stormwater discharge permit was issued during construction, or which a land
disturbance permit was issued. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-19: PROHIBITED STORMWATER DISCHARGES:
   A.   It shall be violation of this article to discharge or allow the
discharge of any of the following into the city's MS4:
      1.   All nonstormwater and stormwater to the MS4 that is not allowable as
determined by this article;
      2.   Stormwater from any activity required to obtain an "OPDES stormwater
discharge permit" that has not been authorized a current effective OPDES permit
or not in compliance with the requirements of the permit;
      3.   Dredge and filling activities required to obtain a "404 permit" that
has not been authorized by a current effective 404 permit or not in compliance
with a 404 permit;
      4.   Any spilled pollutants, unless it can be demonstrated that failure
to allow the discharge will result in a greater imminent peril or hazard to the
life, health, welfare, or safety of the public;
      5.   Any material that is disposed of or dumped in such a manner that
causes pollutants to be discharged;
      6.   The discharge of sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into a
well or a location where it is likely that the discharged substance will move
into a well, or the underground placement of fluids and other substance which
do or may affect the waters of the state or U.S.;
      7.   Water main disinfection water that has not been dechlorinated.
   B.   To place, store or locate any material in such a manner that causes
pollutants to be transported by wind, rain or other atmospheric conditions into
the city's MS4.
   C.   Any point source discharge into the city's MS4 that either singly or in
conjunction with other discharges causes the city to violate its OPDES
municipal stormwater discharge permit shall be prohibited.
   D.   To dispose of grass, dirt, leaves, sticks, limbs, trash, construction
or demolition debris, or other pollutants into the city's MS4.
   E.   Allow an animal to defecate (without the owner, keeper or harborer
removing the excreta deposited) on public or private property other than that
of the owner.
   F.   To deposit, drain or divert, whether directly or through an agent, into
or upon any public highway, street, sidewalk, alley, parking lot, paving,
drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek, stream, river, lake, pond or
lagoon, any oil or oily liquid with petroleum content, grease, drilling mud,
rotary mud, sand, saltwater, sewer waste or industrial waste; or in any manner
permit by seepage, overflow or otherwise, any of such substances to escape from
any property owned, leased or controlled by such person nor shall any person
allow such substances to flow or be carried onto or upon any public highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, parking lot, paving, drainage ditch, storm drain,
sewer, gutter, creek, stream, river, lake, pond or lagoon within the city.
   G.   Concrete tailings.
   H.   Discharges required by the 2009 (or more recent code upon adoption)
international plumbing code are to be discharged to sanitary sewer instead of
the storm sewer.
   I.   Commencement of activities that result in or could result in a
discharge to the drainageway prior to establishing or implementing best
management practices. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-20: RECORDKEEPING BY THE RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Records Maintenance, Retention: Every responsible party shall retain
and make available to the director or his designee for inspection and copying,
all records and information required to be retained under this article, or
order issued hereunder. The responsible party shall retain these records for a
period of no less than five (5) years after an initial request by the director.
This retention period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning compliance with this article, or where the responsible
party has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
director.
   B.   Fraud And False Statements: Reports and other documents required to be
submitted or maintained under this article, or order issued hereunder, shall be
subject to the provisions of 18 USC section 1001, regarding fraud or false
statements and the provisions of section 309c(4) of the act, as amended,
governing false statements, representations, or certification.
   C.   Timely Manner: The requested documents shall be supplied to the city at
no charge and in a timely manner. In nonemergency situations, a reasonable
period of time for submitting said requested documents shall be not greater
than seven (7) consecutive calendar days. In emergency situations a reasonable
period shall be as soon as possible and not longer than twenty four (24) hours.
(Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-21: ACCESS FOR INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
   A.   Representatives of the city or their duly authorized agent bearing
credentials and identification shall have the right to enter the premises of
any discharger to the drainageway to determine whether the discharger is
complying with all requirements of this article.
Dischargers shall allow ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   B.   Property owners and tenants shall provide access to their property to
allow person(s) performing inspections of the drainageways of the city of Ponca
City and areas of special flood hazard, or performing water quality sampling
and on site testing to representatives after presentation of credentials that
they are an authorized representative of the city.
   C.   The individuals authorized above are not subject to penalty provisions
involving trespassing and persons denying reasonable access in a timely manner
are subject to the appropriate penalties indicated in section
9-8C-23, "Penalties", of this article. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-22: RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   A.   Testing required by the permittee under an OPDES permit or 404 permit
are borne entirely by the permittee and not the city of Ponca City. However,
there may be additional costs and expenses incurred by the city for the reasons
stated below that the responsible party shall reimburse the city for:
      1.   Sampling and testing performed by the city of a discharge or
potential discharge to have a greater level of assurance that the discharge is
compliant with this article;
      2.   Sampling and testing if there is a reasonable expectation that
noncompliance with this article may be occurring;
      3.   Sampling and testing if the stormwater pollution prevention measures
have not been installed as described in a plan or operated as described in a
plan or as any other prudent discharger using that best management practice
considers prudent;
      4.   Sampling and testing if a violation has occurred or could occur with
an OPDES permit issued to the city of Ponca City needing the identification of
the source of the discharge causing the noncompliance (occurring or possible);
      5.   Sampling and testing if there is a difference between the
description of the activity from the plans or permit application and the
activities on the site;
      6.   Sampling and testing if there is an unknown or nonreported substance
that could discharge to the drainageway;
      7.   Sampling and testing required by an OPDES permit issued to the city
of Ponca City.
   B.   In addition to testing costs, there are also noncompliance events with
this article such as spills and accidental discharges and other emergency
response actions needed to be taken urgently to promote and protect health,
safety, and the environment in which immediate mitigating actions must be taken
by the city that the responsible party shall reimburse the city for such costs,
including:
      1.   Efforts to contain the potential pollutant;
      2.   Efforts to render the potential pollutant less dangerous or
hazardous;
      3.   Efforts to isolate the public from the hazard area;
      4.   Removing the pollutant or hazard;
      5.   Storage of the contaminated substances;
      6.   Cleanup of the contaminated area;
      7.   Ultimate disposal of the pollutant or contaminated substances.
The emergency response efforts listed above are not a normal service provided
by the city and not services the city will provide except in emergency
conditions and in addition to any penalties that may be pursued as provided
below. (Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
9-8C-23: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties Specified: The penalties shown below may be pursued
individually or in combination with any other penalty specified below:
      1.   Violation Of This Article: Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished up to
and including the maximum statutory limit of the municipal court. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. In the case of a monthly or
other long term limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of
violation.
      2.   Petition For Injunctive Relief: When the city finds that the
provisions of this article have been violated then the city may petition the
state district court of competent jurisdiction through the city attorney for
the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance to achieve compliance with this
article. The city may also seek other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the responsible person to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the discharger.
      3.   False Statements Or Misrepresentation Of The Facts: Any person who
shall make a false statement or misrepresent the facts on any application,
report, correspondence, or other information provided to the city shall, upon
conviction, be punished up to and including the statutory limit of the
municipal court.
   B.   Fees In Addition To Fines: In addition to the fines provided herein,
the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, and court reporter
fees, other expenses associated with the enforcement activities, recovery of
costs under section
9-8C-22 of this article, and the cost of actual damages incurred by the city.
(Ord. 6159, 6-25-2012)
ARTICLE D. BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICES
SECTION:
9-8D-1: Undertaking And Scope
9-8D-2: Broadband Rates
9-8D-1: UNDERTAKING AND SCOPE:
The Ponca City Utility Authority shall undertake to provide broadband
connectivity to Ponca City and its environs. (Ord. 6027, 8-29-2005)
9-8D-2: BROADBAND RATES:
The following broadband internet service levels and rates are hereby
established:
   A.   Non-Commercial: The following rate schedule is applicable to any
customer requiring regular, ultra high speed access to the internet using
dynamic IP addresses, non-symmetrical bandwidth, where the service is used for
entertainment (or non-critical) purposes only, and/or where service outages
will be addressed during normal business hours. These rates are applicable
throughout the territory served by the Ponca City broadband:
      1.   Monthly Service Levels For Non-Commercial Customers Residing Inside
The City Limits: All non-commercial customers within the City limits shall pay
a set monthly fee for broadband internet service based upon service maximum
download bandwidths. This bandwidth is capped based on that service, except
during interruptions in service.
         a.   Gold Broadband: One hundred (100) Mbps download (fifty (50) Mbps
upload), sixty dollars ($60.00) per month.
         b.   Platinum Broadband: Three hundred (300) Mbps download (one
hundred fifty (150) Mbps upload), one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month.
         c.   Diamond Broadband: One thousand (1,000) Mbps download (five
hundred (500) Mbps upload), two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month.
      2.   Monthly Service Levels For Non-Commercial Customers Residing Outside
The City Limits: All non-commercial customers outside the city limits shall pay
a set monthly fee for broadband internet service based upon service maximum
download bandwidths. The bandwidth is capped based on that service, except
during interruptions in service.
         a.   Gold Broadband (Rural): One hundred (100) Mbps download (fifty
(50) Mbps upload), sixty-three dollars ($63.00) per month.
         b.   Platinum Broadband (Rural): Three hundred (300) Mbps download
(one hundred fifty (150) Mbps upload), one hundred five dollars ($105.00) per
month.
         c.   Diamond Broadband (Rural): One thousand (1000) Mbps download
(five hundred (500) Mbps upload), two hundred sixty-two dollars and fifty cents
($262.50) per month.
      3.   Activation Fees For Non-Commercial Customers: All non-commercial
customers shall pay anon-refundable two hundred dollars ($200.00) activation
fee at the time of signing up for service. This may either be paid in full or
over a period of twenty four (24) months for an additional forty dollar
($40.00) service fee. These periodic payments will be added to the non-
commercial customer's billing statements for a period of twenty four (24)
months at ten dollars ($10.00) per month. Activation fees must be paid in full
before an additional subsequent account can be activated by that individual.
      4.   Non-Commercial Classification: Non-commercial customers are those
customers who use their internet service for non-essential purposes,
entertainment in nature. Non-commercial internet access has no warranty, either
expressed or implied, as to fitness for any particular purpose and carries no
reimbursement for loss of use, including lost revenue. Non-commercial internet
access is restricted to the address of the customer obtaining service and
cannot be shared anywhere outside of that property. Customers requiring
essential services that allow them to conduct business (e.g. static IP
addresses, symmetrical upload/download speeds, multi-site access, and/or
immediate trouble resolution) must convert to commercial service where such
amenities are offered.
   B.   Commercial: The following rate schedule is applicable to any commercial
customer, including any building to which service is connected which is being
used primarily for business purposes. These rates are based upon pre-fiber
installation. Business rates are charged in "units of service". Commercial
Broadband service requires a two (2) year contract.
      1.   Rates For Each Unit Of Service: Each unit of service includes a
single public static IP address for business use, and includes speeds of one
hundred (100) Mbps guaranteed minimum symmetrical (upload and download)
bandwidth. This rate is two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month. Units of
service may be added, as needed, for an additional two hundred dollars
($200.00) per month.
      2.   Additional IP Addresses: Each additional public IP addresses is an
additional ten dollars ($10.00) per month, per IP address required to meet the
customer's need.
      3.   Amenities: Commercial service includes many amenities not included
in non-commercial service, which includes:
         a.   No activation fee;
         b.   Static IP address(es);
         c.   Ability to share the connection at multiple locations operated by
the business, as long the business installs their own local area network;
         d.   Service Level Agreement (SLA) that guarantees immediate repair
and/or replacement of any failed system components; and
         e.   Sharing of bandwidth between multiple devices within the
business.
(Ord. 6261, 10-22-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord 6274, 12-9-2019; Ord. 6280, 7-
13-2020; Ord. 6297, 6-14-2021; Ord. 6339, 4-8-2024)
CHAPTER 9
AIRPORT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Fuel Flowage Fee
9-9-1: FUEL FLOWAGE FEE:
   A.   Fee Imposed:
      1.   There is hereby imposed a fuel flowage fee, in such amount as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time, per
gallon on all aviation fuels dispensed on the Ponca City municipal airport.
      2.   Any individual or corporation dispensing aviation fuel on the Ponca
City municipal airport shall charge and collect such fee per gallon on all
aviation fuels dispensed in any aircraft or for use in any aircraft at said
Ponca City municipal airport and shall remit the same on or before the first
day of each month to the finance director. Said sum shall be due on the first
day of each month following the month in which the fuel was dispensed but shall
become delinquent on the fifteenth day of the following month in which the fuel
was dispensed.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, neglects, or
refuses to comply with the provisions of this section or refuses to comply with
the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Failure to pay each month as due shall
constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 4-1; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ADVERTISING; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Posting Generally
9-10-2: Destroying Lawful Posters
9-10-3: Marking On Streets, Sidewalks Prohibited
9-10-4: Sound Vehicles Restricted
9-10-5: Distribution Of Handbills
9-10-1: POSTING GENERALLY:
No person shall post any bills, signs, posters or advertisements on any
buildings, fences, poles or other property belonging to another without the
consent of the owner thereof. Such consent shall be secured in writing, and
such written consent shall be exhibited by the person having the same to any
police officer on demand. (1980 Code § 3-1)
9-10-2: DESTROYING LAWFUL POSTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear down,
deface or cover up any posted advertisement or bill of any person when the same
is lawfully posted and put up and during the time such sign or advertisement
shall be of value. (1980 Code § 3-4)
9-10-3: MARKING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, or attempt to advertise, by
marking or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks within the city. (1980
Code § 3-5)
9-10-4: SOUND VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind by the use of any amplifying equipment used by or
mounted on any vehicle without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
chief of police. (1980 Code § 3-6)
9-10-5: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample, or any device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise
reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature.
   NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statutes or regulations, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year, and sold to
the public, and shall mean and include any other copyrighted material.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (1980 Code § 3-18)
   B.   Exemption For Mail And Newspaper: The provisions of this section shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States postal service, nor
to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in
such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property. (1980
Code § 3-19; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw, deposit or
distribute any handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or upon such private premises. Provided, however,
that in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, such person,
unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so by sign or
otherwise, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such premises if
such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent the same from
being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used where so prohibited
by federal postal law or regulation. (1980 Code § 3-20; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Prohibited Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw, deposit or
distribute any handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone
thereon not to do so or if there is placed on such premises a sign bearing the
words: "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers or Agents", or any similar notice,
indicating in any manner that the occupants of such premises do not wish to
have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any handbills left upon such
premises. (1980 Code § 3-21)
   E.   Depositing On Uninhabited, Vacant Premises: It shall be unlawful for
any person to throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any private premises
which is uninhabited or vacant. (1980 Code § 3-22)
   F.   Placing On Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or
deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle. (1980 Code § 3-23)
   G.   Restricted In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person to
hand out or distribute or sell any handbill in any public place; except that a
handbill may be personally delivered to any person willing to accept the same.
(1980 Code §3-24)
CHAPTER 11
SMALL CELL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES AND ASSOCIATED SUPPORT STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Purpose
9-11-2: Definitions
9-11-3: Restrictions On Placement Of New Wireless Support Structures
9-11-4: Restrictions On The Placement Of Small Cell Facilities
9-11-5: Restrictions On Placement On Decorative Poles
9-11-6: Collocation
9-11-7: Specifications
9-11-8: Permits
9-11-9: Construction Requirements
9-11-10: Signal Interference With City's Communication Infrastructure
9-11-11: Interference With Operations And Liability
9-11-12: Continued Operation
9-11-13: Maintenance
9-11-14: Inventory
9-11-15: Installations On Traffic Signals, Street Signage, Other Traffic
Control Structures, And Lighting Structures
9-11-16: Reservation Of Rights
9-11-1: PURPOSE:
Wireless Service Facilities And Associated Wireless Support Structures: The
purpose of this section is to establish reasonable land use and development
standards allowing for the location of wireless service facilities within the
City of Ponca City, while minimizing the potential negative impacts of such
facilities on existing services or on the residents of the city. This section
applies only to wireless support facilities and associated wireless support
structures as defined and detailed herein. Conventional, taller, wireless
communications facilities are and remain regulated in Section
9-11-2 et seq. of the Ponca City Code. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases below are defined as
follows:
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device used in communications
that radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications
signals or other communication signals from a fixed location. "Antenna" does
not include an unintentional radiator or mobile station.
BASE STATION: A station located at a specific site that is authorized to
communicate with mobile stations. The term includes all radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other electronics associated with
a station as a part of a small cell communications network.
COLLOCATION: The placement or installation of small cell facilities on or
adjacent to existing electrical distribution poles (but not transmission
towers); existing utility poles; existing wireless support structures; and
other existing structures such as water towers and buildings. The term includes
the placement, replacement, or modification of small cell facilities within an
approved equipment compound.
CONSTRUCTION PLAN: When referring to a new wireless support structure, means a
written plan for construction that indicates the aesthetics of the wireless
support structure; the total height and width of the wireless service facility
and wireless support structure including cross section and elevation, footing,
foundation and wind resistance details; a structural analysis indicating the
capacity for future and existing antennas including a geotechnical report and
calculations for the foundation's capacity; the identity and qualifications of
each person or entity directly responsible for the construction; and signed and
sealed documentation from the applicant that shows the proposed location of the
wireless service facility and wireless support structure and all easements and
existing structures within one thousand (1,000) feet of such wireless service
facility or wireless support structure. "Construction plan" when referring to
the substantial modification of an existing wireless service facility or
wireless support structure means a plan that describes the proposed
modifications to the wireless support structure and all equipment and network
components including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and related equipment.
DECORATIVE POLE: A streetlight or traffic signal pole specially designed and
placed for aesthetic purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments,
other than a small wireless facility, specially designed informational signage,
directional signage, and temporary holiday or special event attachments, may be
placed.
ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER: A structure that physically supports high
voltage overhead power lines, typically carrying in excess of 12,500 kilovolts.
The term does not include a utility pole.
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION POLE: A structure that physically supports the final
distribution of electrical power, located in public utility easements or
streets, typically carrying 12,500 kilovolts or less, and located within
neighborhoods and individual developments.
EQUIPMENT COMPOUND: The area that:
      1.   Surrounds or is near the base of a wireless support structure; and
      2.   Encloses wireless service facilities.
EXISTING STRUCTURE: Does not include a utility pole or an electrical
transmission tower.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: A group of buildings, properties or sites that are zoned by
the authority as a historic district on or before March 31, 2018; included in
the State Register of Historic Places in accordance with title 53 Oklahoma
Statutes §355; or are either listed in the National Register of Historic Places
or formally determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National
Register, the individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal
agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the National
Register, in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that meets the following
qualifications:
      1.   Is not larger in dimension than twenty-four (24) inches in length,
fifteen (15) inches in width, and twelve (12) inches in height; and
      2.   Any exterior antenna is no longer than eleven (11) inches.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by an authority to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
PERMIT AUTHORITY: The City of Ponca City Development Services Director. This
permit authority extends in the capacity of a governmental regulator to all
locations within the city limits of Ponca City and extends in the capacity of a
property owner (through the Ponca City Utility Authority) to all locations
within electrical or other utility easements owned or controlled by Ponca City,
whether or not the easements are within the city limits.
PERSON: A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other legally recognized entity or group acting as a unit, as well as a natural
person.
SMALL CELL FACILITY:
      1.   A personal wireless service facility as defined by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7); or
      2.   A wireless service facility that satisfies the following
requirements:
         a.   Each antenna, excluding exposed elements, has a volume of three
(3) cubic feet or less;
         b.   All antennas, including exposed elements collectively, have a
total volume of six (6) cubic feet or less; and
         c.   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility has a
volume of twenty eight (28) cubit feet or less. Ancillary equipment such as:
electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation box,
ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off
switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services are not included in the equipment volume calculation. A small cell
facility shall be typically mounted on structures fifty (50) feet in height or
less from the mean ground elevation. This term does not include a wireless
support structure.
SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF A WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: The mounting of a
small cell facility on a wireless support structure in a manner that:
      1.   Increases the height of the wireless support structure by up to ten
percent (10%) of the original height of the wireless support structure; or
      2.   Adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that
protrudes horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the width
of the wireless support structure and existing appurtenances.
The term substantial modification does not mean:
      1.   Increasing the height of a wireless support structure to avoid
interfering with an existing antenna; or
      2.   Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure to:
         a.   Shelter an antenna from inclement weather; or
         b.   Connect an antenna to the wireless support structure by cable.
UTILITY POLE: A structure that is not a decorative pole as defined herein, but
which is:
      1.   Owned or operated by:
         a.   A public utility;
         b.   A communications service provider;
         c.   A municipality;
         d.   An electric membership corporation; or
         e.   A rural electric cooperative; and
      2.   Designed and used to:
         a.   Carry lines, cables, or wires for telephone, cable television, or
electricity; or
         b.   Provide lighting.
The term "Utility pole" does not include decorative poles.
WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
      1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
      2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration. The term includes small cell facilities. The term
does not include a wireless support structure.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure designed to support small
cell facilities. The term does not include a utility pole, a decorative pole or
an electrical transmission tower. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-3: RESTRICTIONS ON PLACEMENT OF NEW WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES:
   A.   Restrictions On Placement Within Right-Of-Way:
      1.   New wireless support structures may be allowed under permit in all
zoning districts within general utility easements and within the rights-of-way
for public streets and alleys, except within rights-of-way located in areas
identified as a Historic District in the Zoning Code.
      2.   New wireless support structures located within the right-of-way
shall be placed at the back of the right-of-way, adjacent to where adjoining
property lines intersect. The Development Services Director may approve a
deviation from this requirement due to specific site conditions.
      3.   New wireless support structures shall not obstruct, impede, or
hinder pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the public right-of-way or obstruct
or interfere with the legal use of a public right-of-way by other utility
providers.
      4.   Such facilities shall not be placed over buried utilities, unless
the Development Services Director has first certified that the proposed method
of construction and placement will not interfere with the maintenance and
repair of existing underground utilities.
   B.   New wireless support structures are not permitted outside the right-of-
way in the following zoning districts: AG (Agriculture) as to the residences
only, RA (Rural Acreage Dwelling District), RS (Single Family Dwelling
District), R2 (Two Family Dwelling District), R2M (Medium Density Dwelling
District), RMHP (Mobile Home Park Dwelling District), and RMHS (Mobile Home
Subdivision Dwelling District) and PUD (Planned Unit Development) districts.
For wireless support structures to be located within the right-of-way, such
structures are not subject to any zoning review.
   C.   New wireless support structures shall not interfere with safe sight
distances or otherwise block vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian traffic, or
conflict with the installation, maintenance, or repair on any public utility.
Safe sight distances shall include those areas associated with:
      1.   The intersections of two (2) or more streets;
      2.   The intersections of a street and an alley; and
      3.   The intersection of a street and a driveway.
   D.   New wireless support structures shall not block or encroach upon any
sidewalk or walkway. In no event may a new wireless support structure be
located in such a way as to interfere with the City's compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
   E.   Permit holders and/or facility owners shall promptly remove wireless
support structures that are installed in a location that is not in accordance
with the plans approved by the City, that do not comply with the provisions of
this chapter, or that otherwise render the public right-of-way non-compliant
with applicable Laws, including but not limited to the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
   F.   New wireless support structures shall be a minimum of five-hundred
(500) feet from any other wireless support structure located on the same side
of the street (or along the same side of the nearest street if located outside
of the right-of-way).
   G.   New wireless support structures shall be a minimum of fifty (50) feet
from the intersection of any two (2) street rights-of-way, measured from the
point at which the back of the right-of-way lines intersect. New wireless
support structures shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from the
intersection of any street right-of-way with an alley or driveway, measured
from the point at which the back of the right-of-way lines.
   H.   New wireless support structures shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet
from any utility pole.
   I.   The use of any portion of wireless service facilities and wireless
support structures for advertising or signage other than warning information or
equipment ownership information plaques is prohibited.
   J.   New wireless support structures shall not exceed ten (10) feet above
the tallest existing utility pole in place or fifty (50) feet above ground
level. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-4: RESTRICTIONS ON THE PLACEMENT OF SMALL CELL FACILITIES:
Small Cell Facilities shall not be placed on any building registered in either
the National Register of Historic Places or the Oklahoma Register of Historic
Places. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-5: RESTRICTIONS ON PLACEMENT ON DECORATIVE POLES:
Small cell facilities shall not be placed on decorative poles. (Ord. 6262, 2-
25-2019)
9-11-6: COLLOCATION:
Subject to applicable provisions of this section, small cell facilities may be
collocated on existing structures and existing utility poles. Small cell
facilities may be collocated on existing electrical transmission towers only on
the express written permission of both the Development Services Director, and
the Director of Energy. Further, the Director of Energy may condition such
permission on such safety, security and structural issues as may be reasonable
to each such electrical transmission tower. Under no circumstances may a small
cell facility be located at a height which would require an installation worker
or maintenance worker, or any tools, parts or equipment associated with such a
worker to be within twenty (20) feet of any electrical transmission line. (Ord.
6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-7: SPECIFICATIONS:
Wireless service facilities, including small cell facilities, and new wireless
support structures shall meet the following specifications:
   A.   Height: Small cell facilities and wireless support structures shall not
exceed fifty (50) feet in height. However, in no instance shall small cell
facilities and wireless support structures exceed ten (10) feet above the
tallest existing utility pole located along the same street (or closest street
if placed outside of the right-of-way) within five-hundred (500) feet.
   B.   Support structures shall be maintained in good working order at the
cost of the applicant, including the cost of electricity.
   C.   Facility Size: Each antenna, excluding exposed elements, shall not
exceed a volume of three (3) cubic feet. All antennas, including exposed
elements, shall not exceed a total volume of six (6) cubic feet. The primary
equipment enclosure located with the facility shall not exceed a volume of
seventeen (17) cubic feet or less. Alternatively, all facility equipment at a
single facility, with the exception of the antenna itself, may be ground
mounted in a cabinet having an area not to exceed forty (40) cubic feet and a
height not to exceed forty-eight (48) inches.
   D.   All support structures shall have a plaque clearly identifying the
structure and the facility owner's contact information and said plaque shall
not exceed 0.25 square feet.
   E.   All wiring and fiber shall be concealed within the support structure
and all conduit, wiring and fiber shall be buried between structures and/or
structures and ground mounted cabinets. All service lines (e.g. electric lines)
to the support structure must also be buried unless service lines in the area
of the support structure are aerial. In that event, service lines to the
support structure may also be aerial, except for any service drop crossing a
street or roadway which would need to be bored and placed under such street or
roadway.
   F.   Wireless support structures and wireless service facilities shall be
designed to blend into the surrounding environment and complement existing
streetscape elements through the use of color, camouflaging and architectural
treatment. Any equipment mounted to the support structures shall also match the
support structure in color and general design, typically with a matte finish.
Approval of the aesthetic design of the wireless support structures and
wireless service facilities shall be at the discretion of the Development
Services Director.
   G.   Any proposed wireless support structure shall be designed and
engineered structurally, electrically and in all other respects, to accommodate
both the initial small cell facility and one or more additional small cell
facilities. The support structure shall be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of cellular communication equipment and antennas upon the
structure and to accept cellular communication equipment and antennas mounted
at varying heights. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-8: PERMITS:
   A.   A person that provides wireless communications service or otherwise
makes available infrastructure for wireless communications services shall apply
for a permit from the Development Services Director to:
      1.   Locate a wireless service facility;
      2.   Locate a wireless support structure; or
      3.   Perform a substantial modification of a small cell wireless support
structure.
   B.   An applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed wireless service
facility, wireless support structure, or substantial modification thereof
complies with all applicable laws and ordinances governing land use and
development.
   C.   Within the right-of-way, a utility permit issued by the Ponca City
Development Services Director is required to:
      1.   Locate a wireless service facility and wireless support structure;
      2.   Perform a substantial modification; or
      3.   Collocate wireless service facilities on existing structures.
   D.   Permits For New Wireless Support Structures: A proposal for a new
wireless support structure shall include a map identifying all existing
wireless support structures, utility poles, electrical transmission towers, and
structures with a height of fifty (50) feet or greater within a one-half (1/2)
mile radius of the proposed new wireless support structure. The new wireless
support structure shall not be approved unless the person submits written
documentation and an affidavit affirming that the small cell facility planned
for the proposed wireless support structure cannot be accommodated on an
existing or approved utility pole or electrical transmission tower or other
existing structure with a height of fifty (50) feet or greater within a one-
half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed new wireless support structure due to
one (1) or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The proposed small cell facility would exceed the structural
capacity of existing or approved wireless support structures, utility poles,
electrical transmission towers, and/or structures with a height of fifty (50)
feet or greater as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
and that existing or approved wireless support structures, utility poles,
electrical transmission towers, and structures with a height of fifty (50) feet
or greater cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate the
planned telecommunication equipment at a reasonable cost;
      2.   The proposed small cell facility would cause interference impacting
the usability of other existing telecommunication equipment at the site if
placed on existing or approved wireless support structures, utility poles,
electrical transmission towers, and/or structures with a height of fifty (50)
feet or greater as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer, and that the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
      3.   Existing or approved wireless support structures, utility poles,
and/or electrical transmission towers within a one-half (1/2) mile radius
cannot accommodate the planned small cell facility at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer; or
      4.   The person has been unable to enter a commonly reasonable lease term
with the owners of existing or approved wireless support structures, utility
poles, electrical transmission towers, and structures with a height of fifty
(50) feet or greater.
   E.   Contents Of Application: An application for a permit shall include the
following:
      1.   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant;
      2.   The location address, and latitude and longitude of the proposed or
affected wireless support structure or wireless service facility;
      3.   A construction plan, as defined herein, that describes the proposed
wireless support structure and all equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and
related equipment sufficient to determine compliance with applicable standards;
and
      4.   Where the application is part of a system being proposed for the
year following the date the application is submitted to the city, the
application shall include a concept schematic of the proposed system locations,
even if the potential locations are not included in the application at issue.
   F.   Applications: An applicant may submit one (1) application for the
location or substantial modification of up to twenty-five (25) small cell
facilities and associated wireless support structures proposed for the same
general location. The Development Services Director may issue a single permit
for all such facilities and support structures included in the application
rather than individual permits for each. No applicant may have more than five
(5) applications under consideration by the permitting authority at any single
point in time.
   G.   Fees: Fees for the examination of each application shall be set by the
City Commission by resolution. In the interim, the application review fee is
set at two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first application which may
contain up to five (5) locations, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per each
additional small wireless facility on the same application thereafter.
   H.   Procedure:
      1.   Determination Of Completion/Defects: Within ten (10) calendar days
of receipt of an application, the Development Services Director shall review
the application to determine if the application is complete. If the Development
Services Director determines that an application is not complete, the
Development Services Director shall notify the applicant in writing of all
defects in the application. An applicant that is subject to a written notice of
incompletion may cure the defects and resubmit the corrected application within
thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the notice, paying no additional fee for
the examination. If an applicant is unable to cure the defects within the
thirty (30) day period, the applicant shall notify the Development Services
Director of the additional time the applicant requires to cure the defects.
      2.   Typically within sixty (60) calendar days of making an initial
determination of completeness, the Development Services Director shall review
the application to determine if it complies with applicable laws and ordinances
governing land use and zoning, and shall notify the applicant in writing
whether the application is approved or denied, and any such denial shall
include a written explanation of the deficiencies on which the denial is based.
If the applicant requested additional time to cure defects per 1. above, the
sixty (60) day period is extended for a corresponding amount of time. If the
application is not approved or denied within seventy-five (75) days, the permit
shall be deemed approved.
      3.   An applicant may cure the deficiencies in any application which is
denied, at no additional fee, if such cure is accomplished and the
documentation is resubmitted within thirty (30) days of the date of denial.
      4.   The applicant and the Development Services Director may toll the
running of these time limits by mutual, written agreement.
      5.   In the event that the applicant is applying to use an existing city
or trust pole, and it is discovered that the pole in question needs to be
replaced, the city or trust will replace the pole upon payment of the costs of
materials, labor and equipment, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Replacement to be accomplished within thirty (30) days of payment receipt,
emergency weather events excluded.
   I.   Written Determinations: A written determination shall state clearly the
basis for the decision to approve or deny an application. If the Development
Services Director denies an application, the written notice must include a
summary of substantial evidence in support of the denial and citation of the
code sections applicable.
   J.   Electricity: The fees and rental charges set forth above do not include
the recurring charges for electricity used by the various facilities and the
applicant or subsequent owner/operator of the small cell facility must pay
separately for such utility service.
   K.   Appeal: Any person whose application for a permit is denied shall have
the right to appeal to the District Court for Kay County in compliance with
title 12 O. S. § 951 upon the filing of a written notice of appeal filed with
the Development Services Director within thirty (30) days of the decision.
   L.   For any application which is approved, the city may charge an annual
rental for the space occupied within any street or public utility right-of-way,
or for the space occupied upon any structure or building owned by the city or
by any of the public trusts of which it is a beneficiary a rental charge in an
amount set by the City Commission by resolution; in the interim, the rent for
the land or building is three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) annually, payable
in advance.
   M.   For any application which is approved, the Ponca City Utility Authority
may charge an annual rental for the space occupied on the pole a rental charge
in an amount set by the City Commission by resolution; in the interim, the rent
for the pole twenty dollars ($20.00) annually, payable in advance. (Ord. 6262,
2-25-2019)
9-11-9: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All wireless service facilities, wireless support structures, small cell
facility, wireless service facility or primary equipment structure, and other
related improvements constructed within the city shall comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   Be designed and constructed to conform to all applicable provisions of
this chapter, other applicable ordinances and laws, the International Building
Code, the National Electrical Safety Code, the National Electrical Code, the
Life Safety Code, the National Electrical Safety Code as amended, and the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations, and ANSI/TIA-222, as
applicable.
   B.   Be certified by a qualified and licensed professional engineer to
conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading requirements of the
International Building Code, as amended, and the Electronics Industry
Association standards.
   C.   Be designed to conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and
practices and to comply with the provisions of the National Electrical Code, as
amended.
   D.   Be constructed to conform to the requirements of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Federal Communications
Commission.
   E.   Be designed and constructed to conform to all applicable standards of
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) manual, as amended. (Ord.
6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-10: SIGNAL INTERFERENCE WITH CITY'S COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE:
In the event wireless service facilities interfere with the city's traffic
signal system, public safety radio system, private police cell system, or other
city communications infrastructure, the permit holder or facility owner shall
promptly cease operation of the small cell facility causing such interference
upon receiving notice from the city and refrain from operating such small cell
facility in the future, until such interference can be eliminated. The permit
holder or facility owner shall respond to the city's notice to address the
source of the interference as soon as practicable, but in no event later than
twenty-four (24) hours of receiving notice. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
   A.   The city shall not be liable to a permit holder or facility owner for
any damage caused by other providers with facilities sharing the same pole or
for failure of a permit holder's or facility owner's wireless service
facilities for whatever reason, including damage resulting from vehicular
collisions, weather-related events, or malicious attacks.
   B.   The city shall not be liable to a permit holder or facility owner by
reason of inconvenience, annoyance, or injury to the permit holder's or
facility owner's wireless service facilities or activities related thereto,
arising from the necessity of repairing any portion of the public right-of-way,
or from the making of any necessary alterations or improvements in, or to, any
portion of the public right-of-way or in, or to, city's fixtures,
appurtenances, or equipment. The city will use reasonable efforts not to cause
material interference to the operation of the wireless service facilities.
(Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-12: CONTINUED OPERATION:
A person receiving a permit for: (1) construction of a new wireless support
structure; (2) substantial modification of a wireless support structure; or (3)
collocation of wireless service facilities inherently agrees:
   A.   If the wireless support structure or wireless service facilities are
not used for a period of six (6) consecutive months, they will be removed by
the permit holder or facility owner at its expense.
   B.   If the wireless support structure or wireless service facilities are
installed in a location that is not in accordance with the plans approved by
the city, do not comply with the provisions of this chapter, or render the
public right-of-way non-compliant with applicable laws, including but not
limited to the Americans with Disabilities Act, they will be removed by the
permit holder or facility owner at its expense. If a permit holder or facility
owner fails to remove any unauthorized wireless facility or any wireless
facility that is located in an improper location within thirty (30) days after
receiving written notice or the date required by the city, the permit holder or
facility owner shall be subject to a penalty of up to five-hundred dollars
($500.00) per day until the wireless facility is removed or relocated to the
correct area within the permitted location.
   C.   Should such permit holder or facility owner fail to remove the wireless
support structure or wireless service facilities after ninety (90) business
days from the date a Notice of Violation is issued by the city, the city may
remove such structure or facilities and bill the permit holder and/or facility
owner for the costs of removal and cleanup of the site. In the alternative, the
city may remove the equipment and related facilities and consider the support
structure to be abandoned in favor of the city. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-13: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Repair: Whenever the installation, placement, attachment, repair,
modification, removal, operation, use, or relocation of wireless service
facilities, or any portion thereof, is required and such installation,
placement, attachment, repair, modification, removal, operation, use, or
relocation causes any property of the city to be damaged or to have been
altered in such a manner as to make it unusable, unsafe, or in violation of any
laws, the permit holder or facility owner, at its sole cost and expense, shall
promptly repair and return such property to its original condition. If the
permit holder or facility owner does not repair such property or perform such
work as described in this section, then the city shall have the option to
perform or cause to be performed such reasonable and necessary work on behalf
of the permit holder or facility owner and to charge the permit holder or
facility owner for the reasonable and actual costs incurred by the city. The
permit holder or facility owner shall promptly reimburse the city for the
costs.
   B.   Graffiti Abatement: Each permit holder or facility owner shall remove
all graffiti on any of its wireless service facilities located in the public
right-of-way as soon as practical, but not later than ten (10) days from the
date the permit holder or facility owner receives notice thereof.
   C.   Tree Maintenance: Permit holders or facility owners and/or their
contractors or agents shall obtain written permission from the city before
trimming trees hanging over the permit holder's or facility owner's wireless
service facilities to prevent branches of such trees from contacting wireless
service facilities. When directed by the city, permit holders or facility
owners shall trim such trees under the supervision and direction of the city.
Permit holders and facility owners shall make all reasonable efforts to promote
the health and well-being of any such trees and shall not at any time trim
trees in a manner that causes unsightly conditions to arise. The city shall not
be liable for any damages, injuries, or claims arising from permit holders' or
facility owners' actions under this section. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-14: INVENTORY:
   A.   Permit holders shall maintain a list of its wireless service facilities
located in the city and the utility as-builts for associated underground
appurtenances and shall provide the city an inventory of the location and/or
as-built of each such wireless facility and appurtenances upon request from the
city. Upon the city's written request, permit holders shall provide the
information within thirty (30) days of city's request. The inventory of
wireless service facilities shall include GIS coordinates, date of
installation, city pole ID number (if applicable), type of pole used for
installation, pole owner, and description/type of installation for each
wireless facility. With respect to wireless service facilities that become
inactive, the inventory shall include the same information as active
installations in addition to the date the wireless service facility was
deactivated and the date the wireless service facility was removed from the
public right-of-way. City may compare the inventory to its records to identify
any discrepancies.
   B.   In the event a permit holder's contact information changes and differs
from the information provided on a permit application, permit holders and
facility owners shall promptly provide updated contact information to the city
for emergency purposes. (Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
9-11-15: INSTALLATIONS ON TRAFFIC SIGNALS, STREET SIGNAGE, OTHER TRAFFIC
CONTROL STRUCTURES, AND LIGHTING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Installations of wireless facilities on a traffic signal structure or
lighting structure must not interfere with the integrity of the structure in
any way that may compromise the safety of the public and must be in strict
conformance with an agreement applicable to each such installation and the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Installation of wireless facilities on any traffic signal structure
shall:
      1.   Be encased in a separate conduit than the traffic signal or lighting
electronics;
      2.   Have a separate electric power connection than the traffic signal or
lighting structure; and
      3.   Have a separate access point than the traffic signal or lighting
structure.
   C.   The city shall have the ability to temporarily cut-off electricity to
the wireless facilities for the safety of maintenance personnel. In the event
of failure of components of the traffic signal system for whatever reason,
including damage resulting from vehicular collisions, weather-related events,
or malicious attacks, city will respond to restore traffic signal operations as
a matter of public safety. Should the events that result in damage or failure
of the traffic signal system also affect provider's wireless facilities,
provider shall have the sole responsibility to repair or replace its wireless
facilities and shall coordinate its own emergency efforts with the city. (Ord.
6262, 2-25-19)
9-11-16: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
   A.   The city reserves the right to install, and permit others to install,
utility facilities in the public right-of-way. In permitting such work to be
done by others, the city shall not be liable to provider for any damage caused
by those persons or entities.
   B.   The city reserves the right to locate, operate, maintain, and remove
city traffic signal poles in the manner that best enables the operation of its
traffic signal system and protects public safety.
   C.   The city reserves the right to locate, operate, maintain, and remove
any city pole or structure located within the public right-of-way in the manner
that best enables the city's operations and protects public safety. (Ord. 6262,
2-25-2019)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Codes Adopted
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Fees
10-1-4: Automatic Smoke Detection Systems
10-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The international building code, 2018, and its
appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building code commission pursuant
to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing construction, alteration, and remodel of
buildings and structures, one copy of which has been filed in the office of the
city clerk and the same and any future amendments thereto, is hereby adopted
and incorporated as though fully set out at length herein, and from the
effective date, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits
of the city.
Where any provision contained within the international building code and its
appendices is in conflict with the provisions contained within chapter 10,
"Flood Damage Prevention", of this title the provisions contained in chapter 10
of this title shall prevail.
      1.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection A, the
international building code is amended as follows:
         a.   Declaration Of Policy: The mayor and board of commissioners of
the city of Ponca City find that the use of wood and wood shake shingles upon a
building or structure increases the hazard that the flames of a nearby fire may
spread to that building or structure. It is their desire that the use of wood
shingles be reduced. The commission determines that in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare the citizens of the city should not be
compelled by deed restrictions, restrictive covenants or otherwise to use wood
shingles for their homes, buildings or other structures and that the public
health, safety and welfare would be better protected if any such coercive
processes were made invalid and unenforceable. At the same time, the commission
is aware that developers and residents of subdivisions presently burdened by
such restrictions on the use of wood shingles are interested in maintaining the
aesthetic value of their neighborhood and that any law declaring these
covenants to be invalid and unenforceable should also recognize the interest of
developers and residents.
         b.   Requirements Mandating Use Of Wood And Wood Shake Shingles
Invalid And Unenforceable: Deed restrictions, restrictive covenants, building
association rules, contracts, plats or other instruments, whether existing or
hereafter created, which require or effectively require the use of wood or wood
shake shingles on any building or structure are hereby declared to be invalid
and unenforceable. It shall be unlawful for any individual or organization to
establish or enforce any deed restrictions, restrictive covenants, building
association rules, contracts, plats or other instruments, which prevent or
effectively prevent the owner from using roof coverings other than wood. Such
owners shall have the option to substitute roof covering materials that are
reasonably compatible in color and appearance with the existing roofs in the
same subdivision. This determination of reasonable compatibility shall be made
by the developer, architectural or building committee, homeowners' association
or other similar committee in compliance with the legally created covenants in
each subdivision, or in compliance with the regulations of any homeowners'
association with the legal authority to make such a determination, if any, but
only to the extent that their determination does not avoid or effectively avoid
the purposes of this subsection A. Their determination of reasonable
compatibility will be appealable to the construction appeals board in
accordance with title 3, chapter 9 of this code the same as if the decision had
been made by the code official.
      2.   Limitations: The provisions of subsection A1b of this section shall
not be construed to abridge or abrogate the authority of deed restrictions,
restrictive covenants, building association rules, contracts, plats, other
instrument, the developer, architectural or building committee, homeowners'
association or other similar committee with legal authority in any respect
other than in the enforcement of restrictive covenants requiring the use of
wood and wood shake shingles.
   B.   Residential Code: The international residential code, 2018 and its
appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission pursuant
to 59 O. S. 1000.23 is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing construction, alteration, and remodel of
existing buildings and structures, one copy of which has been filed in the
office of the city clerk and the same and any future amendments thereto is
hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length herein and
from the effective date, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city.
      1.   Climate And Geographic Design Criteria: Table R301.2(1) is amended
to read as follows:
       WIND DESIGN                           SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM   ICE
GROUND                       Wind-  SEISMIC                           BARRIER   Winter        AIR      MEAN
SNOW   Speed Topo-   Special borne  DESIGN              Frost         UNDERLAY  Design FLOOD  FREEZING ANNUAL
LOAD   (mph) graphic wind    debris CATEGORY Weathering line  Termite EQUIPMENT Temp   HAZARD INDEX    TEMP
             effect  region  zone                       depth         REQUIRED
       WIND DESIGN                                SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM   ICE
GROUND                        Wind-    SEISMIC                             BARRIER   Winter        AIR      MEAN
SNOW   Speed Topo-   Special  borne    DESIGN                Frost         UNDERLAY  Design FLOOD  FREEZING ANNUAL
LOAD   (mph) graphic wind     debris   CATEGORY   Weathering line  Termite EQUIPMENT Temp   HAZARD INDEX    TEMP
             effect  region   zone                           depth         REQUIRED

                                                                                            See
       115                                                                                  City
15     (90)  No      No       No       A          Severe     24    M/H     Yes       13     Ord    597      58.3
                                                                                            10-10-
                                                                                            3
Manual Design Criteria
                              Winter   Summer     Altitude Correction      Indoor Design           Heating
Elevation            Latitude Heating  Cooling    Factor                   Temperature             Temperature
                                                                                                   Difference
1007 feet            36       9        97         .098                     72F Summer 70F Winter   61F
Cooling Temperature  Wind     Wind     Coincident
Difference           Velocity Velocity Wet Bulb   Daily Range              Winter Humidity         Summer Humidity
                     Heatin g Cooling
25F                  10 mph   15 mph   74         M                        25%                     55%
 
      2.   Where any provision contained within the International Residential
Code and Its appendices are in conflict with the provisions contained within
City Code, Title 10, Chapter 10, entitled “Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance”,
the provisions contained in Chapter 10 shall prevail.
   C.   Property Maintenance Code: The International Property Maintenance Code,
2018 and its appendices is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of
prescribing regulations for the minimum maintenance of buildings, structures,
and premises, one (1) copy of which has been filed in the office of the City
Clerk and the same and any future amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully set out at length herein and from the effective date, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City.
   D.   Existing Building Code: The international existing building code, 2018,
and its appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building code commission
pursuant to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 is hereby adopted by the city for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing construction, alteration, and
remodel of existing buildings and structures, one copy of which has been filed
in the office of the city clerk and the same and any future amendments thereto,
is hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length herein,
and from the effective date, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within
the limits of the city.
   E.   Energy Conservation Code:
      1.   The international energy conservation code, 2009, and its appendices
is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of incorporating energy saving
provisions into the construction, alteration, and remodel of buildings and
structures, one copy of which has been filed in the office of the city clerk
and the same and any future amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and
incorporated as though fully set out at length herein and from the effective
date, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
      2.   Where any provision contained within the international energy
conservation code and its appendices is in conflict with the provisions
contained within the international residential code, the international
residential code shall prevail. (Ord. 5995, 1-26-2004; amd. Ord. 6130, 12-13-
2010; Ord. 6143, 8-22-2011; Ord. 6144, 9-12-2011; Ord. 6202, 4-27-2015; Ord.
6226, 11-28-2016; Ord. 6276, 3-9-2020; Ord. 6304, 2-14-2022; Ord. 6330, 6-26-
2023)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or phrases are used in the building code adopted
by the provisions of this chapter, they shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them:
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official of the city.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The city attorney for the city.
JURISDICTION: Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the building code
adopted by the provisions of this chapter, it shall be held to mean within the
municipal limits of the city of Ponca City, Oklahoma. (Ord. 5968, 3-11-2002)
10-1-3: FEES:
   A.   Payment Required For Permit Issuance: No permit required by the city
building code shall be issued until the fee prescribed in this section shall
have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be approved until the
additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the
building or structure, shall have been paid. (1980 Code § 8-36; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Permit Fees: The following types of building permit fees shall be
required in such amounts as established by resolution of the board of
commissioners from time to time:
      1.   Construction of any building or structure, a fee for each one
hundred (100) square feet of floor space in the building or structure,
including porches.
      2.   Reroofing or repairing the roof of any existing building or
structure.
      3.   Alteration of any existing building or structure.
      4.   Demolition of a building or structure, a fee for each story in
height of such building or structure.
      5.   Erection of a display sign.
      6.   Certificate of occupancy.
      7.   Revocable permit.
      8.   Construction of a swimming pool or tennis court.
      9.   Minimum fee for any permit issued under the provisions of this
section. (1980 Code § 8-36; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance Of Work; Refund:
      1.   In case of abandonment or discontinuance, the cost of the work
performed under a permit may be estimated, and adjustment of the fee made and
the portion of the fee for uncompleted work returned to the permit holder;
provided, that no refund of a prescribed minimum fee shall be made.
      2.   If such discontinuance is due to revocation of permit, a similar
adjustment and return may be made; provided no refund shall be made until all
penalties incurred or imposed by due authority have been collected.
      3.   After such a refund has been made, no work shall be resumed until a
new application has been made and a new permit has been issued.
   D.   Estimated Cost Defined: The term "estimated cost" as used in this
section means the reasonable value of all services, labor, materials, and use
of scaffolding and other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to
the prosecution and completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided, that
the cost of excavation or grading and of painting, decorating or other work
that is merely for embellishment or not necessary for the safe and lawful use
of the building or structure, is not deemed a part of such estimated cost.
(1980 Code § 8-36)
10-1-4: AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Definitions:
    OCCUPANT: The responsible party for maintaining in good working order the
required smoke detector(s).
   OWNER: The responsible party for providing and installing in good working
order the required smoke detector(s).
   R-1: This use group shall include all hotels, motels, boarding houses and
similar buildings arranged for shelter and sleeping accommodations for more
than five (5) occupants, who are primarily transient in nature, occupying the
facilities for a period of less than thirty (30) days, or as defined per the
current edition of the applicable building code.
   R-2: This use group shall include all multiple-family dwellings having more
than two (2) dwelling units, and shall also include all boarding houses and
similar buildings arranged for shelter and sleeping accommodations in which the
occupants are primarily not transient in nature, or as defined per the current
edition of the applicable building code.
   R-3: This use group shall include all buildings arranged for occupancy as
one- or two-family dwelling units, including not more than five (5) lodgers or
boarders per family and multiple single-family dwellings where each unit has an
independent means of egress and is separated by a two (2) hour fire separation
assembly, or as defined per the current edition of the applicable building
code.
   R-4: This use group shall include all detached one- or two- family dwellings
not more than three (3) stories in height and the accessory structures, or as
defined per the applicable building code.
   I-1: This use group shall include buildings and structures which house six
(6) or more individuals who, because of age, mental disability or other
reasons, must live in a supervised environment but who are physically capable
of responding to an emergency situation without personal assistance, or as
defined per the current edition of the applicable building code.
   B.   Inspection And Testing: All smoke detectors shall be inspected in place
at twelve (12) month intervals to identify missing detectors, detectors with
impeded smoke entry, dirty detectors and detectors no longer properly located
because of occupancy or structure changes. Additionally, a test shall be
performed at twelve (12) month intervals to ensure that each smoke detector is
in an operable condition and produces the intended response by causing the
detector to initiate an alarm at the installed location with smoke or other
aerosol acceptable to the manufacturer and to demonstrate that smoke will enter
the chamber and initiate an alarm.
   C.   Type; Installation: Single and multiple station smoke detectors shall
be of an approved type and shall be installed in accordance with the provisions
of the applicable code and the household fire warning equipment provisions for
NFPA 72.
   D.   Location Requirements: Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall
be installed and maintained in full operating condition in the locations
described herein.
      1.   Use Group R-1: Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall be
installed and maintained in the following locations in use group R-1:
         a.   In all sleeping areas;
         b.   In every room in the path of the means of egress from the
sleeping area to the door leading from the guest room or suite; and
         c.   In each story within the guest rooms or suites, including
basements. For guest rooms or suites with split levels and without any
intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke detector installed on the
upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level; provided, that the
lower level is less than one full story below the upper level.
      2.   Use Groups R-2 And R-3:
         a.   Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall be installed and
maintained in all occupancies in the use groups R-2 and R-3 at the following
locations:
            (1)   In the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
            (2)   In all bedrooms; and
            (3)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements.
         b.   Exceptions:
            (1)   In dwelling units with split levels and without an
intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke detector installed on the
upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level; provided, that the
lower level is less than one full story below the upper level.
            (2)   In buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler
system, smoke detectors are not required in bedrooms where the bedrooms are
equipped with residential sprinklers.
      3.   Use Group R-4:
         a.   Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall be installed and
maintained in all occupancies in the use groups R-4 at the following locations:
            (1)   In the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
            (2)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements.
         b.   Exceptions: In dwelling units with split levels and without an
intervening door between the adjacent levels, a smoke detector installed on the
upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower level; provided, that the
lower level is less than one full story below the upper level.
      4.   Use Group I-1: Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall be
installed and maintained in all sleeping areas in occupancies in use group I-1.
Single or multiple station smoke detectors shall not be required where the
building is equipped throughout with an automatic detection system.
   E.   Interconnection: Where more than one detector is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in an occupancy in use group R-
2 or R-3, or within an individual guestroom or suite in an occupancy in use
group R-1, the detectors shall be interconnected in such a manner that the
actuation of one alarm will actuate all the alarms in the individual unit.
   F.   Battery Backup: In addition to the required AC primary power source,
required smoke detectors in occupancies in use groups R-2, R-3 and I-1 shall
receive power from a battery when the AC primary power source interrupted.
Battery backup shall not be required for smoke detectors in buildings equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system.
   G.   Acceptance Testing: When the installing of the detectors is complete,
each detector, and all interconnecting wiring for multiple station detectors,
shall be subject to one hundred percent (100%) acceptance test in accordance
with the household fire warning equipment provisions of NFPA 72.
   H.   Violation: It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of
this section or to tamper with, remove, destroy, disconnect or remove power
from any installed smoke detector, except in the course of inspection, testing,
maintenance and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the general penal
provisions of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Adoption Of Electrical Codes
10-2-2: Applicability Of Adopted Codes
10-2-3: Electrical Inspector
10-2-4: Registration And Revocation Of Registration
10-2-5: Permits, Fees, Inspections, Plans, Temporary Service
10-2-6: Service Entrances
10-2-7: Minimum Wire Size
10-2-8: Mechanical Requirements
10-2-9: Criminal Offenses; Nonlicensed Work, Diverting Around Meter
10-2-10: Customer Owned Generation Systems
10-2-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODES:
   A.   National Electric Code: There is hereby adopted by the city for the
purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of
electrical wiring, and as a practical safeguard of persons, buildings and their
contents from the hazards of wiring for the use of electricity for light, heat,
power, radio, signaling and other purposes, that certain electrical code known
as the national electrical code, 2020 edition, as amended by the Oklahoma
uniform building code commission pursuant to the authority granted it by 59
Oklahoma Statutes section 1000.23, and future supplemental amendments to that
code as they are published, except for the provisions thereof which are
deleted, modified, added, amended by other sections of this chapter and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated into the city code as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from and after July 26, 2023, the provisions thereof
shall control the installation of all electric wiring and equipment installed
and contained within the corporate limits of the city or upon such wiring and
equipment which shall connect directly or indirectly to the electric power
transmission lines owned and operated by the city or its public trust, the
Ponca City utility authority. In addition, annex H of the national electrical
code, 2020 edition, is hereby adopted with the following exclusions: article
80.15 (electrical board), and article 80.27 (inspector's qualifications).
   B.   National Electrical Safety Code: There is hereby adopted by the city
for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the safeguarding of
persons during the installation, operation, or maintenance of electrical supply
and communications lines and associated equipment, that certain electrical code
known as the national electrical safety code, 2007 edition, and future
amendments to the code as they are published except for the provisions thereof
which are hereinafter deleted, modified, added to or amended, one copy of which
shall be filed with the office of the city clerk, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated into the city code as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from and after December 1, 2009, the provisions thereof shall
control the electrical safety practices occurring within the corporate limits
of the city or upon such wiring and equipment which shall connect directly or
indirectly to the electric power transmission lines owned and operated by the
city or its public trust, the Ponca City utility authority. Exceptions,
modifications or amendments to the provisions of the national electrical safety
code shall be as defined in that document known as "Ponca City Utility
Authority Customer Service Guidelines". (Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009;
amd. Ord. 6279, 6-8-2020; Ord. 6330, 6-26-2023)
10-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF ADOPTED CODES:
The electrical codes adopted by the provisions of this chapter shall cover the
electrical conductors and equipment installed within or on public and private
buildings and other premises including yards, parking lots, industrial
substations and the conductors that connect the installation to a supply of
electricity and other outside conductors adjacent to the premises. (1980 Code §
13-102; amd. 2003 Code)
10-2-3: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Position Created: For the purpose of administering the codes adopted by
the provisions of this chapter, there is hereby created the position of
electrical inspector.
   B.   Qualifications: The electrical inspector shall be a competent
electrician, shall have had at least five (5) years' practical experience as an
electrician, or be a qualified city inspector meeting the requirements for
electrical inspector as provided for by regulations of the construction
industries board of the state of Oklahoma, and he shall devote his entire time
to the services of the city. He shall not engage in nor be a member of any
firm, corporation or partnership engaged in electrical contracting,
installation of electrical wiring or devices nor the sale of electrical
fixtures, appliances, or related fields.
   C.   Appeals: The decisions and requirements of the electrical inspector
shall, at all times, be reasonable. Any person feeling himself aggrieved by a
decision or requirement of the electrical inspector may make written appeal
therefrom to the board of construction appeals. A hearing will be held on the
same within ten (10) calendar days of the time the appeal is filed and the
board of construction appeals shall issue its order affirming, overruling or
modifying the inspector's determination within five (5) calendar days of the
hearing. (Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009)
10-2-4: REGISTRATION AND REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration With City: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade or vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or
apprentice electrician or do any electrical work for which an electrical permit
is required without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
city, the fee for which shall be as established by the board of commissioners.
   B.   Issuance Of Registration; Term: The electrical inspector shall issue
such registration upon presentation of a valid license issued by the state and
upon payment of the required fee. All registrations shall expire annually on
June 30.
   C.   Certificate Nontransferable: The certificate is not transferable to any
other individual or company.
   D.   Revocation Of Certificate Of Registration; Hearing:
      1.   Any certificate of registration issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked, suspended or the holder thereof put on probation or
sanctioned, following a hearing before the construction appeals board for the
following reasons, if the board finds by clear and convincing evidence that the
holder has:
         a.   Made a material misstatement in the application for any license
or renewal thereof;
         b.   Loaned or is illegally using a license;
         c.   Violated any provisions of this code;
         d.   Demonstrated incompetence to act as a journeyman electrician,
apprentice electrician, or electrical contractor;
         e.   Violated any provisions of the Oklahoma electrical license act 1
, or any rule, regulation or order prescribed by the state committee of
electrical examiners or any ordinance or regulation for the installation of
electrical facilities made or enacted by a city or town by authority of the
electrical license act; or
         f.   Wilfully failed to perform normal business obligations without
justifiable cause.
      2.   All such hearings shall be preceded by actual notice of the hearing
to the certificate holder, reasonable time for preparation after receipt of
notice, right to confront witnesses, right to subpoena witnesses and such other
due process rights as are provided by law.
      3.   The board may further recommend in writing to the state of Oklahoma
construction industries board that the state license of the person charged with
misconduct also be revoked.
   E.   Administrative Fine Schedule Adopted: The schedule of fines listed in
the state statutes promulgated under authority of the electrical license act 2
, the mechanical licensing act 3 , and the plumbing license law of 1953 4  and
subsequent editions of such acts and law are hereby adopted and shall be used
by the city when complaints are issued by building and code officials or
designated representatives. The construction appeals board shall hear
complaints relating to improper conduct and make decisions regarding assessment
of fines for failure to comply with rules and regulations promulgated under
authority of the above mentioned acts and law. (Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-
1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 1680 et seq.
2 1. 59 OS § 1680 et seq.
3 2. 59 OS § 1850.1 et seq.
4 3. 59 OS § 1001 et seq.
10-2-5: PERMITS, FEES, INSPECTIONS, PLANS, TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   A.   Permit Required: No electrical work, with the exceptions as noted in
currently adopted editions of the National Electrical Code and the
International Residential Code, may be performed on electric services or
systems served by the Ponca City electric distribution system unless the person
performing such work, or an authorized applicant representing that person,
obtains a valid permit from the electrical inspector or his designee.
Modification of a residence or building to add solar panels, wind generators,
or other generation that can put power on the Ponca City electric distribution
system also requires a valid permit. Permit fees shall be as established by the
Board of Commissioners and shall be paid before issuance of the permit, except
by prior agreement between the applicant and City Code officials. (Ord. 6251,
4-23-2018)
   B.   Plans And Specifications: Architects, builders and applicants for
building permits will be required to submit plans and specifications of
proposed work showing the electrical wiring scheme to the electrical inspector
for examination prior to issuance of a building permit for the work.
Thereafter, the electrical details of the work shall not be changed except as
noted on the plans and with the consent of the electrical inspector. Stamped
and/or engineered plans will be required where mandated by State regulations.
City building officials are authorized to waive submission of construction
documents and other data not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is such
that review of construction documents is not necessary to obtain compliance
with appropriate codes.
   C.   Temporary Services:
      1.   Residential: When it is necessary to have electricity on any
installation during the construction of any building and before the electrical
installation is completed and a final certificate can be issued, the electrical
inspector may issue a temporary permit provided all wiring to which current is
to be applied is, in the judgment of the electrical inspector, in a safe and
satisfactory condition.
         a.   Before any temporary service permit is issued, the applicant
shall have paid a fee, as established by the Board of Commissioners, for cost
of issuing the permit.
         b.   Temporary permits shall require a meter with a minimum charge, as
established by the Board of Commissioners, plus the cost of electric
consumption per month.
         c.   Temporary permits shall not be issued or used after the permanent
wiring is installed.
         d.   A sturdy temporary service pole or structure shall be provided at
the location where service is to be used by the applicant for said service that
will provide a minimum ten foot (10') clearance between the bottom service wire
and the ground.
         e.   A disconnect switch must be provided, installed with service
wires in suitable conduit to the top of the pole.
         f.   A ground wire must be connected to a ground rod driven to a depth
of six feet (6').
         g.   Temporary service connections shall be removed within thirty (30)
days after a building is completed or occupied, except by written permission of
the electrical inspector.
         h.   Temporary service poles shall be located to clear any
obstructions or as designated by the electrical inspector.
      2.   Other Construction Sites: Residential regulations will apply to
small commercial sites except that services will be metered. Commercial or
industrial establishments requiring larger amounts of electrical power shall
contact the Ponca City utility authority for rates and regulations. (Ord. 6110,
11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009)
10-2-6: SERVICE ENTRANCES:
   A.   The customer shall provide a socket type meter base at a point not
exceeding six feet (6') above the ground on the outside of the exterior wall at
the nearest point to the most accessible service pole and must not be at any
time enclosed by any rooms, porches or any other additions to the building.
Meters that are now inside and cannot be read without entering some part of the
building must be moved outside and installed in accordance with the
requirements of this Code. The customer will be responsible for providing the
City with an approved point of attachment for overhead service wires. At no
time shall the City make or be held liable for an attachment to a structure.
   B.   For underground service feeders, the use of direct burial cable is not
allowed. The feeders shall be run in PVC, rigid, or other rated and approved
conduit. When PVC or other plastic conduit is used the burial depth is to be a
minimum of twenty four inches (24"). Minimum burial depths of other approved
conduit will be as specified by the applicable code as adopted by the City.
(Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009)
   C.   All secondary services (600 volts and below) must have an identifiable
neutral wire. The wire may be solid white in color or contain a consistent
white line from end to end.
   D.   Electrical secondary service masts (600 volts and below) may contain
only one set of secondary service wires. Where the service will feed more than
one electrical breaker, the wires must be sized according to the sum of the
downstream main breaker current ratings. It is permissible to run parallel
wires for high current single devices. (Ord. 6121, 6-14-2010)
10-2-7: MINIMUM WIRE SIZE:
Wiring in all branch circuits shall be no. 12 AWG or larger and shall be of
copper conductors. Aluminum romex shall not be used, except as specified on
underground services. (Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009)
10-2-8: MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Electrical equipment and wiring shall be installed in a neat and workmanlike
manner, in accordance with accepted industry practices as specified in the
Electrical Codes adopted by the City and the ANSI approved standards. (Ord.
6110, 11-23-2009, eff. 12-1-2009)
10-2-9: CRIMINAL OFFENSES; NONLICENSED WORK, DIVERTING AROUND METER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any nonlicensed person to
perform any electrical work for which a permit is required, unless that person
is the record owner of and resides in the property on which the electrical work
is performed.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to modify the
equipment or wiring, either inside, or that feeds current to, a meter enclosure
in such a manner that electrical current does not pass through the electric
meter.
   C.   These offenses shall be subject to fine or imprisonment consistent with
the maximum jurisdiction of the Municipal Court. (Ord. 6110, 11-23-2009, eff.
12-1-2009)
10-2-10: CUSTOMER OWNED GENERATION SYSTEMS:
Any customer of the City who desires to connect customer owned, electrical
generation equipment to the customer's structures which are also served by the
City's electrical system, may do so only under the following conditions:
   A.   No nonrenewable forms of generation may be interconnected with Ponca
City Energy's distribution system.
   B.   Prior to installation, plans for the project must be submitted to
Development Services Department for review. Upon approval of such plans
following this review, Development Services may issue a permit for the
installation.
   C.   Upon completion of the project under such a permit, and before
energization, an inspection must be made by the City and the installation must
be approved in order to assure safe operation and compliance with all
applicable codes. Upon successful inspection, Ponca City Energy shall be
notified by the City so that proper metering can be installed; any cost of that
meter or installation in excess of the costs for standard meters must be paid
by customer.
   D.   Customers with connected generation will be metered and billed
according to the Ponca City distributed generation billing rates and
guidelines. The customer charge and energy charges rates shall account for a
credit to the customer's bill which accounts for excess energy generated by the
customer's system which is not used by customer. (Ord. 6251, 4-23-2018)
CHAPTER 3
MECHANICAL AND FUEL GAS CODES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Codes Adopted
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: Registration; Bond; Insurance
10-3-4: Marking Of Vehicles Required
10-3-5: Revocation Of Certificate Of Registration
10-3-6: Administrative Fine Schedule Adopted
10-3-7: Penalty
10-3-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Mechanical Code And Fuel Gas Code: The international mechanical code,
2018, and its appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building code
commission pursuant to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 and the international fuel
gas code, 2018, and its appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building
code commission pursuant to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 are hereby adopted by
the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the installation
of mechanical and fuel gas appliances within buildings and structures, one copy
of which has been filed in the office of the city clerk and the same and any
future amendments thereto are hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully
set out at length herein and from the effective date, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
   B.   Exception To Code: In no case shall copper, copper alloy tubing, or any
solvent cementing of any plastic pipe be approved for fuel gas piping,
fittings, or materials. (Ord. 5959, 10-22-2001; amd. Ord. 6202, 4-27-2015; Ord.
6302, 1-24-2022)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases in this chapter shall be as defined in the state mechanical
licensing act, 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1850.1 et seq., and the city's
mechanical code. (2003 Code)
10-3-3: REGISTRATION; BOND; INSURANCE:
   A.   City Registration Required: No person shall work at the occupation or
engage in the business of installing, altering, replacing or repairing any
mechanical equipment, fixtures or apparatus within the city without registering
with the mechanical inspector and securing a mechanical contractor's
registration. The mechanical inspector shall issue such registration upon
presentation of a valid license or registration issued by the state
construction industries board and upon payment of the required fee. (Ord. 6125,
7-12-2010)
   B.   Term Of Registration; Bond And Insurance: Applicants for certificates
of registration, after complying with the laws of the state and with the city
code, and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified, shall be registered
by the city. The registration shall expire annually, on June 30, but may be
renewed from year to year. Mechanical contractors desiring to renew their
registration shall furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing
laws and an official copy of the approved bond and insurance filed with the
state of Oklahoma.
   C.   Expiration; Renewal: All mechanical registrations not renewed within
ninety (90) days after the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a
new application for registration must be made and the fee for a new
registration must be paid.
   D.   Fee: The fee for registration shall be as set forth by the board of
commissioners by resolution.
   E.   Exemptions: All services performed by utility companies operating under
a franchise agreement, and the employees of such utility companies or city, are
hereby exempt from subsection A of this section for work done under the
supervision and direction of the utility companies or city. (2003 Code)
10-3-4: MARKING OF VEHICLES REQUIRED:
All vehicles used in local work shall display signs stating the name of the
contractor and the contractor's state identification number in black letters at
least two inches (2") high, affixed to both sides of the vehicle. (Ord. 6125,
7-12-2010)
10-3-5: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Reasons For Revocation: Any certificate of registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be revoked, suspended or the holder thereof
put on probation or sanctioned, following a hearing before the construction
appeals board for the following reasons, if the board finds by clear and
convincing evidence that the holder has: (1980 Code § 19.5-6; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Made a material misstatement in the application for any license or
renewal thereof;
      2.   Loaned or is illegally using a license;
      3.   Violated any provisions of this code;
      4.   Demonstrated incompetence to act as a journeyman or apprentice HVAC
tradesperson or HVAC contractor;
      5.   Violated any provisions of the Oklahoma mechanical licensing act 1 ,
or any rule, regulation or order prescribed by the state committee of
mechanical examiners or any ordinance or regulation for the installation of
mechanical facilities made or enacted by a city or town by authority of the
mechanical licensing act; or
      6.   Wilfully failed to perform normal business obligations without
justifiable cause. (1980 Code § 19.5-6)
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: All such hearings shall be preceded by actual notice
of the hearing to the certificate holder, reasonable time for preparation after
receipt of notice, right to confront witnesses, right to subpoena witnesses and
such other due process rights as are provided by law. (1980 Code § 19.5-6; amd.
2003 Code)
   C.   Revocation Of State License: The board may further recommend in writing
to the state construction industries board that the state license of the person
charged with misconduct also be revoked. (Ord. 6125, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 1850.1 et seq.
10-3-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINE SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
The schedule of fines listed in the state statutes promulgated under authority
of the electrical license act 1 , the mechanical licensing act, and the
plumbing license law of 1955 2  and subsequent editions of such acts and law
are hereby adopted and shall be used by the city when complaints are issued by
building and code officials or designated representatives. The construction
appeals board shall hear complaints relating to improper conduct and make
decisions regarding assessment of fines for failure to comply with rules and
regulations promulgated under authority of the above mentioned acts and law.
(1980 Code § 19.5-8)
 
Notes
1 2. 59 OS § 1680 et seq.
2 3. 59 OS § 1001 et seq.
10-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person, who shall violate a provision of this adopted code shall be guilty
of an offense. (Ord. 5959, 10-22-2001)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Code Adopted; Exceptions
10-4-2: Enforcement
10-4-3: Registration; Bond; Insurance
10-4-4: Marking Of Vehicles Required
10-4-5: Revocation Of Certificate Of Registration
10-4-6: Administrative Fine Schedule Adopted
10-4-7: Penalty
10-4-1: CODE ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Plumbing Code: The international plumbing code, 2018, and its
appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building code commission pursuant
to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing the installation and repair of plumbing
fixtures in buildings and structures, one copy of which has been filed in the
office of the city clerk and the same and any future amendments thereto is
hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length herein and
from the effective date, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   In no case shall polybutylene (PB) plastic pipe be approved or used
as water distribution piping, fittings, or materials.
      2.   Underground drainage piping. Any portion of the drainage system
installed underground or below a basement or cellar shall not be less than two
inches (2") (51 mm) in diameter.
      3.   Section 906.1 of the international plumbing code (The developed
length of the fixture drain from the trap weir to the vent fitting for self
siphoning fixtures, such as water closets, shall not be limited.) is hereby
deleted. (Ord. 5952, 7-23-2001; amd. Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007; Ord. 6202, 4-27-
2015; Ord. 6302, 1-24-2022)
10-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The plumbing inspector has authority to enforce the international plumbing code
on individuals approved by the city to tap into or be serviced by the city
utilities. (2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
10-4-3: REGISTRATION; BOND; INSURANCE:
   A.   Definitions: The phrases and words "journeyman plumber", "plumber's
apprentice", "plumbing contractor", and "plumbing", when used in this section,
regulations and other official acts and communication of the city, shall have
the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes section
1001 et seq., the state plumbing license law, and the city's plumbing code,
unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning. (2003 Code)
   B.   City Registration Required: No person shall work at the occupation or
engage in the business of installing, altering, replacing or repairing any
plumbing equipment, fixtures or apparatus within the city without registering
with the plumbing inspector and securing a plumbing contractor's registration.
The plumbing inspector shall issue such registration upon presentation of a
valid license or registration issued by the state construction industries board
and upon payment of the required fee. (Ord. 6125, 7-12-2010)
   C.   Term Of Registration; Bond And Insurance: Applicants for certificates
of registration, after complying with the laws of the state and with the city
code, and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified, shall be registered
with the city. The registration shall expire annually, on June 30, but may be
renewed from year to year. Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their
registration shall furnish the same evidence of compliance with the state
licensing laws, and an official copy of the approved bond and insurance filed
with the state of Oklahoma.
   D.   Failure To Renew: All plumbing registrations not renewed within ninety
(90) days after the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new
application for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration
paid.
   E.   Fee: The board of commissioners shall adopt the fee for registration by
resolution, from time to time. (2003 Code)
10-4-4: MARKING OF VEHICLES REQUIRED:
All vehicles used in local work shall display signs stating the name of the
contractor and the contractor's state identification number in black letters at
least two inches (2") high, affixed to both sides of the vehicle. (Ord. 6125,
7-12-2010)
10-4-5: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Reasons For Revocation: Any certificate issued under the provisions of
this chapter may be revoked, suspended or the holder thereof put on probation
or sanctioned, following a hearing before the construction appeals board for
the following reasons, if the board finds by clear and convincing evidence that
the holder has: (1980 Code § 27-6; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Made a material misstatement in the application for any license or
renewal thereof;
      2.   Loaned or is illegally using a license;
      3.   Violated any provisions of this code;
      4.   Demonstrated incompetence to act as a journeyman or apprentice
plumber or plumbing contractor;
      5.   Violated any provisions of the Oklahoma plumbing license law of 1955
1 , or any rule, regulation or order prescribed by the state committee of
plumbing examiners or any ordinance or regulation for the installation of
plumbing facilities made or enacted by the city by authority of the plumbing
license law of 1955; or
      6.   Wilfully failed to perform normal business obligations without
justifiable cause.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: All such hearings shall be preceded by actual notice
of the hearing to the license holder, reasonable time for preparation after
receipt of notice, right to confront witnesses, right to subpoena witnesses and
such other due process rights as are provided by law. (1980 Code § 27-6)
   C.   Revocation Of State License: The board may further recommend in writing
to the state construction industries board that the state license of the person
charged with misconduct also be revoked. (Ord. 6125, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 1001 et seq.
10-4-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINE SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
The schedule of fines listed in the state statutes promulgated under authority
of the electrical license act 1 , the mechanical licensing act 2 , and the
plumbing license law of 1955 and subsequent editions of such acts and law are
hereby adopted and shall be used by the city when complaints are issued by
building and code officials or designated representatives. The construction
appeals board shall hear complaints relating to improper conduct and make
decisions regarding assessment of fines for failure to comply with rules and
regulations promulgated under authority of the above mentioned acts and law.
(1980 Code § 27-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 1680 et seq.
2 2. 59 OS § 1850.1 et seq.
10-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate a provision of the adopted code shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 5952, 7-23-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4A
INDIVIDUAL AEROBIC WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Findings
10-4A-2: State Law Adopted
10-4A-3: Definitions
10-4A-4: Permit Required For Operation/Modification
10-4A-5: Discharge Of Wastewater Effluent Prohibited
10-4A-6: Requirements For Installation, Operation, And Maintenance
10-4A-7: Design Of System
10-4A-8: Maintenance And Upkeep
10-4A-9: Surface Application Of IAWS Effluent
10-4A-10: Separation From Other Structures
10-4A-11: Penalty
10-4A-1: FINDINGS:
Aerobic wastewater systems anticipate the spraying of domestically generated
waste, including human waste, into the air and this in and of itself presents a
hazardous activity if treatment and disinfection methodologies fail. Knowing
that all humanly engineered machinery fails sooner or later, these regulations
are designed to prevent such failures where possible and to detect such
failures in a timely fashion without imposing an unreasonable economic burden
on those wishing to employ aerobic wastewater systems. But foremost, these
regulations are designed to protect the public health.
Recognizing also the close proximity of Lake Ponca, a public water source, to
land where such systems may be employed further compels the adoption of these
regulating ordinances in recognition of the primacy that clean, potable water
plays in the maintenance of public health. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
Oklahoma Statutes, including the Oklahoma administrative code title 252,
chapter 641 and any amendments thereof, as they relate to on site individual
aerobic systems, are hereby adopted as ordinances of the city except as the
same may differ from the specific ordinances herein set forth. In which case,
these ordinances of the city shall be the prevailing law. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-
2006)
10-4A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings:
AEROBIC SYSTEM: A sewage treatment system that treats sewage in an aerobic
treatment unit and then applies the treated sewage to the surface through a
sprinkler system.
AEROBIC TREATMENT: The digestion of organic matter and settleable solids in an
oxygenated environment to produce a clarified liquid.
CERTIFIED INSTALLER: A person in the business of installing or constructing
individual sewage treatment systems who has been certified by the Oklahoma
department of environmental quality to inspect their aerobic treatment systems
installations.
DOSING TANK: A storage reservoir that contains an automatically controlled pump
that is capable of delivering sewage to an on site sewage treatment system at a
specified hourly rate.
INDIVIDUAL AEROBIC WASTEWATER SYSTEM (IAWS): An individually owned "aerobic
system" that sprays wastewater effluent into the air.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: A sewage disposal system that treats sewage
from one individual residence or duplex and is not available for use by the
general public.
INDIVIDUALLY OWNED: A wastewater system which is not publicly owned.
INSTALLER: A person who installs or who is in the business of contracting to
install or furnishing labor to install on site sewage treatment systems.
MODIFICATION: The expansion or relocation of any part of an existing on site
sewage treatment system, which does not fall under the definition of new
installation.
REPAIR: The repair of any part of an existing individual sewage treatment
system or the replacement of any part of an existing on site sewage treatment
system as long as the replacement part is placed in the exact same location
that the original part had been located.
SEWAGE: Wastewater that generally originates as human waste from certain
activities including using toilet facilities, washing, bathing, preparing foods
and washing laundry, excluding industrial wastewater. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-4: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPERATION/MODIFICATION:
   A.   No person shall install or modify an existing IAWS until the owner of
the property where the system is or will be located has applied for and
obtained a permit therefor from the plumbing inspector or designee. A permit
shall issue therefor upon satisfaction of all applicable state of Oklahoma
prerequisites, the filing of an approved design plan conforming to the criteria
established by this chapter and payment of necessary fees. No permit shall be
required for repair work. No permit shall be required for repairs to the
system.
   B.   Regular, periodic inspections of the installation of the system shall
be conducted by the plumbing inspector or his/her designee so as to assure
construction thereof according to its approved design and the rules herein
established. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-5: DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER EFFLUENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall and no property owner shall permit wastewater effluent from an
IAWS to be sprayed upon a public street, public property, children's toys or
property owned by another person. A minimum setback of fifteen feet (15') shall
be maintained from the surface application area to an adjoining public street,
public property, or property owned by another person. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE:
No person shall operate an IAWS or permit another person to operate an IAWS on
his or her property without:
   A.   No IAWS shall be constructed on any lot or acreage of less than one
acre and no such lot or acreage, once an IAWS system is constructed thereon,
shall ever be subdivided to less than one acre in size.
   B.   Obtaining and maintaining current all applicable permits from the
Oklahoma department of environmental quality and the city of Ponca City for the
installation, operation, and maintenance of an IAWS;
   C.   Obtaining and retaining the services of a maintenance person/company
licensed by the Oklahoma department of environmental quality for maintenance of
the IAWS to assure that it is operated and maintained in accordance with
manufacturer's recommendations and requirements and those of the Oklahoma
department of environmental quality;
   D.   Keeping a log showing the IAWS was installed, operated and maintained
in accordance with these ordinances;
   E.   Providing subsequent property owners a copy of the log and notice of
these requirements prior to the time any offer of purchase is made on the
property served by the IAWS. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-7: DESIGN OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Components: Individual aerobic wastewater systems shall be comprised of
the following:
      1.   Trash Tank: There shall be a trash tank that meets ODEQ structural
requirements, and has a minimum capacity of three hundred (300) gallons or the
daily flow, whichever is greater. The trash tank shall have an opening of
sufficient size to allow for maintenance. The cover for the opening shall have
a lock, locking bolt or some type of fastener, or require a tool for removal.
      2.   Dosing Tank: If the daily flow of an IAWS fluctuates so that the
flow on any given day during the week exceeds the aerobic treatment unit's
daily capacity, then an aerobic system may not be used unless a dosing tank
meeting ODEQ requirements is installed between the trash tank and the aerobic
treatment unit.
      3.   Aerobic Treatment Unit: There shall be an aerobic treatment unit
that meets ODEQ requirements, and is rated at or above the average daily flow.
      4.   Method Of Disinfection: There shall be a method to disinfect the
treated sewage between the aerobic unit and the pump tank. The disinfection
method must effectively reduce the fecal coliform bacteria to less than 200
MPN/1,000 ml. If chlorination is used as the disinfection method, a free
chlorine residual of one milligram per liter (1 mg/l) must be maintained.
      5.   Pump Tank: There shall be a pump tank, which shall:
         a.   Meet the structural requirements of the ODEQ;
         b.   Have a minimum capacity of seven hundred (700) gallons or, for
systems with an average flow over three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day,
have a capacity of at least twice the average daily flow;
         c.   Have a sampling port in the pump tank at the discharge outlet or
in the treated sewage line following the pump tank;
         d.   Have a float in the pump tank set so that the pump tank is never
more than one-half (1/2) full;
         e.   Have a high water alarm set to activate if the pump tank becomes
more than one-half (1/2) full; and
         f.   Have an opening of sufficient size to allow for maintenance. The
cover for the opening shall have a lock, locking bolt or some type of fastener,
or require a tool for removal.
      6.   Sprinkler System: There shall be a sprinkler system to apply
properly treated sewage onto the surface of the ground.
      7.   Alarm: There shall be an alarm to alert the owner/operator of a
system failure.
   B.   Solid Pipe: The solid pipe used to connect the components of an aerobic
system must meet the specifications of the ODEQ. Unless a lift pump is
utilized, there shall be a fall between:
      1.   The trash tank and the aerobic treatment unit; and
      2.   The aerobic treatment unit and the pump tank. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-8: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP:
   A.   All aerobic systems shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturers' specifications and be perpetually covered by maintenance
contracts with persons licensed or certified by ODEQ to install and/or maintain
aerobic systems.
   B.   Annually, upon the anniversary date of the issuance of the construction
permit, the permit holder must submit satisfactory evidence to the code
enforcement department that the aerobic system is currently covered by such a
contract. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-9: SURFACE APPLICATION OF IAWS EFFLUENT:
   A.   Application Area: The application area must:
      1.   Meet the following size requirements:
Condition Minimum Surface Application Area (Square Feet)
Condition                             Minimum Surface Application Area (Square
                                      Feet)
3 or less bedrooms                       2,945
4 bedrooms                               3,740
5 bedrooms                               4,490
Greater than 4,000 square feet (floor    4,490
plan living area)
Sewage flow 500 gallons/day              5,616
Sewage flow 600 gallons/day              6,739
Sewage flow 700 gallons/day              7,862
Sewage flow 800 gallons/day              8,986
Sewage flow 900 gallons/day              10,109
Sewage flow 1,000 gallons/day            11,232
 
      2.   Be vegetated and landscaped and/or terraced to prevent runoff.
      3.   Have a ten foot (10') setback from adjacent property lines.
   B.   Uniform Application: Sprinklers shall be designed to provide uniform
distribution of treated effluent over the entire surface application area.
      1.   The sprinkler must be designed to spray without misting. Nozzles
must have a thirteen degree (13°) or less trajectory to keep the spray stream
low to the ground surface.
      2.   Surface application shall be controlled by a timing device and shall
take place daily between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      3.   Overlapped areas may only be counted once toward meeting the total
application area requirement.
      4.   The owner of the aerobic system is responsible for meeting the
following testing requirements and minimum standards:
    SAMPLING FREQUENCY AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS FOR ON SITE SURFACE APPLICATION
OF TREATED SEWAGE OF IAWS
 
Required Tests         Minimum Standards          Frequency
                       1 mg/liter in or after the
Free chlorine residual pump tank                  2 per year, to be performed
Or                     Or                         every 6 months
Fecal coliform         <200 MPN/1,000 ml in or
                       after the pump tank
BOD and TSS            Less than 65 mg/liter      1 per year
 
      5.   If available, testing shall be performed by a professional
certified/licensed to perform sampling. Testing of the sample must be performed
by a laboratory certified/licensed to perform the tests required. Test results
shall be submitted to the city of Ponca City code enforcement department in the
same format approved for such sampling by the ODEQ. Testing and reporting does
not relieve or replace the testing and reporting requirements to ODEQ imposed
by Oklahoma Statutes or the Oklahoma administrative code.
      6.   The application rate shall be adjusted and maintained in a manner
which will not allow runoff from the property served by the IAWS. (Ord. 6045,
8-14-2006)
10-4A-10: SEPARATION FROM OTHER STRUCTURES:
Individual aerobic wastewater systems and their respective components shall be
separated from other structures as set out in the table below:
MINIMUM SEPARATION DISTANCE (Feet)
Item Requiring Protection On Site Sewage System Tankage Sprinkler Heads Spray
Item Requiring Protection    On Site Sewage System Sprinkler Heads Spray
                             Tankage
Private water well              100                100          15
Public water well               300                300          250
Public surface water supply     300                300          250
(to normal elevation pool)
Buildings                       15                 15           15
Storm water conveyance          15                 15           15
Property line                   10                 10           10
Subsurface drain                15                 15           15
Impoundment (pond) or stream    30                 30           30
Streets and sidewalks           10                 15           15
 
(Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
10-4A-11: PENALTY:
Any violation of the sections of this chapter shall be an offense punishable
within the jurisdictional limits of the municipal court. (Ord. 6045, 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE PREVENTION CODES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Codes Adopted
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Storage Of Flammables; Bulk Plants Restricted
10-5-4: Routes For Transporting Explosives, Hazardous Chemicals
10-5-5: Fire Lanes On Private Property, Devoted To Public Use
10-5-6: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies; Permits
10-5-7: Penalties
10-5-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   International Fire Code: The international fire code, 2018, and its
appendices as adopted by the Oklahoma uniform building code commission pursuant
to 59 Oklahoma Statutes 1000.23 is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, one copy of which has been filed in the office of the
city clerk and the same, and any future amendments thereto, is hereby adopted
and incorporated as though fully set out at length herein, and from the
effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city.
   B.   Life Safety Code:
      1.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) life
safety code 101, latest edition, one copy of which has been and now is filed in
the office of the city clerk and the same, and any future amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and
from the date this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city. (1980 Code § 14-84)
      2.   Enforcement By Fire Marshal: The latest edition of NFPA 101 life
safety code, hereinabove adopted, shall be enforced by the fire marshal of
Ponca City. (1980 Code § 14-85)
      3.   Violations; Penalties: Any person who shall violate any provisions
of the code hereinabove adopted, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken or who shall fail to comply with an order as
affirmed or modified by the fire marshal or by a court of competent
jurisdiction within the time fixed by said fire marshal or court, shall
severally for each and every violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations and defects within a reasonable
time; and each ten (10) days that a prohibited condition is maintained shall
constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 14-86) (amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6226,
11-28-2016; Ord. 6304, 2-14-2022)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the fire prevention code adopted by
the provisions of this chapter, it shall be held to mean the city of Ponca
City, Oklahoma. (Ord. 5964, 1-28-2002)
10-5-3: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES; BULK PLANTS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Flammable Liquids In Outside Aboveground Tanks:
      1.   No person shall store flammable liquids in aboveground storage tanks
outside of buildings except in conformance with section 3404, chapter 34 of the
international fire code. (Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
      2.   Storage of flammable liquids aboveground in the industrial park area
is limited to one tank of one thousand (1,000) gallons or less capacity per
five (5) acres or portion thereof. Usage is limited to on site nonretail needs.
In addition, each processor in the area may have one tank not to exceed five
hundred (500) gallons for storage of fuel for equipment used to mow grass, push
snow, etc., or one tank per product per five (5) acres.
      3.   Property developed for public power generating plants and related
facilities may be allowed aboveground storage tanks for on site usage. All
installation must comply with the provisions of NFPA pamphlet no. 30-A. (1980
Code § 14-49)
   B.   Class I Flammable Liquids: The erection and maintenance of storage
tanks, either above or below ground, for the storage of class I flammable
liquids in residential districts is prohibited, except as follows: (1980 Code §
14-50; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Where such properties are to be used for heating purposes in a
residence located upon the property;
      2.   Any nonresidential or nonretail use area may have tanks not to
exceed five hundred (500) gallons each for storage fuel for equipment used to
mow grass, push snow, etc., or one tank per product per five (5) acres. Such
location shall not be within six hundred feet (600') of a residential
structure. All installation must comply with the provisions of NFPA pamphlet
no. 30-A. (1980 Code § 14-50)
   C.   New Bulk Plants: The limits referred to in chapter 34 of the fire
prevention code adopted by the provisions of this chapter in which new bulk
plants for flammable liquids are prohibited are hereby established as follows:
Not closer than one-fourth (1/4) mile to the nearest city limits. (1980 Code §
14-51; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases; Building, Businesses Restricted:
      1.   The limits referred to in chapter 8 of the NFPA 58 liquefied
petroleum gas code, 2004 edition, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is prohibited, is hereby established as the city limits of Ponca City,
except in the area known as the Ponca City industrial park. (Ord. 6071, 12-10-
2007)
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to establish, erect, construct, or
enlarge a plant or place of business where liquefied petroleum gas or gases are
to be manufactured or physically distributed or handled, except in the
industrial park area of the city. (1980 Code § 14-52; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Explosives And Blasting Agents: The limits in which storage of
explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are hereby established as follows:
At least one-half (1/2) mile from the city limits in an approved magazine.
(1980 Code § 14-53; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Manufacture And Storage Of Fireworks: The limits in which manufacture
and storage of fireworks is prohibited are hereby established as the entire
city limits. (1980 Code § 14-54; amd. 2003 Code)
10-5-4: ROUTES FOR TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES, HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS:
   A.   The routes for vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents
shall be as established by the fire marshal and the traffic engineer.
   B.   The routes referred to in the international fire code for vehicles
transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles shall be as
established by the fire marshal and the traffic engineer. (Ord. 6071, 12-10-
2007)
10-5-5: FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY, DEVOTED TO PUBLIC USE:
The fire lanes referred to in appendix D of the international fire code shall
be as established by the fire chief of the fire department and the city
engineer. (Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
10-5-6: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS:
The mayor, the chief of the fire department and the fire marshal shall act as a
committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in said code. The
fire marshal shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (1980 Code § 14-60)
10-5-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of the codes adopted by this chapter or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as
affirmed or modified by the fire marshal or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Remedial Action: The application of the above penalty shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (1980 Code § 14-61)
CHAPTER 6
SIGNS; NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH 1
SECTION:
10-6-1: Conditions For Issuance Of Permit
10-6-2: No Permit Fee Required; Permit Revocable
10-6-3: Maintenance
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11, chapter 12, Sign Regulations", of this code.
10-6-1: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The building official shall issue a permit to erect neighborhood watch area
signs within all zoning districts if the following conditions are met:
   A.   The signs are requested by a neighborhood watch association
representing the majority of the property owners within the boundaries of any
delineated area.
   B.   The signs must be installed on private property and cannot interfere
with the sight triangle.
   C.   A sign can only be placed on a lot with the consent of the owner of
said lot.
   D.   The signs shall only be placed on a corner lot at the entrance to a
delineated area, provided however, that the building inspector may approve an
alternate location other than a corner lot when all other conditions contained
in this section are met.
   E.   No additional signs of any nature shall be attached to these signs or
their supports.
   F.   All signs must be in conformance with the city traffic engineering
department's design standard no. 8.3 as to size, shape, color, legend, mounting
height and installation details. (1980 Code § 29.5-21)
10-6-2: NO PERMIT FEE REQUIRED; PERMIT REVOCABLE:
No fee shall be required for any permit issued under this section. All permits
issued shall be revocable under action by the board of commissioners. (1980
Code § 29.5-24)
10-6-3: MAINTENANCE:
All signs authorized herein shall be purchased, installed and maintained in a
clean, legible, erect and properly mounted condition by the neighborhood watch
association. (1980 Code § 29.5-23)
CHAPTER 7
FENCES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Required At Swimming Pools
10-7-2: Barbed Wire Fencing
10-7-3: Electrified Barriers
10-7-4: Construction On Or Across Utility Easements
10-7-5: Retaining Wall, Permit
10-7-1: REQUIRED AT SWIMMING POOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a swimming pool in the city
without having enclosed said pool with an approved fence of at least four feet
(4') in height. (1980 Code § 8-86; amd. 2003 Code)
10-7-2: BARBED WIRE FENCING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain barbed wire
fencing within the city limits, except barbed wire fencing may be used upon
lands within the city used exclusively for agricultural purposes, and except
further, that barbed wire may be used upon security type fences in other than
agricultural areas of the city if the lowest barbed wire upon said security
type fence is more than six feet (6') above the surrounding ground level. (1980
Code § 8-87)
10-7-3: ELECTRIFIED BARRIERS:
Any fence or barrier conducting electrical current shall be erected in
compliance with the following:
   A.   Agricultural Use: If serving as the primary means for deterring entry
or escape, be erected on land utilized exclusively for agricultural purposes
and be a minimum distance of fifty feet (50') from any building occupied as a
place of residence by any person other the installer and his/her family; or
   B.   Enclosure Required: Be wholly enclosed within another fence or barrier
at least four feet (4') in height such as a wooden fence or chainlink fence
which is designed in such a manner as to exclude entry except by one scaling
its height.
   C.   Transformer Control Mechanism: In either of the above established
lawful uses, the electrical barrier must consist of a transformer control
mechanism which provides for short intervals of electrification followed by
intervals wherein the conductor is not electrically charged and, if using
alternating current as a power source, the mechanism has been approved by
Underwriters' Laboratories or similar testing service. (Ord. 5936, 7-10-2000)
10-7-4: CONSTRUCTION ON OR ACROSS UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to
construct a fence on or across a utility easement shall, prior to construction
of the fence, make an application for a permit with the building inspector of
the city. Said application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and permanent address of the applicant.
      2.   The legal description of the property upon which the fence will be
constructed.
      3.   A plat of the property showing where the fence will be constructed
on or across the utility easement,
      4.   Type of fence to be constructed and height of fence. (1980 Code § 8-
89)
   B.   Fee: The application will be accompanied by a fee, in such amount as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time, for
the issuance of the revocable permit. (1980 Code § 8-89; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Requirements: The building inspector of the city may issue the
revocable permit to construct a fence on, over or across a utility easement
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   No fence shall be constructed forward of the front yard setback upon
the property and shall be limited to a height of six feet (6').
      2.   Where the fence encloses an easement, a gate will be provided at
each end of said easement which said gate will be the full width of said
easement to afford access the full width of the easement to the city or any
other utility franchise owner or any service individual or company requiring
access to service utilities.
      3.   The revocable permit will be issued subject to gates remaining
unlocked at all times, and said fact will be noted in the permit.
      4.   The revocable permit will be issued subject to the property owner
not erecting any structures, or making any plantings in the easement which will
restrict access on and across said easement by any individual or corporation
entitled to use the same. This will also be noted on the permit.
      5.   Where damage to plantings or structures in an easement does occur
because of emergency or utility vehicle traffic, the city or utility companies
causing said damage shall be held blameless and absolved of any and all
responsibility for repair or replacement of said structures or plantings.
   D.   Penalty For Violation: Any person, firm or corporation who shall erect
a fence on or across a utility easement without having first obtained a
revocable permit as set out above or shall erect said fence in violation of the
requirements set out in this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day said violation continues shall be a separate
offense. (1980 Code § 8-89; amd. 2003 Code)
10-7-5: RETAINING WALL, PERMIT:
The building official shall consider any application for the construction of a
retaining wall on any street, alley, parking or other public way. The applicant
for such retaining wall shall make a written application for a special permit
to construct same to the building official, together with an application fee in
such amount as established by resolution of the board of commissioners from
time to time, payable to the city, and a plot plan, drawing and such other data
as he may require. The board of commissioners may or may not direct that a
special permit issue for such retaining wall, upon such terms and conditions as
directed by the board. Provided, that any such permit shall be worded as a
revocable permit to be revoked by the city on reasonable notice in writing to
the record owner of said property. (1980 Code § 26-33; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Conformity Required
10-8-2: Permit Required; Hearing
10-8-3: Permit Fees
10-8-4: Application Of Code To Other Work
10-8-5: Completion Of Work
10-8-6: Masonry Veneer Buildings
10-8-7: Interference With Wires Or Cables
10-8-8: Obstruction Of Streets
10-8-9: Protection Of Property
10-8-10: Street Damage
10-8-1: CONFORMITY REQUIRED:
If any building or structure be moved into the city, or any building within the
city moved to another location, the same shall not be set down in any location
in which regulations governing new buildings would forbid the erection of a new
building identical therewith, nor shall said building or structure be moved
into an area unless said building is comparable or better in quality than the
existing structures in that area. (1980 Code § 8-49)
10-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; HEARING:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any building is moved upon property other than
the lot or lots upon which it was originally located, a permit for moving the
same shall be obtained from the building official, and he shall not issue such
permit until the planning commission has approved the moving of the building or
structure to the property for which the permit was requested.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: The planning commission shall set the same for
public hearing and shall give notice of such hearing as required by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 43-104.
   C.   Approval; Issuance: Upon approval of the same by the planning
commission, a permit for the moving and placing of the building or structure
upon the property shall be issued by the building official. (1980 Code § 8-50;
amd. 2003 Code)
10-8-3: PERMIT FEES:
For frame buildings, and when buildings are moved in sections regardless of
exterior finish, other than masonry veneer, the following types of fees to be
charged for permits required by the provisions of this chapter shall be in such
amounts as established by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to
time:
   A.   A fee for each three hundred (300) square feet or fraction thereof of
total area, including porches, regardless of whether the floors of such porches
are to be moved or not; plus
   B.   A fee for each block of travel over the streets and other public ways
in the city; plus
   C.   A fee for each foot of width or fraction thereof in excess of twenty
eight feet (28'). (1980 Code § 8-53; amd. 2003 Code)
10-8-4: APPLICATION OF CODE TO OTHER WORK:
Any work, entirely within the confines of any private property, including the
construction of a new foundation for any relocated or raised building, shall be
considered subject to all the provisions of the building code, and a proper
building permit shall be taken out covering the same. (1980 Code § 8-51)
10-8-5: COMPLETION OF WORK:
All relocated buildings or structures shall be completed as to the exterior
appearances within ninety (90) days from the day the building or structure is
placed on the land where the said building or structure is to be permanently
located. (1980 Code § 8-52)
10-8-6: MASONRY VENEER BUILDINGS:
No permit shall be issued for the moving of any frame building with masonry
veneer within the city. (1980 Code § 8-54)
10-8-7: INTERFERENCE WITH WIRES OR CABLES:
   A.   Notice Required: Whenever for the purpose of moving any building or
structure it is necessary to raise, lower or cut any wires or cables belonging
to a public service corporation or to the city, it shall be the duty of the
house mover to give the person owning or operating said wires or cables at
least twenty four (24) hours' written notice of the location where such removal
will be necessary.
   B.   Moving Wires; Payment Of Wages: After the serving of notice, as
aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the person owning or operating such wires or
cables to furnish competent workmen or linemen to remove, raise, lower or cut
such wires or cables, and to replace the same when such moving has been
completed. The regular wages of such workmen or linemen shall be paid by the
house mover while they are engaged in such work.
   C.   Wires Raised By House Mover: No house mover shall raise, lower, cut or
remove any pole, wire or cable unless the person owning or having control of
the same shall fail or refuse to do so after due notice as aforesaid, and then
only competent workmen or linemen shall be employed on such work under the
supervision of the chief of the fire department or the electrical inspector, or
both. All work shall be done in a careful and workmanlike manner and the poles,
wires and cables promptly replaced and any damages properly repaired at the
expense of the house mover. (1980 Code § 8-55)
10-8-8: OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
Any building or structure being moved on the streets or public ways of the city
shall be moved continuously during working hours. When any building is left
standing on any street or public way at night, two (2) or more red lights shall
be posted at each end thereof, and all other obstructions in the street or
public way shall be safeguarded. All lights shall be in good order and lighted
from sunset to sunrise. No such building shall be left standing at night in any
street intersection, and the house mover shall notify the chief of police and
the chief of the fire department of the location of any such building standing
in the street at night. (1980 Code § 8-56)
10-8-9: PROTECTION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Planks Required: When necessary to protect pavement, curbs, sidewalks
or underground structures, planks of sufficient size and thickness to prevent
injury thereto shall be laid under the wheels of the moving trucks.
   B.   Other Requirements: The building official shall have the power to
require the use of other precautionary measures than those specifically
mentioned in this chapter when necessary to protect life, property, or public
improvements. (1980 Code § 8-57)
10-8-10: STREET DAMAGE:
If any damage shall be caused to any street improvement, pole, wire, or cable,
tree, shrub, traffic sign, fire hydrant, underground structure, manhole,
vehicle, or other structure or article rightfully in or on any street or public
way traversed by any building or structure moved, directly or indirectly in
consequence of such moving, the licensee shall repair the same or cause the
same to be repaired at his expense. If said licensee shall fail or refuse to do
so within ten (10) days from the date of sending to him notice by mail of the
nature and location of such damage, his license shall be suspended, all
outstanding permits granted to him shall be suspended, and no further permits
shall be issued to him until such claim is paid. (1980 Code § 8-58)
ARTICLE A. HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
10-8A-1: License Required; Application
10-8A-2: Fees
10-8A-3: Bond Required
10-8A-4: Insurance Required
10-8A-5: Issuance Of License; Expiration
10-8A-6: License Nontransferable
10-8A-7: Automatic Cancellation
10-8A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to move any house
or other structure, or to engage in the business of house moving, without first
obtaining a license to do so. (1980 Code § 8-66)
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to engage in business as a house mover
shall make application for a license to do so to the city clerk. (1980 Code §
8-67)
10-8A-2: FEES:
The fee for a license required by the provisions of this article shall be in
such amount, as established by resolution of the board of commissioners from
time to time, for the first year or fraction thereof, unless application is
made after July 1 in any year, in which case the fee for a license for the
remainder of the year shall be one-half (1/2) the amount of the annual fee.
Such license may be renewed from year to year thereafter on payment in such
amount per annum as established by resolution of the board of commissioners
from time to time. (1980 Code § 8-68; amd. 2003 Code)
10-8A-3: BOND REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to engage in the business of house moving shall first
execute and deliver to the city clerk a performance bond in the penal sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Such bond shall run in favor of the city and
be conditioned upon the performance of all contracts and that all house moving
made by them or under their direction shall be in conformity with the city. Any
person aggrieved may bring any action upon said bond with equal rights as
though such aggrieved persons had been named as the obligee in said bond. (1980
Code § 8-69)
10-8A-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
In addition to executing the required bond, every person desiring to carry on
the business of house moving before being licensed therefor by the city shall
furnish to the city clerk, subject to the approval by the board of
commissioners, a liability insurance policy. Such policy shall name the city as
an additional named insured and be in the minimum amounts of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) bodily injury to each person, three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) bodily injury each accident and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) property damage each accident. Said policy shall agree to
defend the city in any action filed against it and pay any judgment rendered
against it within the above limits. (1980 Code § 8-70)
10-8A-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
   A.   Issuance: Upon payment of the required license fee, and upon approval
of the required bond and insurance policy, the city clerk shall issue the
license required by the provisions of this article to the applicant therefor.
(1980 Code § 8-71)
   B.   Expiration: Licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall
expire on December 31 following the date of issuance thereof. (1980 Code § 8-
74)
10-8A-6: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferable.
(1980 Code § 8-72)
10-8A-7: AUTOMATIC CANCELLATION:
Any license issued under the provisions of this article shall automatically be
cancelled and become void if the bond and insurance policy required by this
article shall be permitted to lapse by the licensee. (1980 Code § 8-73)
CHAPTER 10
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-10-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: General Provisions
10-10-4: Administration
10-10-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-10-6: Penalties For Noncompliance
10-10-7: Miscellaneous
10-10-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Oklahoma has
in (statutes) 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1601 through 1618, as amended,
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city of Ponca City, Oklahoma,
ordains the following.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Ponca City are subject to
periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Structures which are on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year
and those areas established in subsection 10-10-3B of this chapter. The area
may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO or A1-99.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation of the base flood relative to the national
geodetic vertical datum (NGVD), North American vertical datum (NAVD), or other
datum specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) used to establish the
flood hazard area.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BOARD: The Oklahoma water resources board.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: Providing for the volume of space occupied by an
authorized fill or development within the flood hazard area. Compensatory
storage shall compensate for and balance by a hydraulically equivalent volume
of excavation taken from below the base flood elevation at or adjacent to the
development site. All such excavations shall drain freely to the watercourse.
No area below the water line of a pond or other body of water can be credited
as compensatory storage.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: A. Structures or facilities that produce, use, or store
highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water reactive materials;
   B.   Hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain occupants who
may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid death or injury during a flood;
   C.   Police stations, fire stations, vehicle and equipment storage
facilities, and emergency operations centers that are needed for flood response
activities before, during, and after a flood; or
   D.   Public and private utility facilities that are vital to maintaining or
restoring normal services to flooded areas before, during, and after a flood.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION: The base flood elevation plus 1.0 vertical foot for all
structures that are not a critical facility. For structures included within or
serving a critical facility the design flood elevation means the elevation of a
flood having a 0.2 percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year plus 1.0 vertical foot.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in
zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the
case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building"
also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. The
effective date of the FIRM is July 2, 1980. "Existing construction" may also be
referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD DAMAGE RESISTANT MATERIALS: Construction material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining any damage
that requires more than cosmetic repair.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevations
of the base flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and mean
velocities.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the board and appointed by the
city commission, to administer and implement laws and regulations relating to
the management of the floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure, and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the national flood insurance program,
the North American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM (July 2, 1980) or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of these
regulations or ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by these regulations. (For full requirements see
section 60.6 of the national flood insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10)
or (d)(3) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
10-10-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city of Ponca
City, Oklahoma. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For Kay
County And Incorporated Areas", dated December 17, 2013, with accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of these regulations. (Ord. 6182, 10-28-2013)
      1.   Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas: The flood hazard area shall be
established by the Ponca City floodplain administrator or the city engineer
utilizing the base flood elevation established from one of the following:
         a.   The flood insurance study for the city of Ponca City, initially
adopted July 2, 1980, and revised on November 18, 1988, as amended or revised
with the accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and flood boundary and
floodway map (FBFM) and related supporting data and any revisions thereto
(effective until September 25, 2009, when superseded by subsection B1b of this
section);
         b.   The flood insurance study for the city of Ponca City, dated
September 25, 2009, as amended or revised with the accompanying flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) and related supporting data and any revisions thereto;
         c.   Bois d' Arc tributaries stormwater master plan dated July 2009,
prepared by Meshek & Associates, Inc., and related supporting data (for areas
beyond the limits of detailed study in subsection B1b of this section);
         d.   Arkansas River tributaries stormwater master plan dated July
2009, prepared by Meshek & Associates, Inc., and related supporting data (for
areas beyond the limit of detailed study in subsection B1b of this section);
and
         e.   If available, a report submitted by the applicant at their
expense prepared by a licensed professional engineer using acceptable
engineering hydrology and hydraulic methods to establish a base flood elevation
and subsequent flood hazard area.
      2.   Description Of Flood Hazard Area: The flood hazard area shall
include the area above the base flood elevation to the elevation of the design
flood elevation.
   C.   Establishment Of A Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: A development permit, as required by this chapter,
shall be obtained prior to the commencement of any development, redevelopment,
building, excavating, grading, regrading, paving, placement of fill, berming or
diking of any property within the flood hazard area of the city. The
development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Exemptions: A development permit shall not be required for the
following activities:
         a.   Bona fide agricultural and farming operations which constitute
the principal use of any lot or tract of ground in the city and which meet the
requirements of the zoning code of the city of Ponca City;
         b.   Customary and incidental routine grounds maintenance,
landscaping, and home gardening which does not require a zoning use exception,
a zoning minor variance or a building permit, and which does not affect
stormwater drainage entering or leaving any public right of way;
         c.   Emergency repairs, of a temporary nature, made on public or
private property which are necessary for the preservation of life, health or
property, and which are made under such circumstances where it would be
impossible or impracticable to obtain a development permit;
         d.   Temporary excavation for the purpose of repairing or maintaining
any public street, public utility facility or any service lines related
thereto; and
         e.   Routine maintenance of the stormwater drainage system that does
not alter the initial design capacity of an improved drainage system or does
not alter the conveyance capacity of a natural channel that is in a well
maintained condition.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
10-10-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The development services
director of the city of Ponca City shall be the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. The floodplain administrator shall be accredited by the
state of Oklahoma and shall be a certified floodplain manager (CFM) either
through the state of Oklahoma or through the Association Of State Floodplain
Managers (ASFPM).
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of these regulations.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these regulations.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, the Oklahoma water resources board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   Shall obtain certified base flood elevation data from the applicant/
developer to administer this chapter effectively and reduce flood damage within
the community.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood at any point within the community.
      10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first complies with 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12.
      11.   Become accredited by the board in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1618, as amended.
      12.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city of Ponca City, Oklahoma, determine if the residential and
nonresidential structures and manufactured homes located in the SFHA have been
substantially damaged and enforce the substantial improvement requirement.
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   General Requirements: Applications for a development permit required
under this section shall be submitted to the development services department
and shall be accompanied by a development site plan.
      2.   Permit Application: The application and development site plan shall
contain all information as required in title 12, chapter 8 of this code.
      3.   Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Approval or denial of a development
permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of these regulations and the following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The city commission shall hear and render judgment on requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The city commission shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the city
commission may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction on
allegations of arbitrary, capricious or vague.
      4.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
      5.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
      6.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the design flood elevation.
      7.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the board of adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (subsection 10-10-1C of this chapter).
      8.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      9.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      10.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances.
         c.   No variance shall be granted for a structure to be constructed
below the base flood elevation.
      11.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in subsections C3a through C3j of this
section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
      12.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
floodplain administrator, accompanied by a filing fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      13.   A copy of any variance issued shall be sent to the OWRB within
fifteen (15) days of issuance. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
10-10-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   Compensatory storage shall be provided if filling or development
diminishes the flood storage capacity of any regulatory floodplain.
      9.   New construction, substantial improvements or other development
(including fill) shall not be approved if it:
         a.   Adversely affects the capacity of channels or floodways of any
watercourse herein identified as in the area of special flood hazard to convey
the regulatory flood.
         b.   Would measurably increase flood flows or flood heights or
increase flood damage upon off site properties during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood.
         c.   Would individually, or combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, expose additional upstream, downstream or adjacent
properties to adverse flood effects that would otherwise not be exposed to such
effects due to the regulatory flood.
         d.   Increases velocities or volumes of floodwaters to the extent that
significant erosion of floodplain soils would occur either on the subject
property or on some other property upstream or downstream.
         e.   Does not provide compensatory storage for any measurable loss of
flood storage capacity.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Critical Facilities: New construction and substantial improvement of
any critical facility shall have the lowest floor (including basement) and all
utilities, elevated at a minimum of one foot (1') above the 0.2 percent flood
(500-year) elevation. A registered professional engineer or land surveyor shall
submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that this standard is
satisfied.
      2.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) and all utilities, elevated at a minimum of one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land
surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that this
standard is satisfied.
      3.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) and all utilities elevated at
a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood level. A registered
professional engineer or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that this standard is satisfied. There is certain
nonresidential construction not intended for the sheltering of persons that are
for purposes of drainage, transportation, certain storage facilities, and
utilities that by nature of their purpose cannot be elevated a minimum of one
foot (1') above the base flood level; those certain structures shall be
constructed of flood damage resistant materials to one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation.
      4.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      5.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at a minimum
of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: 1)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
of the manufactured home and all utilities shall be elevated at a minimum of
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. Also, the home shall be installed by a licensed installer and
comply with state law.
         c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with
zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection B4 of this section be elevated so that the bottom of
the I-beam of the manufactured home and all utilities a minimum one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement
supporting the manufactured home chassis and also installed by a licensed
installer that complies with state law.
      6.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsections 10-10-4C1 and C2 of
this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured
homes" in subsection B5 of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
      7.   Accessory Structure:
         a.   Structure is low valued and represents a minimal investment.
         b.   Structure shall be small and not exceed six hundred (600) square
feet in size.
         c.   Structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
         d.   Structure can be used only for parking and limited storage.
         e.   Structure shall not be used for human habitation (including work,
sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas).
         f.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated at a minimum of one foot (1') above the BFE.
         g.   Structure is constructed and placed on building site so as to
offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         h.   Structure is designed to have low flood damage potential, i.e.,
constructed with flood resistant materials.
         i.   Structure is firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
         j.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure.
         k.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE.
         l.   Structure is to be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent
and nearby structures.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with subsections 10-10-1B, C,
and D of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of subsections 10-10-3C and 10-10-4C of this chapter and
the provisions of this section.
      3.   Regulatory floodplain elevation data and floodplain delineation
shall be generated and clearly shown for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to subsection 10-10-3B
or 10-10-4B8 of this chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards and shall comply with title 12, chapter 8 of this
code.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   D.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within
the areas of special flood hazard established in subsection 10-10-3B of this
chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (3') where
a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flows may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a
minimum of one foot (1') above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as
the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if
no depth number is specified).
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a
minimum of one foot (1') above the highest adjacent grade and at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet
if no depth number is specified).
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section are satisfied.
      4.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      5.   The foregoing requirements of this subsection are minimal
requirements and shall not relieve any new construction or substantial
improvements from meeting and complying with additional requirements and
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection 10-10-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since
the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
that carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection E1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      3.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community complies with all of 44 CFR
chapter 1, section 65.12. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
10-10-6: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than the maximum fine provided by the laws of the state of Oklahoma for
the Ponca City municipal court in effect at the time of violation or imprisoned
for not more than the maximum period of time provided by the laws of the state
of Oklahoma for the Ponca City municipal court in effect at the time of the
violation, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
commission of Ponca City, Oklahoma, or the city attorney from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 6103,
7-27-2009)
10-10-7: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Severability: If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this
chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
   B.   Conflicting Terms Of Other Ordinances: In the event of a conflict with
the provisions of this chapter with other ordinances including, but not limited
to, the zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, building code, or other
ordinances of the city of Ponca City within the regulatory floodplain the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   C.   Effective Date: It is hereby found and declared by the city commission
of Ponca City, Oklahoma, that severe flooding has occurred in the past within
its jurisdiction and will certainly occur within the future; that flooding is
likely to result in infliction of serious personal injury or death, and is
likely to result in substantial injury or destruction of property within its
jurisdiction; in order to effectively comply with minimum standards for
coverage under the national flood insurance program; and in order to
effectively remedy the situation described herein, it is necessary that this
chapter become effective immediately.
Therefore, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this chapter, being
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and
safety, shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval date of July 27, 2009. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
CHAPTER 11
BUILDERS' LIABILITY AND WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE
SECTION:
10-11-1: Certificate Required
10-11-2: Application Process
10-11-3: Certification Fees
10-11-4: General Liability Insurance Requirements
10-11-5: Workers' Compensation Insurance Requirements
10-11-6: Liability Of The City
10-11-7: Violation And Penalties
10-11-1: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, remodel or enlarge any
single-family or duplex residential structure within the city limits of Ponca
City without first obtaining a builder's certificate from the city. Prior to
the issuance of any building permit required by this chapter, or the adopted
building codes of the city, the applicant for the permit shall have a valid and
current builder's certificate.
   B.   A builder's certificate is not required of persons who have a valid
certificate for other special trades required by the city or state, provided
the work performed is within the authority granted therein.
   C.   Resident owners of the property are not required to obtain a builder's
certificate when performing work on their own property, provided the work is
performed by the owner; nothing herein shall relieve any person from obtaining
other licenses, permits or certificates required by this code. (Ord. 6108, 10-
26-2009)
10-11-2: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Any person who is required by this chapter to possess a builder's
certificate shall make an application to the city on forms provided by the city
for that purpose.
   B.   The lending of any builder's certificate to any person for the purpose
of obtaining building permits shall be deemed a cause for revocation. A
builder's certificate issued by the city is not transferable and violation of
this provision is cause for revocation, in addition to other penalties in this
code.
   C.   The city commission may revoke the builder's certificate for just
cause. The development services director may suspend such certificate if, in
his/her opinion, the certificate holder violates any provision of this chapter.
In such case, the development services director shall give notice of the
suspension to the builder, and such suspension shall be effective until the
city commission determines whether the certificate shall be revoked. The
builder whose certificate has been suspended shall have the right to appear
before the commission and be heard before the certificate is permanently
revoked and shall be given adequate notice of the time and place of such
hearing and the charges against the certificate holder. Such cause must be
disposed of by the city commission within thirty (30) days of the time of the
suspension. (Ord. 6108, 10-26-2009)
10-11-3: CERTIFICATION FEES:
   A.   Before such certificate is issued, a fee as established by resolution
of the city commission shall be paid to the city for the builder's registration
certificate.
   B.   Each certificate issued shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   C.   The annual renewal application, appropriate documentation and fees must
be received by the city on or before July 1 and shall be considered surrendered
if the certificate is not renewed within fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 6108, 10-26-
2009)
10-11-4: GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each builder shall procure and maintain a general liability policy of
insurance with limits per occurrence of not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). A certificate of insurance shall be provided at the time
application is made for a builder's certificate. The builder shall notify the
city within ten (10) days of termination of the policy. The city shall be named
as a certificate holder. Failure to maintain general liability insurance in the
specified limits shall cause the builder's certificate to be deemed revoked.
(Ord. 6108, 10-26-2009)
10-11-5: WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each builder who is defined in the workers' compensation act, 85
Oklahoma Statutes section 1 et seq. (the act), as an employer of employees as
defined in the act and not exempt shall be required to document to the city and
to keep in force during the life of its registration, a workers' compensation
insurance policy to protect the builder's employees against occupational
hazards and diseases as regulated and defined in the act.
   B.   A certificate of insurance for workers' compensation, with the city
named as a certificate holder, from an insurance company duly licensed to do
business in the state of Oklahoma, or proof of exemption or own risk status,
shall be submitted with the application for registration to the city. Persons
who are self- employed and do not fall under the jurisdiction of the act are
not required to submit a certificate of insurance. However, in lieu of the
certificate of insurance requirement, the applicant must execute an affidavit
certifying he is wholly self-employed and does not fall under the act, with
proof of exemption. The city attorney will establish acceptable criteria for
proof of exemption. The builder shall notify the city within ten (10) days of
termination of the policy. Failure to maintain workers' compensation insurance
shall cause the builder's certificate to be deemed revoked. (Ord. 6108, 10-26-
2009)
10-11-6: LIABILITY OF THE CITY:
   A.   The city shall not be liable if the documentation provided by the
applicant is false or the general liability insurance or workers' compensation
insurance lapses after the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 6108, 10-26-
2009)
10-11-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by this
code. (Ord. 6108, 10-26-2009)
CHAPTER 12
REGISTRATION OF ROOFING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Registration Certificate Required
10-12-2: Registration Process
10-12-3: Registration Fees
10-12-4: General Liability Insurance Requirements
10-12-5: Worker’s Compensation Insurance Requirements
10-12-6: Liability Of The City
10-12-7: Violation And Penalties
10-12-1: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to perform roofing
construction work, including but not limited to, the installation of a new roof
or the repair of an existing roof, within the city limits of Ponca City without
first obtaining a registration certificate from the City.
   B.   Resident owners of the property are not required to obtain a
registration certificate when performing work on their own property, provided
the work is performed by the owner; nothing herein shall relieve any person
from obtaining other licenses, permits or registrations required by this code.
(Ord. 6321, 1-23-2023)
10-12-2: REGISTRATION PROCESS:
   A.   Any person or entity who is required by this chapter to possess a
roofing contractor’s registration certificate shall make an application to the
City on forms provided by the City for that purpose.
   B.   The lending of any roofing contractor’s certificate to any person for
the purpose of performing roofing construction work shall be deemed a cause for
revocation. A registration certificate issued by the City is not transferable
and violation of this provision is cause for revocation, in addition to other
penalties in this code.
   C.   The City Commission may revoke the roofing contractor’s registration
certificate for just cause. The Development Services Director may suspend such
certificate if, in his/her opinion, the certificate holder violates any
provision of this chapter. In such case, the Development Dervices Director
shall give notice of the suspension to the roofing contractor and such
suspension shall be effective until the City Commission determines whether the
certificate shall be revoked. The roofing contractor whose certificate has been
suspended shall have the right to appear before the Commission and be heard
before the registration certificate is permanently revoked and shall be given
adequate notice of the time and place of such hearing and the charges against
the certificate holder. Such cause must be disposed of by the City Commission
within thirty (30) days of the time of the suspension. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-2023)
10-12-3: REGISTRATION FEES:
   A.   Before the registration certificate is issued, a fee as established by
resolution of the City Commission shall be paid to the City for the roofing
contractor’s registration certificate.
   B.   Each registration certificate issued shall expire on June 30 of each
year.
   C.    The annual renewal application, appropriate documentation and fees
must be received by the City on or before July 1 and shall be considered
surrendered if the certificate is not renewed within 15 days. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-
2023)
10-12-4: GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Each roofing contractor shall procure and maintain a general liability
policy of insurance with limits per occurrence of not less than $500,000.00. A
Certificate of Insurance shall be provided at the time application is made for
a registration certificate. The roofing contractor shall notify the City within
ten (10) days of termination of the policy. The City shall be named as a
certificate holder. Failure to maintain general liability insurance in the
specified limits shall cause the roofing contractor’s registration certificate
to be deemed revoked. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-2023)
10-12-5: WORKER’S COMPENSATION INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each roofing contractor who is defined in the Worker’s Compensation
Act, Title 85, Oklahoma Statutes, Section 1 et seq. (the Act) as an employer of
employees as defined in the Act and not exempt shall be required to document to
the City and to keep in force during the life of its registration, a worker’s
compensation insurance policy to protect the roofing contractor’s employees
against occupational hazards and diseases as regulated and defined in the Act.
   B.   A Certificate of Insurance for worker’s compensation, with the City
named as a certificate holder, from an insurance company duly licensed to do
business in the State of Oklahoma, or proof of exemption or own risk status,
shall be submitted with the application for registration to the City. Persons
who are self-employed and do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Act are not
required to submit a Certificate of Insurance. However, in lieu of the
Certificate of Insurance requirement, the applicant must execute an affidavit
certifying he is wholly self-employed and does not fall under the Act, with
proof of exemption. The City Attorney will establish acceptable criteria for
proof of exemption. The roofing contractor shall notify the City within ten
(10) days of termination of the policy. Failure to maintain worker’s
compensation insurance shall cause the roofing contractor’s registration
certificate to the deemed revoked. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-2023)
10-12-6: LIABILITY OF THE CITY:
   A.    The City shall not be liable if the documentation provided by the
applicant is false or the general liability insurance or worker’s compensation
insurance lapses after the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-
2023)
10-12-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
offence, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by the City
Code. (Ord. 6321, 1-23-2023)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Citation And Codification
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Authority
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Exemptions
11-1-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This title, including the zoning district maps made a part hereof by reference,
is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the city charter, and shall be
known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE 1999 EDITION and codified as title 11
of the city code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations contained herein are necessary to:
   A.   Encourage the most appropriate uses of land according to the policies
set forth in the Ponca City master plan;
   B.   Maintain and stabilize the value of property;
   C.   Secure safety from fire, panic and other damages to public health and
safety;
   D.   Provide adequate light and air;
   E.   Decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards;
   F.   Prevent undue concentration of population; and
   G.   Create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land uses upon which to
plan for transportation, water supply, sewerage, schools, parks, public
utilities, and other facilities. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall be in full force and effect within the corporate limits
of the city. All land within said boundaries shall be classified as being in
one of the zoning districts adopted in this title. All new additions of land to
the city shall be in the R-1 single-family residential district unless
otherwise classified by the planning commission and board of commissioners at
the time of annexation. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-1-4: AUTHORITY:
   A.   This title classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings, and
other structures as hereinafter set forth. The regulations are necessary to
promote the health, safety, convenience, and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city by dividing the city into districts and regulating therein the use of the
land as to:
      1.   Use of buildings;
      2.   Size of buildings and other structures;
      3.   Location of buildings and other structures;
      4.   Coverage of land by buildings;
      5.   Size of yards and open spaces;
      6.   Density of population; and
      7.   Conditions applicable to specified uses of land.
   B.   Restrictive covenants are a private agreement between property owners
and are not part of the zoning ordinance. Restrictive covenants are enforced by
the affected property owners, not by the city. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
Except as may be hereinafter otherwise provided, no land, building, other
structure, or improvement, shall be used, made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged, or rebuilt, that is designed, arranged, or intended to be
used or maintained for any purpose, or in any manner, except in accordance with
the use, height, lot area, density, yard and open space, and other requirements
established in the district in which such land, building, structure, or other
improvement is located, and in accordance with the provisions of the chapters
contained herein relating to any or all districts, structures and uses. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
11-1-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of any building for which a building permit has
been lawfully issued prior to the effective date hereof, and pursuant to such
permit, construction of which is diligently carried to completion. Upon
completion, any such building or use not in conformance with these regulations
may continue as regulated in section
11-14-2 of this title.
   B.   At any time within two (2) years after the effective date hereof, a
building permit may be issued or a use of land commenced in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a special use permit or site plan (other than PUD)
approved by the city commission or variance granted by the board of adjustment
prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves,
or other similar equipment for distribution to consumers of public utility and
communication services, but not including substations and towers located on or
above the surface of the ground, shall be exempt from the provisions of these
regulations.
   D.   Railroad tracks, signals, bridges, and similar facilities and equipment
located on a railroad right of way, and maintenance and repair work on such
facilities, shall be exempt from the provisions of these regulations. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Construction Of Language
11-2-2: Definition Of Terms
11-2-1: CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE:
Unless the content clearly indicates to the contrary, certain words or phrases
used herein shall have the following interpretations for the purpose of this
title:
   A.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular;
   B.   Shall is mandatory, and may is permissive; and
   C.   Where there is a reference in this title to a specific chapter,
section, or subsection that is not identified as being part of any other
document, the reference is to a chapter, section, or subsection of this title.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-2-2: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure customarily incidental
and subordinate to, and located on the same lot as, the principal building or
structure (see also section
11-5-1 of this title).
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to, and located on
the same lot as, the principal use of a building, structure, or land (see also
section
11-5-1 of this title).
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: An employee of the city of Ponca City at the level of
division head or above.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES: Those uses considered an accessory use and which are
designed for adults, and meet one or more of the following classifications and
definitions:
   Adult Amusement Or Entertainment: Amusement or entertainment which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material depicting,
describing or relating to "sexual conduct" or "specified anatomical areas", as
defined herein, including, but not limited to, topless or bottomless dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar
entertainment.
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment having as a significant portion of its
stock in trade books, film, magazines and other periodicals which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
"sexual conduct" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Mini Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with a capacity of
less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing "sexual conduct" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motel: A motel wherein material is presented, as part of the motel
services, via closed circuit television or otherwise, which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing "sexual conduct" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motion Picture Arcade: Any place at which slug operated or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled, still or motion
picture machines, projectors of other image producing devices are maintained to
show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where
the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "sexual conduct" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing "sexual conduct" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   Massage Parlor: Any place where for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body occurs as
part of or in connection with "sexual conduct" or where any person providing
such treatment, manipulation or services related thereto exposes "specified
anatomical areas".
   Sexual Conduct And Specified Anatomical Areas: Shall be defined as follows:
   A.   "Sexual conduct" includes the following:
      1.   The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      2.   Ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy;
      3.   Masturbation, and;
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A1 through A4 of this definition.
   B.   "Specified anatomical areas" includes the following:
      1.   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola;
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   Sexual Encounter Center: Any building or structure which contains, or is
used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee to engage in personal contact with, or to allow personal contact
by, employees, devices or equipment or by personnel provided by the
establishment which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron, to include,
but not to be limited to, bath houses, massage parlors, and related or similar
activities.
No part of this title will be deemed to disenfranchise any member of the
healing arts licensed by the state to perform manipulation of body parts as
part of their profession or counseling of said persons by licensed
practitioners.
AIRPORT: The Ponca City municipal airport.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the
vicinity of the airport, or any use of land near the airport, that obstructs
the airspace used by aircraft in landing or take off at the airport.
AIRPORT ZONE: A supplemental district which delineates one or more areas within
which special height restrictions are in effect to prevent airport hazards (see
also section
11-3-2 and chapter 16 of this title).
ALLEY: A minor right of way less than twenty feet (20') wide dedicated for
public use which gives a secondary means of vehicular access to the back or
side of properties otherwise abutting a street, and which may be used for
public utility purposes but is not intended for general traffic circulation.
APPEAL: A request to the board of adjustment for a review of a decision,
action, or interpretation of the building official or other administrative
officer with respect to this title.
ARCHITECTURALLY SIGNIFICANT: Those structures that have characteristics of a
type, period, or method of construction; or that represent the work of a
master; or that possess high artistic values; or that represent a significant
and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOME: A residential dwelling in which the residents of the
home render an accessory service which provides, for compensation, temporary
sleeping rooms and a breakfast meal to not more than ten (10) guests at one
time, subject to receiving a special use permit from the city of Ponca City.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The Ponca City board of adjustment (see also title 3,
chapter 1, article B of this code).
BUFFER STRIP: A tract of land required between a parking area and the property
line which shall remain unpaved and free from vehicular parking and movement
and which shall be landscaped to provide a more pleasing visual appearance of
the parking area.
BUILDABLE AREA: All of that portion of a lot, tract, or parcel of land which
remains after the minimum yard, easement, and open space requirements of this
title have been met.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, equipment,
goods, or materials of any kind.
BUILDING CODE: The international building code and amendments thereto, adopted
by the city of Ponca City.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The length of a building facade on the side of the building
facing a street.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance therefrom equal
to the depth of the front or exterior side yard required for the zoning
district in which the lot is located.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The head of the building inspection and code enforcement
division of the city of Ponca City, or authorized representative (see also
subsection 11-17-1A of this title).
BUILDING SITE: Any plat or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land under one ownership which are occupied or intended to be
occupied by one or more buildings or structures.
CARPORT: A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides.
CHILD DAYCARE: A principal use as described in subsection 11-4-2C6 of this
title, or residential accessory use as defined in Family Daycare Home of this
section (see also section
11-5-6 of this title).
CITY: The city of Ponca City, Oklahoma.
CITY CHARTER: The charter of Ponca City, which appears at the front of the city
code book.
CITY CLERK: The director of finance of the city, or authorized representative.
CITY CODE: The Ponca City code.
CITY COMMISSION: The mayor and board of commissioners of the city.
CITY ENGINEER: The head of the engineering division of the city, or authorized
representative.
CITY MANAGER: The chief administrative officer and head of the administrative
branch of the city government, or authorized representative.
CITY STAFF: Salaried employees of the department of community development or
any administrative officer of the city.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which collects traffic from local streets and
connects with minor and principal arterial streets.
COMMERCIAL CATEGORIES: Groups of uses related to provision and maintenance of
goods and services (see also subsection 11-4-2C of this title).
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: A zoning district having a symbol beginning with the
letter "C" (see also chapter 7 of this title).
COMMON AREA OR FACILITY: A portion of a development, subdivision, lot, or
structure used in common by two (2) or more owners or tenants of other portions
of such development, subdivision, lot, or structure.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: A common area which is not enclosed in a building.
CONSTRUCTION: The placement and/or assembly of utilities, streets, or a
structure in a permanent location. Land preparation and accessory structures
shall not be considered to be construction for the purpose of establishing the
date of start of construction for compliance with any time limit required by
this title. The definition of this term is modified in chapter 15 of this title
for use only in reference to the flood hazard regulations.
CONVENTIONAL DISTRICT: The zoning districts listed in section
11-3-1 of this title (see also definition of Zoning District).
CORNER LOT: A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two (2) or more streets at
their intersection, or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an
interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: The city of Ponca City department of
planning and community development.
DETACHED EMERGENCY SHELTER: An accessory building not attached to or part of
another building, and which is designed and intended for temporary human
habitation during periods of violent storms or nuclear attack (see also
subsection 11-5-1B10 of this title).
DETACHED SOLAR COLLECTOR: An exterior accessory device not attached to or part
of a building, and which is specifically designed and intended to provide a net
energy gain by transferring, storing, or converting solar radiation for the
purpose of heating or electricity generation (see also subsection 11-5-1B11 of
this title).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, excavation, paving, or drilling operations.
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY: A severe chronic disability of a person which:
   A.   Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination of
mental and physical impairments, such as mental retardation, cerebral palsy, or
autism;
   B.   Is manifested before the person attains twenty two (22) years of age;
   C.   Is likely to continue indefinitely;
   D.   Results in substantial functional limitations in three (3) or more of
the following areas of major life activity:
      1.   Self-care;
      2.   Learning;
      3.   Receptive and expressive language;
      4.   Mobility;
      5.   Self-direction;
      6.   Capacity for independent living;
      7.   Economic self-sufficiency; and
   E.   Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special,
interdisciplinary, or generic care, treatment, or other services which are of
lifelong or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.
DEVELOPMENTALLY OR PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON: A person with a developmental or
physical disability.
DILAPIDATED STRUCTURES: Structures that do not provide safe and adequate
shelter. A dilapidated structure has one or more critical defects as defined
below, or has a combination of other property maintenance code violations in
sufficient number to require extensive repair or rebuilding, or is of
inadequate original construction. Examples of critical defects, which result
from continued neglect or indicate serious damage to the structure, include
holes, open cracks, or missing materials over a large area of the floors,
walls, roof, or other parts of the structure which cause inadequate protection
from the elements, and serious damage by storm or fire. Inadequate original
construction includes structures built of makeshift materials and inadequately
converted cellars, sheds or garages not originally intended for their present
use. Structures in dilapidated condition are not usually worth repairing.
DISTRICT: A zoning district or supplemental district, depending on the context.
DISTRICT REGULATIONS: The provisions of this title contained in chapters 6, 7,
8 and 9 of this title.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used as living quarters for
one or more families.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms connected together but physically separated
from any other dwelling units in the same dwelling, and which are designed,
occupied, or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters with cooking,
sleeping, and sanitary facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the
exclusive use of a single family maintaining a household.
EARTH BERM: A mound or bank of soil extending above the natural grade at a
slope of twenty five percent (25%) or more, and which is constructed as an
architectural feature, as an environmental buffer, or for drainage control (see
also subsection 11-14-1B4 of this title).
EARTH-INTEGRATED BUILDING: A building having at least fifty percent (50%) of
the exterior envelope in direct contact with, or covered by, soil or subsurface
mineral substances (see also subsection 11-14-1B4 of this title).
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to the public, corporation, or other persons for the use of land for specific
purposes.
ENCLOSED PARKING: Off street vehicle parking spaces located inside a garage or
other building or portion thereof having at least fifty percent (50%) of the
exterior facade on all sides constructed of opaque materials.
EXTERIOR SIDE YARD: On a corner lot, the side yard abutting a street (see also
definition of Side Yard).
FACILITY: A structure or equipment that is built, installed, or established to
serve a particular purpose.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons (excluding domestic servants) not all so
related, occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a group quarters or
an institutional residence.
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A licensed or approved family home that provides care and
protection for seven (7) or fewer children for part of the twenty four (24)
hour day. The term "daycare home" shall not include informal arrangements which
parents make independently with neighbors, friends, and others, caretakers in
the child's own home, and shall not include nursery schools, kindergartens, or
other facilities of which the purpose is primarily educational, recreational,
or medical treatment.
FAMILY HOME: A dwelling unit occupied by a family.
FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A combined site plan/preliminary subdivision plat
required for approval by the planning commission and city commission prior to
construction of a planned development. It may be a site plan only, where no
subdivision action is required or proposed (see also chapter 10 of this title).
FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE: Any building occupied and maintained by a social
association of college students and containing group living quarters where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals and/or lodging
are provided exclusively for members of the organization and their guests.
FRONT LOT LINE: The property line separating the front yard of a lot from an
abutting street.
FRONT YARD: A yard extending across a lot between the side lot lines, and
measured as the minimum horizontal distance between a front lot line and the
nearest portion of the principal building. On corner lots, the front yard shall
be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On through lots, both yards abutting a street shall each be
considered a front yard (see also definitions of Through Lot and Yard).
GARAGE: A deck, building, or other structure, or part thereof, used or intended
to provide enclosed parking or storage spaces for vehicles.
GOOD REPAIR: A condition which not only meets minimum standards of health and
safety, but which also guarantees conditioned attractiveness, continued
structural soundness and continued usefulness.
GROSS DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per total area of land, measured as
dwelling units per acre.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating two (2) buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading spaces for motor vehicles, or any space where the floor
to ceiling height is less than six feet (6').
GROSS LEASABLE AREA: The total floor area for which tenants pay rent and which
is designated for the tenants occupancy and exclusive use.
HAZARD AREA: An area of the city which is subject to special development
regulations due to its location with regard to the airport and/or the
floodplain (see also section
11-3-2 of this title).
HEIGHT: Except as otherwise noted in subsection
11-14-1D1 of this title, the vertical distance from the average elevation of
that portion of the lot covered by a building or other structure to the highest
point of the building or structure, but not including all or portions of
attached nonhabitable structures exempted by subsection
11-14-1D2 of this title.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation activity that occurs within structures or on
property which has residential use as the primary land use, and where the
occupation is clearly incidental to the residential use.
ILLEGALLY NONCONFORMING: A lot, structure, or use which violates in some manner
or degree a regulation existing at the time that the lot, structure, or use is
established.
INDUSTRIAL CATEGORIES: Groups of uses related to the manufacturing, processing,
distribution, and storage of products and materials (see also subsection
11-4-2D of this title).
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: A zoning district having a symbol beginning with the
letter "I" (see also chapter 8 of this title).
INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORIES: Groups of uses related to governmental,
institutional, transportation, utility, and other public facilities and
services (see also subsection
11-4-2E of this title).
INTENSELY LIGHTED SIGN: A sign utilizing visible bare bulb illumination in
excess of twenty five (25) watts per bulb.
INTENSITY: The degree of nuisance associated with one or more uses (e.g.,
noise, traffic, lighting, size of structures, etc.) such that greater degrees
of nuisance are considered higher intensity. For residential uses, intensity
also means the square feet of lot area per dwelling unit (see also definitions
of Good Repair and Net Density in this section).
INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner lot.
INTERIOR SIDE YARD: A yard extending between the front lot line and rear lot
line, and measured as the minimum distance between a side lot line in common
with another lot, and the nearest portion of the principal building (see also
definition of Yard).
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, more than six (6)
months of age, are kept.
LAND USE: A description of how land is actually occupied or utilized.
LANDSCAPING: The addition of lawns, trees, plants, and other natural and
decorative features to land.
LAWFULLY OR LEGALLY NONCONFORMING: An existing lot, structure, or use which was
in conformance with the regulations which were in effect at the time it was
established, but in some manner or degree does not conform with different
regulations which have been subsequently applied to the lot, structure, or use.
Lawful nonconformities are considered "grandfathered" unless otherwise limited
by specific provisions of this title.
LOCAL STREET: A street which is designed to provide direct vehicular access to
abutting property and to discourage through traffic.
LODGING OR BOARDING HOUSE: A building where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, sleeping and living quarters, and/or meals
(but not individual cooking facilities) are provided to three (3) or more, but
not exceeding forty (40) persons. Such facilities which exceed the forty (40)
person limit shall be considered as a hotel under the terms of this title.
LOT: Any parcel or plot of land, which may consist of one or more lots of
record, and which is occupied or intended to be occupied by one or more
principal buildings and accessory buildings, including such open spaces as
required by this title, and having its principal frontage on a public street or
a private street in a planned development.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area bounded by the lot lines of a lot.
LOT COVERAGE: The percentage of the lot area which is occupied by buildings.
LOT FRONTAGE: The length of the front lot line.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot, or from a public or private street or any other public space.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which exists as shown on a subdivision plat recorded in
the Office of the Kay County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot located
at the building setback line of the required front yard, and measured as a
straight line perpendicular to a line connecting the midpoints of the front lot
line and rear lot line.
LOW INCOME FAMILIES: Families with incomes that do not exceed eighty percent
(80%) of the median income of the area as determined by HUD, with adjustments
for family size.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed or manufactured off site as a
dwelling and delivered in one or more components to the site for installation
or assembly, and is set on a continuous, permanent foundation, transportation
features removed. A manufactured home which complies with the above and the
structural requirements of the International Residential Code may be permitted
as a special exception by the Board of Adjustment, in accordance with
subsection
11-17-7A6 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended primarily
for sale of lots for permanent occupancy by manufactured homes.
MASTER PLAN: The Ponca City master plan.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION: An establishment licensed under title 63,
section 422 of the Oklahoma Statutes whereby the growing of medical marijuana
is conducted on the premises and then sold to a licensed retailer or processor.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: An establishment licensed under title 63, section
421 of the Oklahoma Statutes whereby the retail sale of medical marijuana is
conducted on the premises.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSOR: An establishment licensed under title 63, section
423 of the Oklahoma Statutes, whereby marijuana plants are processed (packaged)
into concentrates, edibles, and other forms for consumption.
MINOR ARTERIAL: A street which augments and interconnects the principal
arterial system, and which collects and distributes traffic to and from
collector streets.
MINOR IMPROVEMENT: Changes or additions to an existing building, structure, or
site not involving structural alteration, enlarged floor area, or increased
occupancy, and not substantially affecting the existing use or exterior
appearance.
MINOR STRUCTURE: Any nonhabitable structure having dimensions not greater than
ten feet by ten feet by ten feet (10' x 10' x 10'), and which is not
permanently affixed to the ground.
MOBILE HOME: A principal residential use described in subsection 11-4-2B3 of
this title.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Land or property that is used or intended to be used or
rented for temporary occupancy by mobile homes, including all necessary
utilities, streets, and other common amenities.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended primarily for sale
of lots for permanent occupancy by mobile homes.
NET DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of land area, excluding
public rights of way and private streets used for general circulation.
NET FLOOR AREA: The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding
stairwells and elevator shafts, mechanical equipment rooms, incidental storage
areas, interior vehicle parking or loading, and basement areas not used or
intended to be used for human habitation or service to the public.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot of record which does not meet the applicable minimum
lot area or lot width requirements of the district in which it is located. A
nonconforming lot is lawful if it is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have
been owned separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time
when the creation of a lot of such size and/or width at such location would not
have been prohibited by any ordinance, and has remained in separate and
individual ownership from adjoining tracts of land continuously during the
entire time that the creation of such lot has been prohibited by ordinance (see
also section
11-14-2 of this title).
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure which does not meet the applicable
setback, lot coverage, or height requirements of the district in which it is
located (see also section
11-14-2 of this title).
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of a structure or land which is not permitted in the
district in which it is located (see also section
11-14-2 of this title).
OFF STREET LOADING: Space located for pick up and delivery of people or bulk
materials in an area not within a dedicated right of way, which is scaled for
the delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when
all required off street parking spaces are filled (see also chapter 13 of this
title).
OFF STREET PARKING: A temporary storage area for one or more vehicles that is
directly accessible to a driveway, aisle, alley, or street, and which is not
located on a dedicated right of way (see also chapter 13 of this title).
OPEN SPACE: A parcel or area of land which is not enclosed in a building, and
which is dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment, or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
neighboring such open space.
PARKING AREA: Off street parking spaces, together with required associated
driveways and landscaping.
PARKLET: A platform structure which occupies one or more on-street parking
spaces that extends from the edge of the sidewalk and provides space for
seating, tables and other amenities for patrons of the adjacent eating and/or
drinking establishment.
PEDESTRIAN FLOOR AREA: The total floor area within an enclosed building
intended for use by the public.
PERMITTED USE: A use contained in a use category that is indicated with an "X"
in tables 11-6-2.1, 11-7-2.1, 11-8-2.1 and 11-9-2.1 of this title as a use
permitted by right in a zoning district (see also definition of Use Permitted
By Right).
PERSON: An association, company, corporation, firm, or organization, as well as
an individual, unless the context indicates that the term refers only to an
individual. The term includes an assignee, receiver, trustee, or similar
authorized representative of any of the named entities.
PHYSICAL DISABILITY: A condition which causes the restricted use of extremities
by an individual or which limits other bodily functions of an individual and
which requires the specialized training, habilitation, or rehabilitation
services provided by a group home.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A district that allows flexibility in the application
of conventional district regulations, and is subject to special review
procedures (see also chapter 10 of this title).
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Ponca City planning commission.
PLANNING STAFF: The employees of the planning division in the department of
planning and community development.
PLAZA: An open space accessible to the public at all times which is not at a
point more than five feet (5') above nor more than twelve feet (12') below the
curb level of the nearest adjoining street, and which is unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky except for arbors, awnings, fountains, flagpoles, light
fixtures, and furniture.
PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL: A street which is a high traffic volume corridor with
restricted parking, whereby the concept of service to abutting land is
subordinate to accommodating traffic movements between major centers of
activity.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main or primary purpose for which a building, other
structure and/or lot is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it may be
used, occupied, or maintained.
PRIVATE STREET OR DRIVE: A street in a common area of a mobile home park,
planned development, or other development which serves more than one lot or
facility, and which is not in a dedicated public right of way.
PROPERTY LINE: Same as lot line (see also definition of Lot Line).
PUBLIC: Owned or operated by an agency of government.
PUBLIC STREET: A right of way at least forty feet (40') wide which is dedicated
to the public for vehicular traffic.
REAR LOT LINE: The property line which is on the opposite end of a lot from the
front lot line, and which separates the rear yard of the lot from an abutting
lot.
REAR YARD: A yard extending across a lot between the side lot lines, and
measured as the minimum horizontal distance between a rear lot line and the
nearest portion of the principal building. The rear yard shall in all cases be
at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard (see also definition of
Yard).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicular portable structure used as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation use, and which is either self-
propelled or built on a chassis that is drawn by a motor vehicle. This term
shall include, but is not limited to, those vehicles commonly known and
referred to as travel trailers, campers, trailers, boats, ATVs, and motor homes
(see also subsection 11-5-1B18 of this title).
REDEVELOPMENT: The reconstruction, alteration, or replacement of an existing
facility or development.
REMODEL: Structural and/or aesthetic alteration, but not enlargement, of a
building.
RESIDENTIAL CARE/REHABILITATIVE CENTERS: Includes community residential
facilities serving persons in drug, alcohol, juvenile, child, parole, family
shelters, battered spouse shelters, halfway houses, and other programs of
treatment, care, supervision, or rehabilitation in a residential setting; may
be allowed in residential and commercial districts upon obtaining a special use
permit (see also subsection 11-5-6D of this title).
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORIES: Groups of uses related to nontransient living
accommodations (see also subsection
11-4-2B of this title).
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: A zoning district having a symbol beginning with the
letter "R" (see also chapter 6 of this title).
RESOURCE CATEGORIES: Groups of uses related to agriculture and oil, gas, and
mineral extraction (see also subsection
11-4-2A of this title).
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land, the ownership and/or maintenance of which is
conveyed by dedication, prescription, or condemnation for railroad, utility,
and/or public roadway purposes.
SIC NUMBER: A code from the standard industrial classification manual which
identifies a specific land use or group of land uses (see also section
11-3-4 of this title).
SIDEWALK CAFÉ: The use of a portion of a public sidewalk normally reserved for
pedestrian travel as a place for patrons of an eating or drinking establishment
on the adjacent lot to sit and consume their food and beverages.
SATELLITE TV DISH ANTENNA: A device commonly parabolic in shape, mounted at a
fixed point on the ground for the purpose of receiving television signals
transmitted via satellite communications facilities, and serving the same or
similar function as the common television antenna (see also subsection
11-5-1B12 of this title).
SCREENING: A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting lot,
structure, or use from another by fencing, walls, earth berms, or densely
planted vegetation (see also section
11-14-3 of this title).
SEALED SURFACE PAVEMENT: The minimum paving standard for all private drives and
off street parking and loading areas for the purpose of controlling mud, dust,
and erosion.
SETBACK: The distance between a property line and the building or other
applicable structure.
SETBACK LINE: The line which is the innermost boundary of a minimum required
yard, and which also defines a boundary of the maximum buildable area.
SIDE LOT LINE: Any property line other than a front or rear lot line.
SIDE YARD: A yard extending across a lot between the front and rear lot lines,
and measured as the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the
nearest portion of the principal building (see also definition of Yard).
SIDEWALK CAFE: The use of a portion of a public right of way normally reserved
for pedestrian use as a place for patrons of an eating establishment on the
adjacent lot to sit and consume their food and/or drink.
SIGN: A surface, fabric, device, or display described and regulated in chapter
12 of this title.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: An area described and regulated in subsection
11-14-1B5 of this title at the intersection of two (2) streets, or a street and
private driveway, which must remain clear of obstacles in order to facilitate
vehicular safety.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION: An exception to, or exemption from, certain provisions of
this title which are specifically identified in the text as being eligible for
such exception to be granted by the board of adjustment for a specific lot (see
also section
11-17-7 of this title).
SPECIAL USE: A land use which is subject to special review and approval
procedures prior to establishment in a particular zoning district, and which is
indicated with an "S" in tables 11-6-2.1, 11-7-2.1, 11-8-2.1 and 11-9-2.1 of
this title (see also section
11-17-4 of this title).
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: Written documentation of city commission approval of a
special use (see also section
11-17-4 of this title).
STREET: Any thoroughfare right of way, other than an alley, which provides the
principal vehicular access to abutting properties.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in either the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders, or in the
dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURALLY SOUND: Any structure not considered dilapidated (see also
definition of Dilapidated Structures).
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
STUDIO APARTMENT: A dwelling unit consisting of not more than one habitable
room together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary facilities.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS: Governing the division of land ownership, and the
design and implementation of certain public improvements located thereon (see
also title 12 of this code).
SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES: Substandard structures include those which have one or
more violations of the property maintenance code; inadequate sanitation,
structural hazards, faulty weather protection, hazardous wiring, plumbing, or
mechanical equipment, improper occupancy, etc., sagging roof ridge lines,
cracked, bulging, or sagging foundations, doors and windows out of plumb, some
missing or rotted roofing and siding material, tilting walls or chimney,
insufficient window screening, broken glass, inadequate guttering and
downspouts, improper grading around foundations, rotted or missing porch
structural members, etc., are indications of substandard structures. These
structures are usually worth repairing to bring them up to standard conditions.
SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT: An area listed in section
11-3-2 of this title which may consist of one or more, or portions of,
underlying conventional zoning districts, and within which certain special
development regulations take precedence over the normal regulations of the
conventional district wherever they may conflict.
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE (TRC): A committee composed chiefly of city
personnel, established by the city of Ponca City which has the responsibility
of review development proposals and making recommendations and attaching
conditions to such proposals. The TRC deals with development issues such as:
parks, streets, utilities, access, electricity, parking areas, and similar
issues.
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE: A structure without any foundation or footings, and which
is removed when the designated time period, activity, or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased (see also section
11-5-3 of this title).
TEMPORARY USE: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period (see also section
11-5-3 of this title).
THROUGH LOT: A lot which fronts upon two (2) parallel streets, or which fronts
upon two (2) streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
UNENCLOSED PARKING: Off street vehicle parking spaces located outside of any
building or structure, or within a structure or portion thereof having less
than fifty percent (50%) of the exterior facade on all sides constructed of
opaque materials.
USE: Same as land use (see also definition of Land Use).
USE CATEGORY: The title assigned to a group of specific uses having similar
characteristics and described in general in chapter 4 of this title, and are
used in tables 11-6-2.1, 11-7-2.1, 11-8-2.1 and 11-9-2.1 of this title for the
purpose of determining in which districts the various land uses are permitted.
USE CONDITION: A requirement imposed by the City Commission as a condition of
approval of a site plan or special use, or by the Board of Adjustment in
granting a special exception or variance.
USE PERMITTED BY RIGHT: A use allowed in a zoning district without any special
review and approval procedures, but subject to any restrictions or use
standards which are applicable to that use and zoning district.
USE STANDARD: A standard applied to a use by chapter 5 of this title, or other
provisions of this title or this Code.
VARIANCE: A modification in a provision of this title with respect to a
specific lot by the Board of Adjustment (see also section
11-17-8 of this title).
VISUAL BARRIER: Screening which is required for certain uses or certain lots by
section
11-14-3 of this title (see also definition of screening).
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): The system by which wind energy is
converted to electricity using a wind turbine, tower, support system, blades,
and associated control and conversion electronics. This definition includes
"mini WECSs" which have a rated capacity of less than ten kilowatts (10 kW) and
otherwise comply with the bulk standards specified in subsection
11-5-1D of this title.
YARD: An open space that lies between a building and adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided
in subsection
11-14-1B of this title.
ZONING DISTRICT: A specifically delineated area or district listed in section
11-3-1 of this title, within which regulations and requirements uniformly
govern the use, placement, spacing, and size of land, buildings, and other
structures.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps which are a part of the zoning ordinance, and
delineate the boundaries of zoning districts and supplemental districts.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance, title 11 of this Code, together with
attached or referenced exhibits. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 5951, 7-9-
2001; 2003 Code; Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009; Ord. 6181, 9-9-2013; Ord. 6199, 2-9-
2015; Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018; Ord. 6333, 8-28-2023; Ord. 6334, 8-28-2023)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
11-3-2: Special Overlay Districts And Supplemental Districts
11-3-3: District Boundaries
11-3-4: Use Classification
11-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is arranged in zoning districts, as shown on the current zoning map
posted in department of planning and community development and filed with the
city clerk. The map, and all explanatory material thereon, is hereby made a
part of this title.
The zoning districts, the descriptions of which are set forth in sections
11-6-1,
11-7-1,
11-8-1,
11-9-1 and
11-10-1 of this title, shall be designated as follows, and may be referred to
by full name or by symbol only:
Symbol     Name Of District
Symbol     Name Of District
R-1    Single-family dwelling district
R-2    Two-family dwelling district
R-2M   Medium density dwelling district
R-3    Multi-family dwelling district
RMHP   Mobile home park dwelling district
RMHS   Mobile home subdivision dwelling district
C-1    Local commercial district
C-2    General commercial district
CBD    Central business district
IP     Industrial park district
I-1    Light industrial district
I-2    Moderate industrial district
I-3    Heavy industrial district
A      Agricultural district
RA     Rural acreage dwelling district
P      Public district
PUD    Planned unit development
 
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-3-2: SPECIAL OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   The following areas are established as special "overlay" districts
pursuant to the regulations set forth in chapter 11, "Special Districts", and
chapter 16, "Airport Hazard Regulations" of this title:
 
Symbol     Name Of District
HMC    Hospital-medical complex district ("overlay" district)
HP     Historic preservation district ("overlay" district)
AZ     Airport hazard district ("overlay" district)
 
   B.   Said regulations shall supersede any controlling provisions of this
title where applicable. (Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
11-3-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In the event that uncertainties exist with respect to the intended boundaries
of the various districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
   A.   Where the designation of a boundary line on the zoning map coincides
with the location of a street or alley, the centerline of such street or alley
shall be construed to be the boundary of such district;
   B.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets or alleys, but do coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of such district; and
   C.   Where the boundary line of a zoning district does not coincide with the
location of streets, alleys, or lot lines, the district boundaries shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning map except as may
otherwise be determined, as a special exception, by the board of adjustment
that a zoning district delineated by such boundary line dividing a single lot,
tract, or parcel of land under one ownership may be extended to the nearest
property line. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-3-4: USE CLASSIFICATION:
The identification and classification of all principal uses of land or
buildings permitted in the various zoning districts are grouped into use
categories, which are described in chapter 4 of this title and listed for each
zoning district in sections
11-6-2,
11-7-2,
11-8-2, and
11-9-2 of this title. The specific uses included in each use category are
listed in tables entitled "Uses Permitted" according to the corresponding
standard industrial classification (SIC) numbers from the "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual (1972)", prepared by the statistical policy division of
the office of management and budget, executive office of the president, and
available from the superintendent of documents, U.S. government printing
office. An SIC number listed and followed by an asterisk is not contained in
the SIC manual but is established only for this title. Some SIC numbers have
been divided for the purpose of establishing special uses for certain
categories and shall be interpreted as such. A use specifically listed in a use
category shall not by interpretation be included as a principal use within any
other category. It shall be the duty of the building official to classify any
use not specifically listed for the purpose of designating the zoning districts
in which such use may be located. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 4
USE CATEGORIES
SECTION:
11-4-1: Establishment
11-4-2: Description
11-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
All principal uses of land or buildings permitted in the various zoning
districts are listed in sections
11-6-2,
11-7-2,
11-8-2, and
11-9-2 of this title. For the purpose of functional classification, and to
facilitate convenient reference, individual uses are grouped into categories
whereby the uses are related by having similar functions, products, or
performances which provide a basis for their systematic assignment to specific
zoning districts in accordance with criteria directly relevant to the health,
safety, and public welfare of the citizens of Ponca City. The use categories,
which are further grouped into five (5) general land use classifications, are
established by the criteria described in section
11-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-4-2: DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Resource Categories: These uses are the initial stages of creating or
obtaining raw materials from the earth's natural resources for further
processing and/or distribution.
      1.   Restricted Horticulture: Outdoor cultivation of floricultural
specialties and plant nursery products intended for ornamental or landscaping
purposes on a wholesale basis, and such that no building or structure is
maintained on the premises.
      2.   General Horticulture: Cultivation of horticultural and floricultural
specialties intended for ornamental, landscaping, or food purposes on a
wholesale basis and requiring a building or structure on the premises.
      3.   Crop Production: Premises devoted to the cultivation, primarily for
sale rather than home consumption, of agricultural products such as grain,
forage, vegetables, fruit, and nuts. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      4.   Medical Marijuana Cultivation: Premises devoted to the cultivation
of medical marijuana in accordance with title 63, section 422 of the Oklahoma
Statutes. (Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
      5.   Livestock Production: Premises where large animal livestock,
excluding swine, are fed or kept for commercial purposes other than as a
stockyard or feedlot.
      6.   Animal Specialties: Premises devoted primarily to poultry, dairy,
and other operations for commercial production of small animal livestock and
their byproducts, excluding the keeping of such animals for fur bearing
purposes.
      7.   On Premises Agricultural Processing: Packing or processing of crops
grown on the premises, including, picking, cutting, sorting, and boxing; but
not including canning, reduction, or similar activity.
      8.   Off Premises Agricultural Processing: Packing or processing of crops
and their byproducts raised off the premises, including cutting, sorting, and
boxing; but not including canning, reduction, or similar activity.
      9.   Crude Petroleum And Natural Gas Extraction: Premises devoted
primarily to subsurface exploration and extraction of oil and gas, including
necessary aboveground facilities, but not including buildings.
      10.   Mineral And Raw Material Mining: Premises devoted primarily to
surface or subsurface mining, excavation, or extraction of nonmetallic
minerals, except fuels, with essential on site processing of such products.
      11.   Disposal Wells: Any well drilled or actually used for injection of
salt water or other substances into the earth at a point other or different
than the point of extraction or production, including necessary facilities, but
not including buildings. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
   B.   Residential Categories: These uses include the occupancy of living
accommodations on a nontransient basis, and shall specifically exclude those
providing twenty four (24) hour hospital care, and those providing forced
residence such as detention and correction facilities.
      1.   Detached Conventional Single-Family: One dwelling unit conforming to
the normal setback requirements that is a freestanding and structurally
separated building which is located on a lot or building site that is
unoccupied by any other dwelling unit or principal structure.
      2.   Zero Lot-Line Single-Family: One dwelling unit that is a
freestanding and structurally separated building which is located on a lot or
building site that is unoccupied by any other dwelling unit or principal
structure, and which is located such that one wall has approximately no setback
along a side property boundary.
      3.   Mobile Home: A manufactured, detached structure not meeting the one-
and two-family structure requirements of the Building Code, but which is
originally designed, constructed, and used for long-term occupancy as a
complete single-family dwelling, is mounted on a permanent chassis with wheels
attached thereto, and which is transportable in one or more sections at least
ten feet in width and thirty two feet in length (10' x 32').
      4.   Manufactured Home: A manufactured structure bearing a seal verifying
it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards adopted July 13, 1994 (aka HUD Building Codes), and is
originally designed, constructed, and used for long term occupancy as a
complete single-family dwelling, containing two (2) or more sections of at
least ten feet in width and thirty two feet in length (10' x 32'), mounted on a
permanent chassis, set up on a continuous, permanent foundation and
transportable features removed. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      5.   Modular Home: A manufactured structure fabricated off site meeting
the one- and two-family structure requirements of the International Building
Codes; designed, constructed, and used for long term occupancy as a complete
dwelling unit(s), containing two (2) or more sections of at least ten feet in
width and thirty two feet in length (10' x 32'), mounted on a permanent
chassis, set up on a continuous, permanent foundation, transportable features
removed. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
      6.   Semi-Detached Single-Family: One dwelling unit which is located on a
lot or building site that is unoccupied by any other dwelling unit or principal
structure, but which is attached to one other single-family dwelling unit on a
separate lot by a common vertical wall along their mutual property boundary.
      7.   Group Homes: Public, quasi-public, or private community based
residential facilities for no more than six (6) developmentally or physically
disabled persons requiring specialized living arrangements under the care and
supervision of a responsible adult and which is licensed by the State
Department of Health, or homes for the deaf or blind, mentally handicapped,
physically handicapped.
      8.   Residential Care/Rehabilitation Centers: Includes community
residential facilities serving persons in drug, alcohol, juvenile, child,
parole, and other programs of treatment, care, supervision, or rehabilitation
in a residential setting.
      9.   Two-Family: A building (duplex) located on a lot or building site
that is unoccupied by any other principal structure, and which provides
independent living facilities for occupancy by two (2) families such that the
two (2) dwelling units are placed adjacent to one another with structural parts
touching.
      10.   General Multiple-Family: Three (3) or more dwelling units
(apartments) contained within one building that is freestanding and
structurally separated from any other building or group of dwelling units.
      11.   Condominium: A form of real estate ownership whereby a building, or
group of buildings, in a residential development contain dwelling units that
are owned individually, while the exterior structure, common areas and
facilities, and underlying land are owned and maintained collectively by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
      12.   Townhouse: A one-family dwelling unit in a row of at least three
(3) such units whereby each unit is located on a separate lot platted for
individual ownership, each unit has its own access to the outside, no unit is
located over another unit, each unit is separated from any other unit by one or
more common fire resistant walls along their mutual property boundary, and
where certain common areas and facilities not on the private lots may be owned
and maintained collectively by all the owners on a proportional, undivided
basis.
      13.   Group Quarters: A dwelling that houses unrelated individuals not
constituting a family on a nontransient basis such that there may be separate
sleeping and bathrooms, but other living facilities are shared as a single
housekeeping unit.
      14.   Limited Mixed Use: One or more dwelling units located on the second
floor or above of a building having two (2) or more stories in which the first
floor is occupied entirely by a commercial use, and where such commercial use
is permitted in the zoning district.
   C.   Commercial Categories: These uses include the distribution, sale,
rental, or repair of goods, as well as the provision of most professional,
business, and consumer services.
      1.   Administrative And Professional Offices: Offices of firms or
organizations providing professional, executive, or administrative services of
a specialized nature such as law offices, real estate offices, architectural
and engineering offices, insurance offices, and corporate offices, etc.
      2.   Adult Entertainment Uses: Those uses which are designed for adults,
including, but not limited to: adult amusement or entertainment; adult
bookstore; adult mini motion picture theater; adult motel; adult motion picture
arcade; adult motion picture theater; massage parlor; and sexual encounter
center, as defined under the term "adult entertainment uses" in section
11-2-2 of this title.
      3.   Research Services: Administrative offices with research or testing
facilities of a technical or scientific nature located within a completely
enclosed building, and not involving product manufacturing.
      4.   Business Support Services: Establishments not elsewhere specifically
classified which are primarily engaged in the provision of services of a
clerical, employment, protective, financial, technical, or minor processing
nature to other businesses, rather than to individuals, and where there is no
storage of goods or equipment other than as samples or as necessary for daily
operation.
      5.   Convenience Sales And Personal Services: Establishments primarily
engaged in the provision of frequently needed, day to day retail commercial
goods and services whereby such uses are designed and intended to serve a
limited local market, be within short walking or short driving distance of a
residential area, and which do not create substantially increased traffic,
noise, or such other impacts considered incompatible with residential uses.
      6.   Child Daycare Center: A licensed or approved facility which provides
care and protection of eight (8) or more children for a part of the twenty four
(24) hour day. The term "daycare center" shall not include informal
arrangements which parents make independently with neighbors, friends, and
others, caretakers in the child's own home, and shall not include nursery
schools, kindergartens, or other facilities of which the purpose is primarily
educational, recreational, or medical treatment.
      7.   Restricted Medical Services: Personal health services including
prevention, diagnosis, and treatment or rehabilitation services provided by
physicians, dentists, nurses, and other health personnel, including incidental
sales, but not including overnight care.
      8.   General Medical Services And Sales: Facilities for outpatient care
and for the rental or sale of prescription drugs, medical supplies, and other
medical related items. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      9.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary: A retail establishment licensed under
title 63, section 421 of the Oklahoma Statutes whereby the retail sale of
medical marijuana is conducted on the premises. (Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
      10.   Restricted Funeral And Interment Services: Undertaking services
such as funeral homes and mortuaries that prepare the dead for burial, and
arrange and manage funerals, including crematory services within the same
structure.
      11.   General Funeral And Interment Services: Interring facilities, such
as cemeteries, involving the permanent disposition of human bodies, and which
may include on site structures for such accessory uses as columbariums,
crematoriums, funeral homes, and mausoleums.
      12.   Laundry Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the provision
of commercial laundering, dry cleaning, dyeing, and linen supply services other
than those included in "convenience sales and personal services".
      13.   Product Repair Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the
repair or cleaning of personal items and household goods, whereby all
activities and storage are maintained entirely within an enclosed building.
      14.   Restricted Consumer Services: Businesses not elsewhere specifically
classified providing informational, instructional, personal improvement, or
other similar services which may be located in an office type building.
      15.   General Consumer Services: Establishments, not elsewhere
specifically classified, whose primary function is the provision of services,
as opposed to the sale of products, to customers or clients whereby all
activity, except off-site, takes place within a completely enclosed building,
but such uses have one or more of the following characteristics: high customer
volume, hand carried parcel delivery or mailing facilities, overnight parking
of service or delivery vehicles, or sale of nonmercantile items such as postage
stamps or public event tickets.
      16.   Retail Food And Beverage Sales: Businesses such as grocery stores
and delicatessens that are primarily engaged in the sale of food and
nonalcoholic beverages for off premises consumption.
      17.   Retail Alcoholic Beverage Sales: Establishments such as package
liquor stores that are primarily engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages for
home consumption.
      18.   Restricted Eating Establishments: Coffee shops, cafeterias, and
restaurants not having drive up windows, engaged primarily in the sale of
prepared food and nonintoxicating beverages to customers, and where indoor
dining facilities are provided on the premises.
      19.   Eating Establishments Permitting Alcoholic Beverages: Businesses
where customers are seated and served, and which permit on-premises consumption
of beverages containing more than 3.2 percent alcohol by volume as an
incidental activity to a restaurant operation.
      20.   Drinking Establishments: Taverns or private clubs with minimal or
no kitchen or facilities for serving food, and which are primarily engaged in
the sale, mixing, or dispensing of beverages containing more than 3.2 percent
alcohol by volume for consumption on the premises.
      21.   In Vehicle Sales And Services: All uses where, as a principal use,
sales or service transactions occur through the customer's vehicle window while
the customer remains inside the vehicle. The standards described in subsection
11-5-1B27 of this title regarding drive up windows as accessory uses shall
apply to this use category.
      22.   Specialty Retail Sales: Commercial businesses, other than those
included in "convenience sales and service", specializing in the retail sale or
rental of a limited line of merchandise to the general public for personal or
household use, and where all sales and storage functions are contained within
an enclosed building.
      23.   General Merchandise Sales: Department stores, variety stores, and
discount stores offering a large stock of general goods and merchandise for
retail sale to the general public for personal or household use.
      24.   Indoor Used Merchandise Sales: Establishments not elsewhere
specifically classified whose primary function is the sale or rental of used
goods or merchandise, both retail and wholesale, and rendering of services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
      25.   Outdoor Sales: Commercial businesses or facilities, not elsewhere
classified, where the principal use involves the display, exchange, barter, or
sale of new or used goods or perishable produce primarily outside of enclosed
buildings on a permanent basis.
      26.   Home Improvement Sales And Services: Establishments specializing in
retail sales and services related to the provision of building supplies,
lumber, hardware, interior decorating materials, or other home improvements.
      27.   Construction Sales And Services: Establishments primarily engaged
in building construction and related special trades, including incidental
storage on lots other than construction sites, and retail or wholesale trade of
materials and equipment used in the construction of buildings or other
structures, but excluding uses specifically included in the heavy vehicle, or
wholesale storage and distribution, categories.
      28.   General Maintenance Services: Establishments such as janitorial
services, exterminators, vending machine sales and services, and landscaping
and gardening services, which are engaged primarily in the delivery of
equipment, supplies, and services to off site locations for the maintenance of
household or business operations.
      29.   Oil And Gas Field Services: Businesses providing oil and gas
exploration and extraction services and supplies, and requiring outside storage
or parking of heavy equipment and related vehicles.
      30.   Agricultural Supplies And Services: Businesses such as tree service
firms, crop dusting supply stores, and feed, seed, fertilizer, or pesticide
stores, which are primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale trade of
agriculturally related products and related services, with any incidental
storage on property other than where the service is rendered.
      31.   Low Impact Animal Services: Commercial and professional businesses
such as pet grooming shops and small animal veterinary clinics where all
activities and facilities are contained within a completely enclosed building.
      32.   High Impact Animal Services: Kennel, training, livestock, and
veterinary services for large or small animals, and which require incidental
outdoor facilities.
      33.   Light Vehicle Sales And Rentals: Sale or rental from the premises
of more than two (2) motorcycles, automobiles, light trucks up to eleven
thousand (11,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight, and small trailers or delivery
vehicles, including incidental maintenance and repair facilities which are a
part of the agency.
      34.   Moderate Vehicle Sales And Rentals: Sale or rental from the
premises of light trucks up to twenty four thousand (24,000) pounds' gross
vehicle weight, recreational vehicles, utility trailers, boats, or mobile
homes, including incidental maintenance and repair facilities.
      35.   Heavy Vehicle Sales And Rentals: Sale or rental from the premises
of heavy farm or construction equipment, trucks over twenty four thousand
(24,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight, buses, or similar heavy mobile
equipment, including incidental maintenance and repair facilities. (Ord. 5916,
8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
      36.   Gasoline Station: Establishments engaged in the retail sale of
automotive fuels (gasoline, gasohol, diesel, CNG) in combination with retail
sales associated with automobile maintenance which may include enclosed repair
facilities but not the permanent parking or storage of damaged, wrecked, or
inoperable vehicles.
      37.   Gasoline Station With Convenience Store: Establishments engaged in
the retail sale of automotive fuels (gasoline, gasohol, diesel, CNG) in
combination with one or more uses that may include convenience store items, car
wash facilities, drive- through lane, or integrated food services prepared for
on/off premises consumption.
      38.   Truck Stop: Establishments engaged in the retail sale of automotive
fuels (gasoline, gasohol, diesel, CNG) in combination with one or more uses
that may include shower facilities, lounge areas, laundry facilities, scales,
semitruck wash bays, incidental repair facilities, or provisions for the off
street parking of semitrucks. (Ord. 6194, 10-13-2014; amd. Ord. 6258, 6-11-
2018)
      39.   Light Motor Vehicle Maintenance: Commercial businesses or self-
service facilities for washing, polishing, and repairing of motorcycles and
automobiles, including the sale, installation, and servicing of automobile
equipment and parts, but excluding body repairs and painting.
      40.   Heavy Motor Vehicle Maintenance: Heavy repair of automobiles,
trucks, buses, aircraft, and recreational or utility vehicles, including the
sale, installation, and servicing of engines, equipment, and other parts, and
body repair, painting, and wrecking services having temporary storage of
damaged vehicles.
      41.   Outdoor Vehicle Storage: Storage of vehicles used regularly in
business operations or as a service to individual vehicle owners and not
available for sale or long term storage, and facilities or structures for the
storage of nonoperating motor vehicles, but excluding junk or salvage yards.
      42.   Automobile Parking: Nonstorage transient parking of automobiles or
noncommercial vehicles with or without a fee, and within an off street parking
area or multilevel structure as a principal use.
      43.   Personal Storage Warehouse: A structure containing enclosed
individual rental dead storage facilities serving primarily residential
customers, not exceeding eight hundred (800) square feet per unit, and not used
for sales purposes or storage of hazardous materials.
      44.   Horse Stables: Facilities for commercial boarding, breeding,
raising, or training of horses, and areas for the riding of horses by other
than the occupants of the premises.
      45.   Indoor Participant Recreation And Entertainment: Commercial
participant recreation and entertainment uses conducted within an enclosed
building such as bowling alleys, billiard parlors, dance halls, gymnasiums and
health clubs, skating rinks, and arcades.
      46.   Outdoor Participant Recreation And Entertainment: Commercial
participant recreation and entertainment uses, other than horse stables,
conducted in open facilities such as miniature golf courses, driving ranges,
go-cart tracks, and amusement parks.
      47.   Indoor Commercial Lodging: Lodging facilities involving room
accommodations for travelers, and incidental food, drink, and other sales and
services intended for the convenience of guests.
      48.   Outdoor Commercial Lodging: Campground services involving temporary
accommodations for recreational or vacation purposes, including sites for tents
and recreational vehicles, and incidental sales, services, and facilities
intended for the convenience of guests.
      49.   Restricted Indoor Spectator Sports And Entertainment: Enclosed
buildings such as theaters or amusement places with a capacity of five hundred
(500) or less people providing facilities for cultural, entertainment, or
athletic events, as well as social or fraternal gatherings, and including
retail sales and storage facilities that are incidental to the operation of
such uses.
      50.   Intensive Indoor Spectator Sports And Entertainment: Indoor
facilities generating significant noise, or traffic such as large theaters and
exhibition halls having a capacity of more than five hundred (500) people
providing for cultural, entertainment, or athletic events, and including retail
sales and storage facilities that are incidental to the operation of such uses.
      51.   Outdoor Spectator Sports And Entertainment: Large scale facilities
such as racetracks, fairgrounds, sports stadiums, and drive-in theaters, where
the activities occur primarily outside of buildings and which generate
significant noise, odor, or traffic. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6194, 10-
13-2014; Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
   D.   Industrial Categories: These uses include on site wholesale storage,
and all nonfarm businesses engaged in the mechanical or chemical transformation
of raw materials, semifinished products, or reclaimed finished products into
new products, including the assembly of component parts, blending of materials,
and other manufacturing premises.
      1.   Custom Handicraft Production: On site production of goods such as
ceramics, candles, or custom jewelry by hand manufacturing which involves only
the use of hand tools or small mechanical equipment not exceeding two (2)
horsepower, or a single kiln not exceeding eight kilowatts (8 kW), and
incidental direct sale to consumers of only those goods produced on the
premises.
      2.   Restricted Indoor Warehousing: Wholesaling storage, and distribution
services within an enclosed building, whereby all transfer facilities for rail
and truck loading are located inside the building.
      3.   General Indoor Warehousing: Refrigerated warehousing, and other
wholesaling, storage, and distribution services within an enclosed building,
whereby transfer facilities for rail or truck loading are located outside the
building.
      4.   Outdoor Storage: Facilities having, as a principal function, open
air storage and handling of materials and equipment, including grain elevators,
road construction materials, monument or stone yards, wholesale vehicle or
building material lots, and other open storage yards where activity may
generate noise and dust.
      5.   Low Impact Manufacturing And Processing: Establishments engaged in
the manufacture, assembly, research, or processing of products and goods with
all operations occurring entirely within an enclosed structure, requiring no
outdoor industrial wastewater treatment system, producing no airborne
emissions, objectionable noise, glare, odor, vibrations, smoke, or dust
associated with the industrial operation detectable outside a building, and
where there is no outdoor storage of raw materials or products. (Ord. 5916, 8-
9-1999)
      6.   Medical Marijuana Processor: An establishment licensed under title
63, section 423 of the Oklahoma Statutes, whereby marijuana plants are
processed (packaged) into concentrates, edibles, and other forms for
consumption. (Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
      7.   Moderate Impact Manufacturing And Processing: Establishments engaged
in the manufacture, assembly, research, or processing of products, including
incidental outdoor storage of raw materials and products if properly screened,
such that all operations meet the environmental standards of this title, as
well as all other applicable government standards for wastewater and airborne
industrial emissions.
      8.   High Impact Manufacturing And Processing: Establishment engaged in
the manufacture, assembly, research, or processing of products, including
outdoor storage of raw materials and products, such that all operations meet
the environmental standards of this title, as well as all other applicable
government standards for wastewater and airborne industrial emissions.
      9.   Hazardous Materials Operations: Facilities involving the
manufacture, bulk storage, or sale of flammable, explosive, poisonous, toxic,
caustic, or radioactive materials, such that all operations meet the applicable
government standards for wastewater and airborne industrial emissions.
      10.   Salvage Operations: Facilities involving the storage, sale,
dismantling or processing of used or waste materials that are not intended for
reuse in their original form. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
   E.   Infrastructure Categories: These uses are strongly vested with public
or social importance and, together, form the basic community framework of
facilities and services needed to sustain residential, commercial, industrial,
and civic functions of the urban settlement.
      1.   Government: Property and buildings not elsewhere classified which
are owned, used or operated in the public interest by any branch of government
for functions normally associated with the administration and maintenance of
the public infrastructure.
      2.   Public Education: Elementary and secondary schools, and libraries,
owned, used, or operated by public bodies, and available to the general public.
      3.   Restricted Community Recreation And Food Production: Passive and
active public recreational, social, and multipurpose uses not using artificial
lighting at night, as well as neighborhood and community fruit and vegetable
gardens that are available for public use during daylight hours.
      4.   Intensive Community Recreation: Active public recreational, social,
and multipurpose uses, including open or enclosed accessory structures having a
capacity limited to five hundred (500) persons, and which have outdoor lights
for illuminating nighttime activities.
      5.   Low Impact Institutional: Quasi-public or private activities and
facilities of an educational or religious nature such as churches, libraries,
elementary and secondary schools.
      6.   Moderate Impact Institutional: Public, quasi-public, or private
activities and facilities such as hospitals, vocational and vocational
rehabilitation schools, professional schools, and nursing and similar care
facilities, which may have a significant impact on surrounding uses due to the
nature of the intended use.
      7.   High Impact Institutional: A college or university which, due to
area requirements, traffic generation, and light or noise generation, has the
potential for major impact on surrounding uses.
      8.   Indoor Cultural: Public, quasi-public, or private facilities for
museum like preservation and exhibition of objects of artistic, cultural, or
scientific interest, and gallery exhibition of works of art for study and
pleasure, where all activities are contained entirely within an enclosed
building.
      9.   Outdoor Cultural: Botanical and zoological gardens, or other large
scale cultural facilities, where activities occur primarily outside of enclosed
buildings, and which may have a significant impact on surrounding uses with
respect to traffic, light, or noise generation.
      10.   Surface Passenger Transportation: Public or commercial mass
transportation facilities contributing to the surface movement of people on a
local or intercity basis by rail or road vehicles.
      11.   Surface Freight Transportation: Facilities which contribute to the
surface movement of intercity freight, including processing, loading, and
transfer storage.
      12.   Aircraft Transportation: Facilities providing access to airborne
transport for people and goods, including administrative, operational,
maintenance, and storage functions, and provision of incidental sales and
services intended for the convenience of crews and passengers.
      13.   Communication Services: Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephone mechanisms, including studios,
satellite receiving facilities and business dispatching or receiving antennas,
but excluding those uses included in "communication towers".
      14.   Communication Towers: Structures for radio and television
transmitting antennas, microwave antennas, cellular or PCS telephone service
antennas and all antennas which are taller than fifty feet (50') above ground
level at grade, as a principal use.
      15.   Restricted Light Utility: Utility facilities such as elevated water
tanks, water or sewage pumping stations, gas pressure control stations, and
electricity regulating substations needing locations near the area to be served
and having minimal land needs, but not requiring incidental storage of
equipment or vehicles, nor having a negative impact upon surrounding land uses.
      16.   General Light Utility And Public Protection: Essential public
services such as ambulance, fire protection, police, and civil defense
facilities involving direct citizen contact as well as incidental storage and
maintenance of necessary equipment or vehicles, and facilities required for
utility operation and maintenance involving storage of equipment and vehicles,
such that there may be a minor impact on surrounding areas.
      17.   Heavy Utility: Public services and utilities such as sewage
disposal facilities, water treatment plants, water storage reservoirs, refuse
transfer stations, electricity generating plants, and resource recovery
operations which may have a substantial impact due to attendant hazards,
nuisance characteristics, or maintenance and operational characteristics. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 5
USE STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Accessory Structures And Uses
11-5-2: Wireless Communications Towers And Antennas; Siting
11-5-3: Temporary Structures And Uses
11-5-4: Nonresidential Conversion Of Residential Structures
11-5-5: Location Of Alcoholic Beverage Establishments
11-5-5-5: Location Of Medical Marijuana Dispensaries
11-5-6: Daycare Services, Group Homes And Care Centers
11-5-7: Zero Lot Line Developments
11-5-8: Residential/Commercial Mixed Use
11-5-9: Freestanding Self-Service Facilities
11-5-10: Animal Keeping And Veterinary
11-5-11: Hazardous Materials Operations
11-5-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   General Description: Accessory structures and uses are permitted in any
zoning district in connection with a corresponding principal building or use
which is permitted, and which:
      1.   Are subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building served;
      2.   Contribute to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants,
business, or industry in the principal building or use served; and
      3.   Are located on the same site as the principal building or use
served, except as provided in section
11-13-1 of this title for off street parking.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Accessory structures and uses include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   Yard Accouterments: Yard accouterments such as statuary, trellises,
flagpoles, children's play facilities, dog houses, outdoor clotheslines,
fences, walls, and hedges subject to the requirements listed below:
         a.   Front Yard Fences: Defined as a fence located within the required
front yard setback area for all structures, or in front of the front wall of
the main building on the site. It shall be considered as a structure and shall
be subject to the regulations of the Building Code.
            (1)   A permit shall be required.
            (2)   Shall be a decorative type fence that is see through and does
not exceed four feet (4') in height. Decorative wrought iron fences are not to
exceed six feet (6') in height.
            (3)   Only picket, split rail, chainlink, or decorative wrought
iron (or galvanized steel, aluminum, or similar material having the appearance
of) shall be permitted. Maximum width of pickets shall be two and one-half
inches (21/2") and minimum separation of pickets shall be two and one-half
inches (21/2").
            (4)   Spiked caps or spears shall not be used on pickets under five
and one-half feet (51/2') in height.
            (5)   Retaining walls may be allowed to solve drainage or
topographical problems.
            (6)   Barbed, hog or chicken wire, or electric strand(s) fences
shall not be allowed except in Agricultural or Industrial Zoning Districts.
Collar activated, electronic pet containment systems are allowed.
            (7)   No front yard fence shall be erected within twenty five feet
(25') of the intersection of right-of-way lines of any public or private
street.
            (8)   A front yard fence or a front yard fence with a hedge or
similar vegetation shall not cause a view obstruction for any private driveway
and shall not in any case be erected within twelve feet (12') of the
intersection of any private driveway and the pavement edge or maintained
portion of a public or private street.
            (9)   Shall not obstruct any public walkway even if said public
walkway is on private property.
            (10)   Shall be kept in good repair, and in a safe and sanitary
condition at all times by the property owner.
            (11)   Regardless of these fence regulations, the property owner is
advised there may be more restrictive privately enforced regulations, such as
plat restrictions, declarations of covenants, and restrictions relating to
architectural controls, deed restrictions, or platted setback lines that may
further limit the construction of a fence on a parcel.
         b.   Side And Rear Yard Fences: Defined as a fence located behind the
front wall of the main building on the site.
            (1)   No such fence shall be constructed of sheet metal, garage
door panels, plywood sheets, or other material not commonly used for fencing.
            (2)   No such fence shall exceed eight feet (8') in height.
      2.   Adult Entertainment Use: "Adult entertainment uses" such as those
uses directed at adults and containing sexually explicit acts, nudity,
suggestive acts, or uses related to adult books, audio or videos, as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title, shall meet the following requirements and are subject to
a special use permit as described in section
11-17-4 of this title:
         a.   "Adult entertainment uses" as specified hereinabove and defined
in section
11-2-2 of this title shall be permitted to locate only in the C-2 zoning
district as a special use.
         b.   No such zoning shall be granted for any proposed location which
is within a one thousand two hundred foot (1,200') radius of any other "adult
entertainment uses" as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
         c.   No adult entertainment use shall be allowed to locate within a
five hundred foot (500') radius of any church, public or private school (type
which offers a compulsory education curriculum) or public or private park. Nor
shall any adult entertainment uses be allowed to locate within five hundred
feet (500') of any area zoned for residential use.
         d.   All distances required to be met pursuant to the terms of this
section shall begin at the property line of the proposed use and are measured
to the nearest property line of the public or private lot, school, park,
church, residentially zoned lot, or adult entertainment use within the
proscribed distance, if any.
      3.   Bed And Breakfast Homes: "Bed and breakfast homes" such as those
residential homes that provide for a fee, rooms and food, on a temporary basis,
to a clientele whose principal place of residence is elsewhere, as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title, are subject to a special use permit as described in
section
11-17-4 of this title, and are subject to the following requirements:
         a.   The host family must be the owner(s) of the dwelling proposed to
be used as the bed and breakfast facility. Any permit granted pursuant to such
and application for a special use permit shall expire when the applicants cease
to be the owner(s) or resident(s) of the dwelling.
         b.   The host family must reside in the principal structure, and
persons employed other than members of the host family shall be disclosed by
the applicant and shall be considered in the course of consideration of the
special use permit application.
         c.   The home must be developed, maintained, and operated so that the
building, yard, drive, and street have the appearance and character of a
single-family dwelling and does not detract from adjacent properties.
         d.   The bed and breakfast home must have no more than five (5) guest
bedrooms or host more than ten (10) overnight guests at one time.
         e.   The location of guest bedrooms in the principal or accessory
structures is subject to the review given the special use permit.
         f.   One off street parking space for each guest bedroom is required.
The planning commission may, upon appeal, waive such additional required
parking when it is determined that sufficient parking exists within the
neighborhood.
         g.   One nonilluminated sign, not more than four (4) square feet in
area, shall be allowed. Its color, text and location shall be identified on the
permit application. The words "hotel" or "motel" shall not be allowed.
         h.   Guests only may be provided a morning meal by the host, but no
other meal may be served and no cooking shall be permitted in guest bedrooms.
         i.   Bed and breakfast homes must meet all building, electric,
plumbing, fire and health codes of the city and appropriate agencies.
         j.   A site plan, as described in section
11-17-3 of this title, shall be submitted with the application, indicating the
location of the principal and accessory structures, guestrooms, parking and
signage. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      4.   Communication Towers And Antennas: See section
11-5-2 of this chapter for regulations for the siting of wireless communication
towers and antennas. (2003 Code)
      5.   Detached Garages, Carports, And Storage Buildings: Detached garages,
carports, and storage buildings; provided, that any storage of any equipment or
materials is clearly in keeping with the principal use of the property, and
provided that a permit, if applicable, is obtained from the building official
pursuant to the requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      6.   Carports: Carports are permitted to be added to or attached to an
existing residential structure subject to the following conditions and
requirements:
         a.   Building permit required.
         b.   All carports shall be located only over an existing paved
driveway.
         c.   All carports shall be kept in an attractive state and in good
repair, and in a safe and sanitary condition.
         d.   No carport shall be used for the storage of materials, equipment
and goods, or the parking and/or storage of inoperable vehicles.
         e.   No carport shall be enclosed at any time or the building permit
shall be revoked and the owner cited for noncompliance with these regulations.
         f.   All carports shall be constructed, erected, or installed to
conform with the structural requirements of the city's building code, as
amended, and shall have an architectural design and appearance compatible with
the primary building on the property. Design and appearance elements may
include, but are not limited to, roof type and pitch, colors, structural
design, texture, and materials.
         g.   Metal carports shall at a minimum be constructed of 26-gauge
steel or 0.25 aluminum decking with a baked on enamel finish compatible with
the exterior finish of the structure. Poles supporting the carport shall be at
a minimum wrought iron or metal material compatible with the exterior finish of
the structure. The poles shall be placed in concrete footings at least twelve
inches (12") in depth. Exposed eaves shall have rain guttering directing water
flow to the street and away from adjacent properties.
         h.   No carport in conjunction with a single-family or two-family
dwelling shall exceed twelve feet (12') in width for a single- family garage
and/or driveway and shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') in width for a
double garage and/or driveway. Under no circumstances shall a carport used in
conjunction with a single- family or two-family dwelling exceed twenty four
feet (24') in width. All width measurements shall be from eaves line to eaves
line. No more than one carport shall be permitted for each dwelling unit.
         i.   All carports will remain permanently open on at least three (3)
sides from the grade surface to eaves line. All carports which extend into the
required front yard setback shall be permanently open on all sides from grade
surface to eaves line.
         j.   No carport which extends into the required front yard setback
will be permitted closer than five feet (5') from the front property line, and
at no time shall a carport violate a sight triangle.
         k.   Regardless of these regulations, the property owner is advised
there may be more restrictive privately enforced regulations such as plat
restriction, declarations of covenants and restrictions relating to
architectural controls, deed restrictions, or platted setback lines that may
further limit the construction of a carport on a parcel.
         l.   Where a lawfully existing carport exists at the effective date
hereof that could not be constructed for any reason under the terms of this
subsection B6, such carport may continue to exist so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the restrictions concerning nonconforming uses as
set forth in section
11-14-2 of this title. (Ord. 6093, 2-23-2009, eff. 3-1-2009)
      7.   Detached Barn; Outbuildings: Detached barn and other farm
outbuildings not intended for human habitation, incidental to any permitted
residential use only in the RA or A districts, and provided that a permit, if
applicable, is obtained from the building official pursuant to the requirements
of section
11-17-1 of this title.
      8.   Detached Guesthouse: Detached guesthouse without kitchen facilities,
provided that a permit is obtained from the building official pursuant to the
requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title, and provided further that such accessory building is:
         a.   Incidental to a permitted residential use only in the R-1 or A
district; and
         b.   Used only for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants
of the principal building, and not as rental units for permanent household
occupancy.
      9.   Private Swimming Pools And Bathhouses: Private swimming pools and
bathhouses incidental to a permitted residential use; provided, that a permit
is obtained from the building official pursuant to the requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title, and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The yard containing such uses shall be enclosed with a fence at
least five feet (5') in height having no opening or space greater than six
inches (6"), and be equipped with spring or automatic closing and latching
gates with the latch being located at the top of the fence; and
         b.   The fencing may not include, nor be constructed in such a manner
so as to allow, openings from any living unit into any such area other than
single-family.
      10.   Detached Emergency Shelter: "Detached emergency shelter" as defined
in section
11-2-2 of this title; provided, that a permit is obtained from the building
official pursuant to the requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title and subject to the condition that no such shelter shall
be located in a provided front or exterior side yard unless it is not
physically feasible to install elsewhere on the property, in which case no part
of the shelter shall exceed eighteen inches (18") in height above ground level.
      11.   Detached Solar Collector: "Detached solar collector" as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title; provided, that a permit is obtained from the building
official pursuant to the requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   No part of such device shall be located in any required front or
side yard;
         b.   If located within the buildable area in a front or side yard, the
structure shall have an exterior appearance that is compatible with that of the
principal building.
      12.   Satellite TV Dish Antennas: "Satellite TV dish antennas" as defined
in section
11-2-2 of this title; provided, that a permit is obtained from the building
official pursuant to the requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title, and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   No part of such device shall be located in any required front or
side yard; and
         b.   If larger than four feet (4') in diameter and located within the
buildable area in a front or side yard, the antenna shall be enclosed with a
visual barrier of at least six feet (6') in height.
      13.   Amateur Radio Antennas: Amateur radio antennas not attached to, or
part of, a building, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   No part of such device shall be located in any required front or
side yard;
         b.   All structural elements shall be designed and installed to
withstand wind velocities in accordance with the applicable building codes and
FCC regulations;
         c.   All guywires and anchors shall be located within the setbacks
prescribed in this section for accessory structures; and
         d.   No radio or telecommunication frequency interferences may be
caused beyond the boundaries of the property in which the antenna is located.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      14.   Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS): "Wind energy conversion
system" as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title; provided that a special use permit has been granted by
the city on property classified in this title as industrial and otherwise in
accordance with the requirements of section
11-17-4 of this title, and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Accessory Structure: Only one WECS shall be permitted on any
individual property, intended solely to serve the principal use located on said
property. Multiple structures, grouping of, or "wind farms" are not permitted
within the city limits.
         b.   Code Compliance: The construction, operation, maintenance,
repair, modification and removal of any WECS shall be in strict compliance with
all current and future applicable technical, safety, and safety related codes
adopted by the city of Ponca City, the state of Oklahoma, and the United
States. These codes include, but are not limited to, construction, building,
electrical, fire, safety, health, and land use. All WECS installations shall be
in strict compliance with both the NEC and NESC code so as to eliminate any
possibility of a backfeed to the electrical utility system, should it become
deenergized for any reason.
         c.   Wind Load: All structural elements of a WECS shall meet or exceed
a designated wind load velocity of one hundred twenty (120) miles per hour and
all WECSs shall be equipped with manual and automatic overspeed controls.
         d.   Safety: All WECSs and their appurtenant structures shall
generally be located, fenced or otherwise secured in a manner that prevents
unauthorized access. Specifically, all WECSs and other supporting structures,
including guywires, shall be made inaccessible to individuals and constructed
or shielded in such a manner that they cannot be climbed on or be collided
with.
         e.   Blade Arc: The lowest point of the rotor blade arcs of a WECS
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') above the ground. The lowest point for
a mini WECS shall be ten feet (10').
         f.   Height: The maximum height of any WECS structure, as measured
from the base thereof to its highest point, to include height added by any
blade in a vertical position, shall be limited to one hundred fifty feet (150')
or the maximum height permitted within the airport overlay district, whichever
is less. The structure shall be lighted in accordance with FAA standards.
         g.   Setbacks: The WECS structure as measured from the base thereof to
its highest point, including height added by any blade in a vertical position,
shall be set back from any occupied building, property line, public road, and
third party transmission lines or communication towers, a distance of one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of its total height.
         h.   Prohibited Location: No part of a WECS, including guywires, shall
be located within or over any drainage, utility, or other dedicated easement,
right of way, or minimum required setback line.
         i.   Sign: At least one sign shall be posted at the base of the WECS
structure and shall contain at a minimum, a warning of high voltage, an
emergency telephone number and emergency shutdown procedures. This provision
does not apply to mini WECS.
         j.   Roof Location: WECS structures may be located upon the roof of a
building only when the city is presented with evidence submitted by a
registered structural engineer stating that the building will support the
weight and wind loading pressures of the WECS structure and all guywires
supporting the WECS structure will have their anchor points within the confines
of the roof on which the WECS structure is located.
         k.   Mini WECS: Mini WECS may be permitted in any zoning district,
provided the installation, location and operation of such devices are in
compliance with these conditions as well as the bulk standards contained in
subsection D of this section.
         l.   Environment Issues: Audible noise from an operating WECS shall
not exceed fifty five (55) decibels, as measured at the nearest property line
on which the WECS structure is located. The location of a WECS shall not
introduce the phenomenon referred to as "shadow flickering" to any nearby
residential neighborhoods. The operation of a WECS shall not create
interference, disruption, or loss of radio, telephone, or television signals to
those living or working nearby. Failure of the owner/operator to remedy any
environmental issues upon written notice by the city shall constitute a
nuisance.
         m.   Nuisance Abatement: Upon abandonment of any WECS, or if its
operational condition poses a potential safety hazard or otherwise in violation
of any local, state, or federal regulation, the owner/operator shall
immediately take action to remedy the situation. The city reserves the
authority to abate any hazardous situation by revoking the permit and removing
the structure. If the city determines that the WECS poses a safety hazard or
has not been operational for a continuous period of six (6) months, it shall be
considered a nuisance and upon written notice, shall be removed by the owner/
operator. Should the city be required to remove the WECS, the cost of removal
shall be the responsibility of the owner/operator and the city will seek any
legal means available to recover such costs. (Ord. 6181, 9-9-2013)
      15.   Home Occupations: "Home occupation" as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title in residential districts are permitted, provided they do
not detract from the residential character, appearance, or makeup of the
neighborhood in which the home occupation is located. Applicants for a home
occupation must complete an application which may be obtained in the city
planning department. Home occupations which rely upon attraction of the general
public (e.g., retail sales) are not permitted. Retail sales may not be
conducted on the premises; however products for sale may be mailed to customers
or carried to another location at which site they may be sold to customers.
Ideally, a home occupation is an office occupation in which customer contact is
nonexistent, such as taking orders or information over the telephone and
shipping products or information to customers remotely located from the site of
the home occupation. A home occupation is not intended to take the place of
commercial space located elsewhere in the community which is zoned for
intensive commercial and retail activities. Owners of home occupations must be
very cautious about how they operate their home occupation to ensure they do
not adversely impact the surrounding neighborhood. The following factors define
a legal home occupation and shall be used to determine if a home occupation is
violating this title:
         a.   Extent Of Home Occupation: Whether or not the residential use is
still the primary use of the property. Factors that shall be used to determine
the primary use of the property shall include, but are not limited to, the area
of the property used for the home occupation and the amount of time the home
occupation is operated on a daily basis. The following criteria are established
for a legitimate home occupation:
            (1)   Home occupations shall be carried on by a member of the
family residing on the premises.
            (2)   No person other than a member of the immediate family
residing on the premises shall be employed.
            (3)   No retail sales of products is allowed on the premises to
customers visiting the premises.
            (4)   No mechanical equipment is used which creates a disturbance
such as noise, dust, odor, or electrical disturbance.
            (5)   No merchandise or goods shall be displayed, stockpiled, or
stored outside the dwelling or inside the dwelling in such a manner as to be
visible from outside the home.
            (6)   The home occupation shall not occupy more than thirty five
percent (35%) of the gross combined floor area of the main and all accessory
buildings.
            (7)   The home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to
residential use of the dwelling.
            (8)   It is the intent of the home occupation provision that no
more than two (2) customers/clients/students be at the site of the occupation
at any one time.
            (9)   The term "home occupation" shall not be interpreted to
include any of the following uses:
               (A)   Commercial stable or kennels.
               (B)   Metalworking, machine shops, or cabinetmaking.
               (C)   Welding.
               (D)   Automobile repair, automobile body repair, or automobile
painting.
               (E)   Salvage of any type.
               (F)   Retail sales of products on the premises to customers on
the premises.
               (G)   Offices of doctors, physicians, chiropractors, nurses.
         b.   Appearance From Adjacent Street: Whether or not the use of the
property as a home occupation is distinguishable from an adjacent street.
Except for a nonilluminated, permanent identification sign, no larger than two
(2) square feet in size, attached to the principal structure, there shall be
nothing that occurs on the property that can be observed from adjacent streets
that makes it readily apparent that a home occupation is being operated on the
premises. Factors for evaluating this standard shall be that the residential
dwelling not be altered to change its residential appearance, and no activity
related to the conduct of the home occupation shall be permitted to occur in
such a manner as to be obtrusive to the neighborhood, attract attention to the
home occupation or adversely impact the residential character of the
neighborhood.
         c.   Impact On Neighborhood: Whether or not the home occupation
activity is causing a nuisance to surrounding property owners; is adversely
impacting the peace, health, or safety of neighborhood residents; and/or is
causing a deviation from the residential character of the neighborhood. Factors
for evaluating this standard shall be:
            (1)   Traffic: Whether or not the home occupation is generating
traffic that is excessive and/or detrimental to the neighborhood. A home
occupation will be allowed to generate no greater than ten (10) vehicle trips
per day.
            (2)   Parking: Whether or not parking problems are resulting from
the home occupation use. Factors which shall be used to evaluate this criteria
include, but are not limited to, the following:
               (A)   The home occupation shall accommodate parking associated
with their occupation on the property on which the home is located;
               (B)   Parking on the property shall be on a surface equal to the
paving surface of any existing driveway (asphalt or concrete) unless there is
no surface other than the ground, in which case a gravel surface shall be
provided; and
               (C)   Parking on the street may go beyond the property
boundaries to accommodate special gatherings, or for the drop off or pick up of
customers, or products not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes in duration.
            (3)   Nuisance: Whether or not the home occupation activity is
causing a nuisance to surrounding property owners or is deviating from the
residential character or appearance of the neighborhood. Existing property
maintenance codes, fire codes, building codes, environmental and safety codes,
etc., shall be the primary basis for establishing a nuisance.
A violation of any one of these criteria, may cause the code official to
terminate the use described as a home occupation, and in such case the use
shall cease upon notification by the code official.
      16.   Family Daycare Homes: "Family daycare homes", as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title (7 or less children), and provided for in subsection 11-5-
6A of this chapter, incidental to any single-family residential use; provided,
that such accessory use:
         a.   Complies with all rules, regulations, and licensing requirements
adopted by the state of Oklahoma through its department of human services; and
         b.   Be so developed, maintained, and operated that the building and
yards have the appearance and character of a single-family dwelling, and do not
detract from abutting single-family dwelling properties. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      17.   Parking Of Motor Vehicles Incidental To Residential Uses: Parking
and storage of motor vehicles incidental to residential uses, if the parking
area is inside a garage or carport, or outside in the side or rear yard.
Outside parking in the front yard is permitted with the following requirements:
         a.   The motor vehicle is parked on a hard surfaced area consisting of
concrete, asphalt, or pavers that is on or adjacent and contiguous to a
driveway. Provisions of subsection 11-14-1F2 of this title (maximum impervious
surface), must also be met. This provision shall not apply to lots that are
legally nonconforming, as determined by the building official or his designee.
         b.   No part of the motor vehicle extends into the public right of
way, which shall include any portion of a sidewalk.
         c.   No required sight triangle is encroached upon.
         d.   The motor vehicle is parked perpendicular to the street.
         e.   It shall otherwise be unlawful and an offense for any person to
park or store, or any property owner to permit any person to park or store, any
motor vehicle on grass, dirt, or similar unpaved surface located in the front
yard of any residence.
      18.   Parking And Storage Of Recreational Vehicles: Parking and storage
of recreational vehicles incidental to residential uses, if the parking area is
inside a garage or carport, or outside in the side yard or rear yard. Outside
parking in the front yard is permitted with the following requirements:
         a.   The recreational vehicle is parked on a hard surfaced area
consisting of concrete, asphalt, or pavers that is on or adjacent and
contiguous to a driveway. Provisions of subsection 11-14-1F2 of this title
(maximum impervious surface), must also be met. This provision shall not apply
to lots that are legally nonconforming, as determined by the building official
or his designee.
         b.   No part of the recreational vehicle extends to within twelve feet
(12') of the curb or edge of pavement, nor over any portion of a sidewalk.
         c.   No required sight triangle is encroached upon.
         d.   The recreational vehicle is parked perpendicular to the street.
         e.   At no time shall a recreational vehicle be used for dwelling
purposes unless located within a trailer court or campground zoned and legally
used as such. Temporary electrical connection to a residence may be permitted
only for charging batteries to prepare said vehicle for use.
         f.   No recreational vehicle shall discharge any litter, sewage,
effluent or other matter, except into sanitary facilities designed to dispose
of such materials.
         g.   At no time shall said vehicle be used for storage of goods,
materials, or equipment other than those items considered being a part of the
unit or essential for its immediate use.
         h.   It shall otherwise be unlawful and an offense for any person to
park or store, or any property owner to permit any person to park or store, any
recreational vehicle on grass, dirt, or similar unpaved surface located in the
front yard of any residence. (Ord. 6199, 2-9-2015)
      19.   Auto And Truck Rental: Rental of autos, utility trailers and single
axle trucks incidental to an automobile service station, provided that a paved
and landscaped area for such accessory use is provided in addition to the
service driveway and required off street parking.
      20.   Gasoline Sales; Convenience Grocery Stores: Sale of gasoline
incidental to convenience grocery stores; provided, that the service drives are
in addition to the driving isles serving the required off street parking
spaces; and provided, that all pump islands and canopy support structures are
within the required building setbacks of the applicable zoning district. Pump
island canopies may project into a required yard as permitted by subsection 11-
14-1B3 of this title.
      21.   Restaurants; Gift Shops: Restaurants, drugstores, gift shops,
clubs, newsstands, travel bureaus, and ticket agencies when located in a
permitted hotel, motel, or transportation depot.
      22.   Employee Restaurants And Cafeterias: Employee restaurants and
cafeterias when located in a permitted business or industrial building.
      23.   Caretaker Living Quarters: Living quarters for caretaker or
watchman and immediate family in a nonresidential structure or detached
dwelling incidental to a nonresidential use on the same premises.
      24.   Signs: Signs in accordance with the provisions of chapter 12 of
this title.
      25.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
      26.   Sidewalk Café. “Sidewalk Cafes”, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title are permitted in the Central Business District as an
accessory use to the eating and drinking establishments use category under the
following conditions:
         a.   A Special Use Permit is approved in accordance with section
11-17-4 of this title, which permit shall be particularly reviewed for
conformance to the policies and safeguards established by this section. The
applicant shall provide documentation of support from the Ponca City Main
Street Board of Directors and at a minimum, two (2) letters of support from
property owners or business owners on the same block.
         b.   No person shall establish, install, operate or maintain a
Sidewalk Café without first obtaining a permit from the City of Ponca City. Any
permit issued for the establishment of a Sidewalk Café shall be revocable by
the City at will. The issuance of a Permit does not create a property right in
the Permit Holder beyond what is specified in this section. A Permit is
temporary in nature and can be revoked by the City for any reason.
         c.   Sidewalk Cafes must be located adjacent to an operating eating
and/or drinking establishment and cannot operate as a stand-alone business.
         d.   The sidewalk to be occupied by a Sidewalk Café shall be a minimum
width of ten (10) feet, with a minimum of four (4) feet in width maintained at
all times for pedestrian travel.
         e.   A Sidewalk Café shall not block access to any above-ground or
surface-mounted utility facilities, including, but not limited to, manholes,
sewer grates, storm drains, gas meters, valve boxes, electric meters, signal
boxes, or other fixtures and appurtenances necessary for the operation of a
utility system.
         f.   Cooking, preparation and display of food or beverages within a
Sidewalk Café is not permitted. This does not prohibit the use of a wait staff
to serve customers.
         g.   Sidewalk Cafes may be utilized year-round, but must be kept clean
and clear of all leaves, snow, ice, trash, and debris.
         h.   Heating or cooling devices are permitted but must not encroach
upon the street or adjacent property.
         i.   Free-standing umbrellas are permitted above the sidewalk if the
opened portion of the umbrella is located at least eight (8) feet above
sidewalk grade.
         j.   The use of speakers or other amplified sound equipment is
prohibited within the established confines of a Sidewalk Café.
         k.   The sale and consumption of Alcoholic beverages is permitted as
regulated by local ordinance, State law, and the regulations of the Alcoholic
Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission (ABLE Commission).
         l.   A Sidewalk Café shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, as amended (“ADA”) as well as the ADA accessibility requirements
set forth in the Manual.
         m.   The applicant shall provide and maintain a certificate of
insurance evidencing current insurance general liability coverage with policy
limits of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) of coverage per
occurrence, covering claims for bodily injury, death, or property damage,
including claims related to the Sidewalk Café area and the operation and use
thereof, provided by an insurer authorized to transact insurance business in
Oklahoma. The City of Ponca City shall be named as an additional insured. Each
required insurance policy shall provide by endorsement that thirty (30) days’
prior written notice of cancellation shall be delivered by the insurer to the
City Clerk, except that ten (10) days written notice of cancellation shall be
provided by the insurer due to non-payment of premium. Permit holders shall
furnish a replacement Certificate of Insurance to the City Clerk when any
required insurance policy expires or is canceled, so that insurance coverage is
continuous. All Certificates of Insurance forms submitted must be approved by
the City Attorney. Failure by the permit holder to maintain the required
insurance coverage is a violation of the conditions of approval of the Sidewalk
Café permit and may result in consequences up to and including revocation of
the permit.
      27.   Parklet. “Parklets”, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title are permitted in the Central Business District as an
accessory use to the eating and/or drinking establishments use category under
the following conditions:
         a.   A Special Use Permit is approved in accordance with section
11-17-4 of this title, which permit shall be particularly reviewed for
conformance to the policies and safeguards established by this section. The
applicant shall provide documentation of support from the Ponca City Main
Street Board of Directors and at a minimum, two (2) letters of support from
property owners or business owners on the same block.
         b.   No person shall construct, install, operate or maintain a parklet
without first obtaining a permit from the City of Ponca City. Any permit issued
for the construction of a Parklet shall be revocable by the City at will. The
issuance of a Permit does not create a property right in the Permit Holder
beyond what is specified in this section. A Permit is temporary in nature and
can be revoked by the City for any reason.
         c.   Parklets must be located adjacent to an operating eating and/or
drinking establishment and cannot operate as a stand-alone business.
         d.   The applicant is required to submit sealed and stamped drawings
and plans for the Parklet from an engineer or architect licensed in the State
of Oklahoma. Compliance with all technical standards, including, but not
limited to, structural integrity, design requirements imposed by this chapter
or the manual, ADA compliance, and stormwater requirements are the
responsibility of the design professional.
         e.   The Parklet platform must be designed and constructed so that the
Parklet becomes an extension of the sidewalk. A maximum horizontal gap of one-
half (½) inch is permitted between the sidewalk and the parklet platform. A
Parklet must allow for two (2) feet of space between the outside edge of the
Parklet and any adjacent angled parking space. The outer edge of a Parklet,
being the street-side edge, must be set back a minimum of twelve (12) inches
from the travel lane. The parklet platform must be designed and constructed to
support one hundred (100) pounds per square foot. The Parklet platform cannot
exceed a two percent (2%) cross-slope. The Parklet platform and frame must be
designed to allow rainwater to flow along the curb without obstruction. The
Parklet is required to have reflective elements at all outside corners. Only
the sidewalk-facing side of a Parklet can be open to pedestrian access.
Overhead design elements are permitted only when there are no overhead
facilities in proximity to the Parklet and may require additional review and
compliance with all applicable building codes.
         f.   A Parklet shall not block access to any above-ground or surface-
mounted utility facilities, including, but not limited to, manholes, sewer
grates, storm drains, gas meters, valve boxes, electric meters, signal boxes,
or other fixtures and appurtenances necessary for the operation of a utility
system.
         g.   Cooking and preparation of food or beverages within a Parklet is
not permitted.
         h.   Parklets may be utilized year-round, but must be kept clean and
clear of all leaves, snow, ice, trash, and debris.
         i.   Heating or cooling devices are permitted within a Parklet but
must not encroach on the street or sidewalk.
         j.   Free-standing umbrellas are permitted within a Parklet and above
the sidewalk if the opened portion of the umbrella is located at least eight
(8) feet above sidewalk grade.
         k.   The use of wireless speakers or other amplified sound equipment
is permitted within a Parklet. The use of wireless speakers and amplified sound
may not exceed ninety (90) decibels within the Parklet.
         l.   Alcoholic beverages are permitted within Parklets as permitted by
local ordinance, state law, and the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement Commission (ABLE Commission).
         m.   A Parklet, including a sidewalk extension, must comply with the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“ADA”) as well as the ADA
accessibility requirements set forth in the Manual.
         n.   The applicant shall provide and maintain a certificate of
insurance evidencing current insurance general liability coverage with policy
limits of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) of coverage per
occurrence, covering claims for bodily injury, death, or property damage,
including claims related to the Parklet area and the operation and use thereof,
provided by an insurer authorized to transact insurance business in Oklahoma.
The City of Ponca City shall be named as an additional insured. Each required
insurance policy shall provide by endorsement that thirty (30) days’ prior
written notice of cancellation shall be delivered by the insurer to the City
Clerk, except that ten (10) days written notice of cancellation shall be
provided by the insurer due to non-payment of premium. Permit holders shall
furnish a replacement Certificate of Insurance to the City Clerk when any
required insurance policy expires or is canceled, so that insurance coverage is
continuous. All Certificates of Insurance forms submitted must be approved by
the City Attorney. Failure by the permit holder to maintain the required
insurance coverage is a violation of the conditions of approval of the Parklet
permit and may result in consequences up to and including revocation of the
Parklet permit.
      28.   Drive-Up Windows: Drive-up windows, in commercial districts,
provided a permit is obtained from the building official pursuant to the
requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   For restaurants and banks, counting the space at the point of
service, there shall be provided a minimum queue capacity for five (5) cars not
blocking any parking spaces or driveways;
         b.   For other uses utilizing a drive-up window there shall be a
minimum queue capacity of two (2) spaces, counting the space at the point of
service, not blocking parking spaces or driveways; and
         c.   The City Engineer shall review all requests for drive-up window
permits for proper circulation and interaction with the adjacent street(s), and
may require additional queue capacity if warranted by the particular use and
site design.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses are not allowed as accessory uses
except as otherwise noted:
      1.   Overnight parking in a residential district of trucks or buses,
except those trucks having a manufacturer's rating of less than one ton which
may be permitted, and except one bus per multiple-family complex; and
      2.   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment, except as specifically
permitted in the district regulations. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
   D.   Bulk Standards: Accessory buildings and structures other than signs are
subject to the following yard, lot coverage, and height regulations:
      1.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard requirement of the individual
districts shall apply to all accessory buildings and structures except as
provided in section
11-14-1 of this title.
      2.   Side Yard: Interior side yard setbacks shall be the minimum of that
required of the principal buildings in the applicable district, except
residential zoning districts, where the setback ratio shall be one foot (1')
for each foot of building height. Exterior side yards shall be the same as that
required of the principal building. All fences and walls are exempt from any
interior side yard requirement, and certain other accessory structures may be
allowed in side yards as provided in section
11-14-1 of this title.
      3.   Rear Yard: There are no minimum rear yard setback requirements for
accessory structures and buildings, except in residential zoning districts,
where the setback ratio shall be one foot (1') for each foot of building
height. A minimum setback of one foot (1') from the alley right-of-way or
easement shall be provided for structures other than fences and walls. (Ord.
6170, 5-13-2013)
      4.   Lot Coverage: Coverage of rear yards by accessory structures in
residential zoning districts shall not exceed eight hundred (800) square feet
or twenty percent (20%), whichever is less. Accessory structures placed on lots
comprising one acre or more in area shall not exceed one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet. In the R-3 Multiple-Family Residential District, coverage
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%). (Ord. 6253, 5-14-2018)
      5.   Height: The maximum permitted height for accessory structures shall
be no more than fifty percent (50%) of that required of principal buildings,
except in residential zoning districts, where the maximum permitted height
shall be 17.5 feet or the height of the primary structure, whichever is less.
Maximum height shall otherwise specifically be provided in section
11-14-1 of this title. (Ord. 6170, 5-13-2013; amd. Ord. 6333, 8-28-2023)
11-5-2: WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS; SITING 1 :
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish general guidelines
for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas. The goal of this
section is to:
      1.   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      2.   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
      3.   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      4.   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single use towers;
      5.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent
possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      6.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      7.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently;
      8.   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      9.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures. In furtherance of
these goals, the City shall give due consideration to the master plan, zoning
map, existing land uses, and environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites
for the location of towers and antennas.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:
    ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative design mounted structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK: The lines that connect a provider's towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA: The federal aviation administration.
   FCC: The federal communications commission.
   HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS: Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date hereof, including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet
been constructed so long as such approval is current and not expired.
   TOWER: Any structure exceeding sixty (60) feet in height above the mean
ground elevation, that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar communication
purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, or monopole towers. The
term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers,
common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures,
and the like. The term includes the structure and any support thereto.
   C.   Applicability:
      1.   New Towers And Antennas: All new towers or antennas in the city
shall be subject to these regulations, except as provided in subsections C2
through C4, inclusive, of this section.
      2.   Amateur Radio Station Operators/Receive Only Antennas: This section
shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under
seventy feet (70') in height and is owned and operated by a federally licensed
amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only
antennas.
      3.   Preexisting Towers Or Antennas: Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section, other
than the requirements of subsections D6 and D7 of this section.
      4.   AM Array: For purposes of implementing this section, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
      5.   Guyed Towers: Guyed towers shall not be allowed within the city
limits unless there is substantial evidence showing no other alternative is
feasible.
   D.   General Requirements:
      1.   Principal Or Accessory Use: Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
tower on such lot, provided it meets required setback distances.
      2.   Lot Size: For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including, but
not limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot. (Ord.
5928, 4-24-2000)
      3.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide to the community development director an inventory of its
existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are
either within the jurisdiction of the city or within one mile of the border
thereof, including specific information about the location, height, and design
of each tower. The community development director may share such information
with other applicants applying for administrative approvals or special use
permits under this section or other organizations seeking to locate antennas
within the jurisdiction of the city; provided, however, that the community
development director is not, by sharing such information, in any way
representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
      4.   Aesthetics: Towers and antennas shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or,
subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so
as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
         b.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and
surrounding buildings.
         c.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      5.   Lighting: Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required
by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
      6.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers must meet or exceed
current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of
the state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and
antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the
towers and antennas governed by this section shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
(6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
      7.   Building Codes Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes
and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the electronic
industries association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
city concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then, upon notice being provided
to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such
tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower into
compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute grounds for the
removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
      8.   Measurement: For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
the city irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
      9.   Not Essential Services: Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this section and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities. (Ord. 5928, 4-24-
2000)
      10.   Franchises: Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in the city have been obtained and
shall file a copy of all required franchises with the community development
director.
      11.   Public Notice: For purposes of this section, any special use
request, variance request, or appeal of an administratively approved use or
special use shall require public notice to all abutting property owners and all
property owners of properties that are located within the corresponding
separation distance listed in subsection G2e(2) of this section,
table 2, in addition to any notice otherwise required by the zoning ordinance.
      12.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
      13.   Buildings And Support Equipment: Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of
subsection H of this section.
      14.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan: The city encourages the users of
towers and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple
towers and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall
be given priority in the review process.
   E.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   General: The uses listed in this subsection E are deemed to be
permitted uses and shall not require administrative approval or a special use
permit.
      2.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are specifically permitted:
antennas or towers located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled
by the city, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has
been approved by the city.
   F.   Administratively Approved Uses:
      1.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas:
         a.   The community development director may administratively approve
the uses listed in this section.
         b.   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
community development director providing the information set forth in
subsections G2a and G2c of this section and a nonrefundable fee in such amount
as set by resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time to
reimburse the city for the costs of reviewing the application.
         c.   The community development director shall review the application
for administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with
subsections D, G2d and G2e of this section.
         d.   The community development director shall respond to each
application by either approving or denying said application.
         e.   In connection with any such administrative approval, the
community development director may, in order to encourage shared use,
administratively waive any separation distances between towers in subsection
G2e of this section by up to fifty percent (50%).
         f.   In connection with any such administrative approval, the
community development director may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles,
administratively allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole
construction.
         g.   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall file
an application for a special use permit pursuant to subsection G of this
section prior to filing any appeal that may be available under this title.
      2.   List Of Administratively Approved Uses: The following uses may be
approved by the community development director after conducting an
administrative review:
         a.   Locating a tower or antenna, including the placement of
additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said
tower or antenna, in any district zoned industrial or C-2 general commercial.
         b.   Locating antennas on existing structures or towers consistent
with the terms of subsections F2b(1) and F2b(2) below:
            (1)   Antennas On Existing Structures: Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the community development director as an
accessory use to any commercial, industrial, professional, or institutional
structure, provided:
               (A)   The antenna does not extend more than thirty feet (30')
above the highest point of the structure;
               (B)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
               (C)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
            (2)   Antennas On Existing Towers: An antenna which is attached to
an existing tower may be approved by the community development director and, to
minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and
clustering of towers, collocation of antennas by more than one courier on
existing towers shall take precedence over the construction of new towers,
provided such collocation is accomplished in a manner consistent with the
following:
               (A)   A tower which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate
the collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the
existing tower, unless the community development director allows reconstruction
as a monopole.
               (B)   Height:
         i.   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller height,
not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the tower's existing height, to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna.
         ii.   The height change referred to in subsection F2b(2)(C)i below may
only occur one time per communication tower.
         iii.   The additional height referred to in subsection F2b(2)(C)i
below shall not require an additional distance separation as set forth in
subsection G of this section. The tower's premodification height shall be used
to calculate such distance separations.
               (C)   On Site Location:
         i.   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the collocation of
an additional antenna may be moved on site within fifty feet (50') of its
existing location, provided it continues to satisfy setback requirements.
         ii.   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only one
tower may remain on the site.
         iii.   A relocated on site tower shall be measured from the new tower
location for purposes of calculating separation distances between towers
pursuant to subsection G2e of this section.
         iv.   The on site relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands as
established in subsection G2e of this section shall only be permitted when
approved by the community development director.
         c.   New towers in nonresidential zoning districts. Locating any new
tower in a nonresidential zoning district other than industrial or heavy
commercial, provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the tower can
structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the applicant;
the community development director concludes the tower is in conformity with
the goals set forth in subsection A of this section and the requirements of
subsection D of this section; the tower meets the setback requirements in
subsection G2d of this section and separation distances in subsection G2e of
this section; and the tower meets the following height and usage criteria:
            (1)   For a single user, up to ninety feet (90') in height;
            (2)   For two (2) users, up to one hundred twenty feet (120') in
height; and
            (3)   For three (3) or more users, up to two hundred feet (200') in
height.
         d.   Locating any alternative tower structure in a zoning district
other than industrial or heavy commercial that in the judgment of the community
development director is in conformity with the goals set forth in subsection A
of this section.
         e.   Installing a cable microcell network through the use of multiple
low powered transmitters/receivers attached to existing wireline systems, such
as conventional cable or telephone wires, or similar technology that does not
require the use of towers.
   G.   Special Use Permits:
      1.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
special use permits for towers or antennas by the planning commission:
         a.   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under subsection E
of this section or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to
subsection F of this section, then a special use permit shall be required for
the construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning
districts.
         b.   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of this title, except as modified in
this section.
         c.   In granting a special use permit, the planning commission may
impose conditions to the extent the planning commission concludes such
conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower
on adjoining properties.
         d.   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant
submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
         e.   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the
information described in this section and a nonrefundable fee as set by
resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time to reimburse city
for the costs of reviewing the application.
      2.   Towers:
         a.   Information Required: Applicants for a special use permit for a
tower shall submit the following information in addition to any other required
information:
            (1)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), master plan
classification of the site and all properties within the applicable separation
distances set forth in subsection G2e of this section, adjacent roadways,
proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of
the proposed tower and any other structures, topography, parking, and other
information deemed by the community development director to be necessary to
assess compliance with this section.
            (2)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable).
            (3)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the
nearest residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties.
            (4)   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to subsection D3 of this section
shall be shown on an updated site plan or map. The applicant shall also
identify the type of construction of the existing tower(s) and the owner/
operator of the existing tower(s), if known.
            (5)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
            (6)   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination.
            (7)   A description of compliance with subsections D3, D4, D5, D6,
D7, D10, D12 and D13, G2d and G2e of this section and all applicable federal,
state or local laws.
            (8)   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether
construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas
for future users.
            (9)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the municipality.
            (10)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing
towers, other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of
towers or structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of
the proposed new tower.
            (11)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers
or antennas within the city based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
         b.   Factors Considered In Granting Special Use Permits For Towers: In
addition to any standards for consideration of special use permit applications,
the planning commission shall consider the following factors in determining
whether to issue a special use permit, although the planning commission may
waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria if
the planning commission concludes that the goals of this section are better
served thereby:
            (1)   Height of the proposed tower;
            (2)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and
residential district boundaries;
            (3)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
            (4)   Surrounding topography;
            (5)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
            (6)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
            (7)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
            (8)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures,
or alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in section G2c of this section.
         c.   Availability Of Suitable Existing Towers, Other Structures, Or
Alternative Technology: No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the planning commission that no
existing tower, structure or alternative technology that does not require the
use of towers or structures can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
An applicant shall submit information requested by the planning commission
related to the availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technology. Substantial evidence submitted to demonstrate that no
existing tower, structure or alternative technology can accommodate the
applicant's proposed antenna may consist of any of the following:
            (1)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
            (2)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
            (3)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient
structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related
equipment.
            (4)   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
            (5)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing
tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
            (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
            (7)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology
that does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable
microcell network using multiple low power transmitters/receivers attached to a
wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new
tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable.
         d.   Setbacks: The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required; provided, however, that the
planning commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if the goals
of this section would be better served thereby:
            (1)   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least seventy
five percent (75%) of the height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
            (2)   Accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning district
setback requirements.
         e.   Separation: The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the planning commission may reduce the standard separation
requirements if the goals of this section would be better served thereby.
            (1)   Separation from off site uses/designated areas.
               (A)   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the lot line of the off site uses and/or designated areas as specified
in
table 1, except as otherwise provided in
table 1.
               (B)   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in
table 1.
TABLE 1, SEPARATION DISTANCES
 
Off Site Use/Designated Area            Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential     200 feet or 300 percent height of
units1                                  tower, whichever is greater
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is       200 feet or 300 percent height of
either platted or has preliminary       tower2, whichever is greater
subdivision plan approval which is not
expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned    100 feet or 100 percent height of
lands3                                  tower, whichever is greater
Existing multi-family residential units 100 feet or 100 percent height of
greater than duplex units               tower, whichever is greater
Nonresidentially zoned lands or         None; only setbacks apply
nonresidential uses
 
1Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
2Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback line.
3Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid preliminary
subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-family
residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
            (2)   Separation distances between towers.
               (A)   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable
for and measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers. The
separation distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line
between the base of the existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a
site plan, of the proposed tower. The separation distances (listed in linear
feet) shall be as shown in
table 2.
               (B)   Table 2:
TABLE 2, EXISTING TOWERS - TYPES
 
                     Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet In Monopole Less Than 75
                                    Height Or Greater   Feet In Height
Lattice               5,000   NA    1,500               750
Guyed                 NA      NA    NA                  NA
Monopole 75 feet in   1,500   NA    1,500               750
height or greater
Monopole less than 75 750     NA    750                 750
feet in height
 
         f.   Security Fencing: Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing
not less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be equipped with an
appropriate anti-climbing device; provided however, that the planning
commission may waive such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
         g.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required;
provided, however, that the planning commission may waive such requirements if
the goals of this section would be better served thereby.
            (1)   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
            (2)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced.
            (3)   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the
site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
   H.   Buildings Or Other Equipment Storage:
      1.   Antennas Mounted On Structures Or Rooftops: Equipment storage
buildings or cabinets shall comply with all applicable building codes.
      2.   Antennas Mounted On Utility Poles Or Light Poles: The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in
accordance with the following:
         a.   Residential Districts: In residential districts, the equipment
cabinet or structure may be located:
            (1)   In a front or side yard, provided the cabinet or structure is
no greater than four feet (4') in height and the cabinet/structure is located a
minimum of three feet (3') from all lot lines. The cabinet/structure shall be
screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of at least forty two
inches (42") to forty eight inches (48") and a planted height of at least
thirty six inches (36").
            (2)   In a rear yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no
greater than eight feet (8') in height. The cabinet or structure shall be
screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet (8') and a
planted height of at least thirty six inches (36").
         b.   Commercial Or Industrial Districts: In commercial or industrial
districts the equipment cabinet or structure shall be no greater than eight
feet (8') in height. The structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen
hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet (8') and a planted height of at
least thirty six inches (36"). In all other instances, structures or cabinets
shall be screened from view of all residential properties which abut or are
directly across the street from the structure or cabinet by a solid fence six
feet (6') in height or an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet
(8') and a planted height of at least thirty six inches (36").
      3.   Antennas Located On Towers: The related unmanned equipment structure
shall be located in accordance with the minimum yard requirements of the zoning
district in which located.
      4.   Modification Of Building Size Requirements: The requirements of
subsections H1 through H3 of this section may be modified by the community
development director in the case of administratively approved uses or by the
planning commission in the case of uses permitted by special use to encourage
collocation.
   I.   Removal Of Abandoned Antennas And Towers: Any antenna or tower that is
not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered
abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the same within
ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the city notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower within said ninety
(90) days shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at the owner's
expense and/or a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) per offense.
If there are two (2) or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall
not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
   J.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Not Deemed Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: Towers that are
constructed, and antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a
nonconforming use or structure.
      2.   Preexisting Towers: Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including replacement
with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be permitted on such
preexisting towers. New construction other than routine maintenance on a
preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this section.
      3.   Rebuilding Damaged Or Destroyed Nonconforming Towers Or Antennas:
Notwithstanding subsection I of this section, bona fide nonconforming towers or
antennas that are damaged or destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first
obtain administrative approval or a special use permit and without having to
meet the separation requirements specified in subsections G2d and G2e of this
section. The type, height, and location of the tower on site shall be of the
same type and intensity as the original facility approval. Building permits to
rebuild the facility shall comply with the current applicable building codes
and shall be obtained within ninety (90) days from the date the facility is
damaged or destroyed. If no permit is obtained or if said permit expires, the
tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified in subsection I of this
section. (Ord. 5928, 4-24-2000; amd. 2003 Code; amd. Ord. 6262, 2-25-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. Subsection 11-5-1B4 of this chapter refers to wireless communication
  towers and antennas as a permitted use under accessory structures and uses.
11-5-3: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES:
Permitted Uses: The following "temporary structures" and "temporary uses", as
defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, are permitted subject to the specified regulations,
location requirements, time limits, and other applicable regulations of the
district in which the use is permitted:
   A.   Itinerant Merchant Activities: Itinerant merchant activities in
accordance with the provisions of the city code.
   B.   Contractor's Office And Equipment Sheds: Contractor's office and
equipment sheds accessory to a construction project, provided that:
      1.   Only one office or shed may contain sleeping or cooking
accommodations;
      2.   Ingress and egress must be from arterial or collector streets
except, however, the board of adjustment may approve, as a special exception, a
location with access to a minor street upon finding that such location would
result in less traffic on streets in residential areas; and
      3.   The use may continue for a period not to exceed one year in the same
location, unless extended as a special exception by the board of adjustment.
   C.   Real Estate Sales Office: Real estate sales office for activities
incidental to the marketing of properties in the subdivision in which located,
provided that:
      1.   The office shall not contain sleeping or cooking accommodations
unless located in a model home; and
      2.   Any such office may remain for two (2) years or until ninety percent
(90%) of the properties therein have been sold, whichever is sooner, unless an
extension of the period shall have been granted as a special exception by the
board of adjustment.
   D.   Christmas Tree Sales: Christmas tree sales in any type of district
other than residential or office, for a period of time not to exceed forty five
(45) days.
   E.   Garage, Yard Sales: Residential garage or yard sales of used personal
and household goods, provided that such sales are consistent with city
regulations.
   F.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-4: NONRESIDENTIAL CONVERSION OF RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES:
   A.   Existing residential structures in a residential district may be
converted to a nonresidential use that is permitted in the district without
complying with the increased minimum lot area, lot width, and yard
requirements; provided, that any new structural additions shall comply with the
applicable setbacks, and the structure and property are in conformance with the
applicable building code and off street parking requirements for the
nonresidential use.
   B.   Conversion of existing residential structures to a nonresidential use,
other than administrative and professional offices, child daycare centers, low
and moderate impact institutional, or indoor cultural uses, as described in
subsections 11-4-2C1 and C5 and subsections 11-4-2E5, E6 and E8 of this title,
is prohibited in all nonresidential and nonagricultural districts except as may
otherwise be determined, as a special exception, by the board of adjustment,
that such conversion would be in the best interests of preserving an
architecturally significant or structurally sound building meeting all code
requirements. In the case of a permitted conversion, any existing nonconformity
with respect to yard requirements may continue; provided, that any new
structural additions shall comply with the applicable setbacks, and the
structure and property are in conformance with the applicable building code and
off street parking and loading requirements for the nonresidential use. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-5: LOCATION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Location Near School Or Church: It shall be unlawful for any mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club, which has
been licensed by the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission and
which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or retail package store, to be located within
three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school or church property
primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious activities.
   B.   Measuring Distance: The distance indicated in this section shall be
measured from the nearest property line of such public or private school or
church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club, or retail package
store.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Licensed Prior To November 1, 2000: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments,
bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on
premises consumption, or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000;
provided, if at the time of application for license renewal, the licensed
location has not been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than
sixty (60) days, the license shall not be renewed.
      2.   School Or Church Established: If any school or church shall be
established within three hundred feet (300') of any retail package store, mixed
beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club, subject to
the provisions of this section after such retail package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club has been licensed,
the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such
license if there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days.
      3.   Change In Ownership: When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment, or bottle club, subject to the provisions of this section
which has a license to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption, or
retail package store changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and
such change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted
on the premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified. (Ord. 6259, 6-11-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
11-5-5-5: LOCATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES:
   A.   Location Near School: It shall be unlawful for any medical marijuana
dispensary which has been licensed by the Oklahoma Department of Health under
title 63, section 421 of the Oklahoma Statutes and which has as its main
purpose the retail selling of medical marijuana on the premises, to be located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any public or private school.
   B.   Measuring Distance: The distance indicated in this section shall be
measured from the nearest property line of a medical marijuana dispensary to
the nearest entrance to any public or private school. (Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
11-5-6: DAYCARE SERVICES, GROUP HOMES AND CARE CENTERS:
   A.   Family Daycare Homes: Family daycare homes are permitted as a home
occupation according to the provisions of subsection 11-5-1B15 of this chapter,
and as an accessory use according to the provisions of subsection 11-5-1B16 of
this chapter.
   B.   Child Daycare Centers: Child daycare centers, as described in
subsection 11-4-2C6 of this title, may be permitted as a principal use in
certain districts, subject to obtaining a special use permit and subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Such use shall comply with all rules, regulations, and licensing
requirements adopted by the State of Oklahoma through its Department of Human
Services.
      2.   Adequate off street loading areas shall be convenient for the
customers.
      3.   If located in a Single-Family Residential District, such use shall:
         a.   Be permitted only upon compliance with section
11-17-4 of this title.
         b.   Be so developed, maintained, and operated that the building and
yards have the appearance and character of a single-family dwelling, and do not
detract from abutting single-family dwelling properties.
         c.   Be designed such that there is no play equipment or care of
children in the front or side yard, and such that all outdoor facilities shall
be placed within a rear yard that is totally enclosed by a fence with an
automatically closing and latching gate.
   C.   Group Homes: Group homes are a use allowed by right in all residential
districts and may be established in other specified zoning districts as a
special use, provided the owner of such group home shall first submit an
application to the city and the following conditions are met:
      1.   The proposed group home will be a minimum of one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') from any other group home or similar community
residential facility serving persons in drug, alcohol, juvenile, child, parole,
and other program of treatment, care supervision, or rehabilitation in a
residential setting.
      2.   The group home has been licensed by the state department of health.
      3.   The applicant submits an application for a special use permit and a
fee in an amount established by the city commission and a list of names and
addresses of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') for the
purpose of mailing notification to the affected property owners of the intent
to establish a group home. The notice shall include:
         a.   The legal description of the property;
         b.   The street address or approximate location of the group home; and
         c.   A statement regarding the nature of the group home to be
established, supervision and number of residents.
   D.   Residential Care/Rehabilitative Centers: Residential care/
rehabilitative centers may be established in various zoning districts upon
obtaining a special use permit as outlined in section
11-17-4 of this title, subject to approval by the city commission following
public hearing(s). Residential care/rehabilitative centers include community
residential facilities serving persons in drug, alcohol, juvenile, child,
parole, family shelters, battered spouse shelters, halfway houses, and other
programs of treatment, care supervision, or rehabilitation in a residential
setting, and shall be a minimum of one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') from
any other group home or similar residential care/rehabilitative center as
defined above.
      1.   The proposed residential care/rehabilitative centers will be a
minimum of one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') from any other group home or
similar community residential facility serving persons in drug, alcohol,
juvenile, child, parole, and other program of treatment, care supervision, or
rehabilitation in a residential setting.
      2.   The residential care/rehabilitative center has been licensed, if
required, by the state department of health.
      3.   The applicant submits an application for a special use permit and a
fee in an amount established by the city commission and a list of names and
addresses of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') for the
purpose of mailing notification to the affected property owners of the intent
to establish a group home. The notice shall include:
         a.   The legal description of the property;
         b.   The street address or approximate location of the center; and
         c.   A statement regarding the nature of the center to be established,
supervision and number of residents. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-7: ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Single-family Zero Lot Line Housing:
      1.   Zero Lot Line: Detached dwellings may, where permitted, be located
such that an exterior sidewall is constructed with no setback from an interior
property line as described in subsection 11-4-2B2 of this title, and subject to
the following conditions:
         a.   No windows, doors, or other openings are permitted in said
sidewall.
         b.   The opposite side yard on the same property shall be a minimum of
twelve feet (12') in width.
         c.   A perpetual twelve foot (12') easement for the purpose of
building maintenance and separation between structures shall be provided on the
lot adjacent to the exterior dwelling sidewall along the common property line,
provided that:
            (1)   The maintenance easement shall apply only to principal
buildings, and to any accessory structures or vegetation that do not allow
reasonable access to the full height and width of the zero setback exterior
sidewall for the purpose of maintenance;
            (2)   Roof overhangs from principal buildings may penetrate the
easement on the adjacent lot a maximum of two feet (2') excluding gutter, but
the roof shall be so designed that water runoff from the structure placed on
the lot line is limited to the easement area; and
            (3)   Such easement must be shown on a subdivision plat, or
otherwise recorded by an irrevocable covenant which shall run with the land,
whereby proof of such recorded documents shall be submitted with applications
for a building permit for any structure to be so constructed.
         d.   If a driveway is to be located along the lot line, a note of
waiver must be recorded on the plat, or permission otherwise obtained from the
city engineer, for a curb cut turning radius encroachment on the frontage of
the adjacent property.
      2.   Semidetached Single-Family Dwellings: Semidetached single- family
dwellings on two (2) adjacent lots may, where permitted, be located such that
they have no setback from the same common interior property line as described
in subsection 11-4-2B6 of this title, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The common wall shall not contain doors or other openings between
the two (2) units, and shall be designed and constructed to meet the applicable
building and fire code requirements.
         b.   The minimum lot width for a pair of units so constructed may be
reduced to twenty five feet (25') for each individual lot, and the minimum lot
area for each individual lot may be reduced to three thousand six hundred
(3,600) square feet. Properties subdivided at less than the normal lot width
and area standards shall be eligible for the issuance of building permits only
for dwellings in the semidetached configuration.
         c.   Driveways for each two (2) dwelling units within a structure may
be adjacent along the common property line.
         d.   Each pair of lots, or entire subdivision, intended for such use
shall have covenants or restrictions which run with the land upon which the
units are located. Said covenants or restrictions shall specify methods and
responsibilities for dealing with common expenses among owners of abutting
units and other maintenance agreements consistent with shared property or
easements. Proof of such recorded documents shall be submitted with
applications for a building permit for any structure to be so constructed.
      3.   Townhouse Attached Dwellings: Townhouse attached dwellings, as
described in subsection 11-4-2B12 of this title are subject to the following
conditions in addition to the applicable provisions of chapter 10 of this
title:
         a.   Common walls shall not contain doors or other openings between
the two (2) units, and shall be designed and constructed to meet the applicable
building and fire code requirements.
         b.   The minimum lot width for units so constructed shall be twenty
feet (20'), and the minimum lot area shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         c.   Each group of abutting lots, or entire subdivision, intended for
such use shall have covenants or restrictions which run with the land upon
which the units are located. Said covenants or restrictions shall specify
methods and responsibilities for dealing with common expenses among owners of
abutting units.
   B.   Zero Lot Line Office Building: Office structures in commercial
districts may be constructed on two (2) or more adjacent lots such that they
have no setback from the same common interior property line for future sale of
individual portions of the building with its lot, provided the following
provisions are met:
      1.   The other side yard requirements are met;
      2.   The entire structure is built at one time;
      3.   The common wall has no doors or other openings between the units and
shall be designed and constructed to meet the applicable building and fire code
requirements; and
      4.   The lots intended for such use shall have covenants or restrictions
which run with the land which state the methods and responsibilities for
dealing with common maintenance agreements among property owners of abutting
units consistent with shared property or easements, particularly with regard to
driveways and parking lots. Proof of such recorded documents shall be submitted
with applications for a building permit for any structure to be so constructed.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-8: RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL MIXED USE:
Buildings of at least two (2) stories containing both residential and
commercial uses, as described in subsection 11-4-2B14 of this title are
permitted in certain commercial districts where, if new construction, the
minimum area of the lot shall be not less than six thousand (6,000) square
feet, and a ratio of total floor area to lot area shall not exceed eight-tenths
(0.8), except in the CBD district where the only requirement is the provision
of off street parking. In all cases the required off street parking shall be
the sum of that required for the residential use and the commercial use, unless
the periods of usage will not be simultaneous as determined by the planning
commission. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-9: FREESTANDING SELF-SERVICE FACILITIES:
Any self-service use including, but not limited to, automatic bank teller
machines, postal vending and depository facilities, or newspaper vending
machines, which are located in freestanding structures devoted solely to such
use either on a separate lot or as an accessory use within a complex of
buildings, are subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The self-service use must be located in a zoning district that would
permit the use by right as a principal nonself-service activity;
   B.   The structure may not occupy any off street parking, loading, or
landscaping area required for any other use;
   C.   Pedestrian walkways must be provided adjacent to the structure to
minimize pedestrian conflicts with vehicular traffic; and
   D.   The self-service use shall comply with all other applicable standards
and requirements of this title for principal uses with regard to setbacks,
parking, signs, screenings, vehicular access, etc. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-10: ANIMAL KEEPING AND VETERINARY:
   A.   All animal uses shall be conducted so as to prevent odor, dust, noise,
or drainage from becoming a nuisance to uses on other properties.
   B.   Keeping of animals within the city is subject to the regulations set
forth in the city code.
   C.   Small animal veterinary clinic buildings classified as low impact
animal services, as described in subsection 11-4-2C30 of this title shall be
located at least fifty feet (50') from any dwelling.
   D.   All uses classified as high impact animal services, as described in
subsection 11-4-2C31 of this title shall have all buildings and outside
structures located at least two hundred feet (200') from any residential
district. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-5-11: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OPERATIONS:
   A.   Manufacturing: Manufacturing of acid, cement, lime gypsum, explosives,
or gas, refining of petroleum and allied products, and other industrial
processes involving flammable, explosive, poisonous, toxic, caustic, or
radioactive materials as primary materials in the product manufacture, are uses
considered to be potentially hazardous to human health and safety. Such uses
are allowed only in the general industrial district, and only upon approval of
a special use permit. Approval of the city-county health department, the state
fire marshal, and other appropriate city, state, and county regulating agencies
is required, along with the imposition of specific restrictions intended to
protect the public welfare.
   B.   Storage: Bulk storage of gasoline, propane, butane, or other similar
petroleum products is considered to be potentially hazardous to human health
and safety. Such uses are allowed only in the general industrial district, and
only upon approval of a special use permit. Compliance with the regulations
administered by the occupational and hazardous substance division of the
Oklahoma department of health, and approval of the city-county health
department, the state fire marshal, and any other appropriate city, state, and
county regulating agencies is required, along with the imposition of specific
restrictions intended to protect the public welfare.
   C.   Use: The use of land or buildings for the commercial wholesale or
retail storage of liquefied petroleum gases shall be in accordance with the
ordinances of the city, and the regulations of the liquefied petroleum gas
administration of the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: General Description
11-6-2: Permitted Uses; Table
11-6-3: Area And Bulk Standards
11-6-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Purpose Of Regulations: The regulations for residential districts are
designed to:
      1.   Protect the residential character of areas so designated by
excluding therefrom principal commercial and industrial activities;
      2.   Encourage a suitable environment for family life by accommodating
appropriate neighborhood facilities such as churches, schools, and playgrounds;
      3.   Permit certain institutions and utility facilities considered
necessary in, and compatible with, residential neighborhoods;
      4.   Preserve openness of the living areas, facilitate privacy, and avoid
overcrowding;
      5.   Make available areas suitable for a variety of dwelling types and
densities; and
      6.   Protect residential areas against hazardous or objectionable
influences.
   B.   Districts Described: The individual residential districts are described
as follows:
      1.   R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District: The R-1 district is the most
restrictive residential district in that the only dwelling type permitted is a
conventional detached single-family house on a lot of not less than seven
thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet in size.
      2.   R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District: The R-2 district is generally
located adjacent to multi-family, high population density areas and is designed
to permit a transition from high density residential and high land value areas
to the single-family residential and to secure the character as outlined in the
R-1 district.
      3.   R-2M Medium Density Dwelling District: The R-2M district is intended
to provide for medium population density and can provide more flexibility in
design and more variety in residential development. It is intended that the
district will provide incentives for infill housing consistent with the
existing character and density of an area. The principal use of this district
is for garage apartments, zero lot line homes, duplexes, tri-plexes, four-
plexes, townhouses, and condominiums. Apartment complexes with maximum of eight
(8) attached dwelling units per structure will be allowed. Professional offices
shall also be allowed upon review as provided in the permitted uses table,
section
11-6-2.1 of this chapter.
      4.   R-3 Multi-Family Dwelling: The R-3 district is a high population
density area generally located adjacent to commercial districts. It is intended
that this district retain its residential character but to allow professional
offices. Local commercial is allowed upon review as provided in the permitted
use table, section
11-6-2.1 of this chapter.
      5.   RMHP Mobile Home Park Dwelling District: The RMHP district is
established in which the principal use of land is for single-family mobile home
dwellings located in a park setting in which lots are not individually owned.
      6.   RMHS Mobile Home Subdivision Dwelling District: The RMHS district is
established in which the principal use of land is for single-family mobile home
dwellings which have been designed and platted into individual lots and which
may be sold fee simple. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-6-2: PERMITTED USES; TABLE:
Uses permitted in the various residential districts are as set forth in the
following table. Meanings of symbols and references in the table are as
follows:
   A.   Where an "X" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "X" is permitted as a use of right in that district;
   B.   Where an "S" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "S" is permitted only through the approval of a
special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-4 of this title;
   C.   The letters preceding the general land use classifications, and the
numbers preceding the individual use categories, relate directly to the
corresponding system of identification in section
11-4-2 of this title; and
   D.   Where a cross reference number appears in the "reference" column to the
right of a particular use category, that category is subject to the
requirements set forth in that section or subsection of this title, or other
location in the city code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
TABLE 11-6-2.1, USES PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
R-1 R-2 R-2M R-3 RMHP RMHS Uses Reference
R- R- R- R-3 RMHP RMHS Uses                                       Reference
1  2  2M
                       (A) RESOURCE CATEGORIES (11-4-2A)           
                       (1) Restricted Horticulture: Ornamental
X  X  X  X   X    X    floriculture and nursery products (no       
                       building or structure)
                       (3) Crop Production: Field crops;
X  X  X  X   X    X    vegetables and melons; fruits and tree      
                       nuts
                       (B) RESIDENTIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2B)        
X  X  X  X   X    X    (1) Detached conventional single-family     
S  X  X  X           (2) Zero lot line single-family               11-5-7A1
         X        (3) Mobile home                             
         X    X    (4) Manufactured home                       
X  X  X  X   X    X    (5) Modular home                            
S  X  X  X           (6) Semi-detached single-family               11-5-7A2
  X  X  X       S    (9) Two-family                              
    X  X           (10) General multiple-family                
    X  X           (11) Condominium                            
  S  X  X           (12) Townhouse                                11-5-7A3
                       (7) Group Homes: Homes for the deaf or
X  X  X  X   X    X    blind; homes for the mentally handicapped;    11-5-6C
                       homes for the physically handicapped and
                       developmentally disabled
                       (8) Residential care/rehabilitation
                       centers includes community residential
                       facilities serving persons in drug,
                       alcohol, juvenile, child, parole, family
S  S  S  S       S    shelters, battered spouse shelters,           11-5-6D
                       halfway houses, and other programs of
                       treatment, care supervision, or
                       rehabilitation in a residential setting,
                       residential shelters, halfway house,
                       sheltered workshops
                       (13) Group Quarters: Rooming and boarding
      X           houses; dormitories; organization hotels    
                       and lodging houses (membership basis);
                       fraternity and sorority houses
S  S  S  S       S    Bed and breakfast homes                       11-5-1B3
X  X  X  X   X    X    Home occupation                               11-5-1B15
                          (C) COMMERCIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2C)   
                       (1) Administrative And Professional
                       Offices: Insurance offices; real estate
                       offices; investment offices; legal
      X           services; individual, family and            
                       organizational social services;
                       engineering, architectural, planning and
                       surveying services; accounting, auditing
                       and bookkeeping; offices
                       (5) Convenience Sales And Personal
                       Services: Delicatessen; convenience
                       grocery store; self-service postal
                       facilities (indoor); news dealer and self-
      S           service newspaper vending machine           
                       (indoor); automatic teller machine
                       (indoor); garment pressing, and agents for
                       laundries and dry cleaners; self-service
                       laundry and cleaning; tailor shop; beauty
                       and barber shops
                       (6) Child Daycare Center: Baby sitting
      S   S        bureau; daycare center; nursery and           11-5-6B
                       preschools
                       (27) Contractor Services: building and
                       heavy construction general contractor;
S                 other special building trade contractor,    
                       including the incidental outside storage
                       of equipment
                       (42) Automobile Parking: Automobile
      S       S    parking lots and structures as principal      Chapter 13
                       use
                 (43) Personal Storage Warehouse: Personal   
                       storage miniwarehouse
                          (E) INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORIES (11-4-2 
S  S  S  S       S    (1) Government: Government offices;         
                       Municipal facilities and activities         
                       (2) Public Education: Public elementary
S  S  S  S       S    and secondary schools; public libraries     
                       and information centers
                       (3) Restricted Community Recreation And
                       Food Production: Community gardens
S  S  S  S       S    available for public use on a prearranged   
                       basis; public golf course; passive
                       recreation park; active recreation park or
                       playground (no night lighting)
                       (4) Intensive Community Recreation:
S  S  S  S       S    Outdoor public participant sports park or   
                       playground (with night lighting); indoor
                       public recreation facilities
                       (5) Low Impact Institutional: Private
                       elementary and secondary schools; private
                       libraries and information centers; nursing
                       and similar residential care facilities
S  S  S  S       S    (for 5 or fewer residents); residential     
                       care facilities for 5 or fewer residents;
                       church, chapel, synagogue, or other place
                       of worship; convent, monastery, religious
                       school
                       (6) Moderate Impact Institutional: Public
                       or private junior college, technical
                       institute, professional school; vocational
                       schools; job training and vocational
S  S  S  S       S    rehabilitation services; sheltered          
                       workshop; nursing and similar residential
                       care facilities (for more than 5
                       residents); residential care facilities
                       for more than 5 residents; group homes for
                       more than 6 residents
                       (8) Indoor Cultural: Art gallery; museum;
S  S  S  S       S    planetarium; aquarium; indoor cultural      
                       facilities
                       (15) Restricted Light Utility: Pipelines
                       for subsections other than natural gas or
                       water; electricity regulating substation;
S  S  S  S       S    natural gas transmission facilities/        
                       pressure control station; water storage
                       facility/pressure control station; sewage
                       pressure control station
                       (16) General Light Utility And Public
                       Protection: Ambulance service; garbage and
                       refuse collecting and transporting service
                       facility, excluding disposal; telephone
                       company service facility with garaging,     
S  S  S  S       S    maintenance, and storage; electric company  
                       service facility with garaging,
                       maintenance, and storage; gas company
                       service facility with garaging,
                       maintenance, and storage; utility
                       services; police station; fire station
 
(Ord. 5973, 5-13-2002; amd. Ord. 6194, 10-13-2014; Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018; Ord.
6275, 2-10-2020)
11-6-3: AREA AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   
Table 11-6-3.1, Residential Area Standards: Every residential use in a
residential district shall be subject to the lot width, lot area, and density
requirements set forth in
table 11-6-3.1, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, and in
sections
11-5-7A and
11-14-1 of this title.
TABLE 11-6-3.1, RESIDENTIAL AREA STANDARDS
 Minimum Lot Width                      Intensity
 (Feet)                                 (Minimum Square Feet Lot Area Based On Number Of  Maximum
                                Minimum Dwelling Units)                                   Permitted
                                Lot                                                       Gross
                                Area                                                      Density
 One      Two      3 & 4  Other (Sq.    Single   Two      3 & 4                           (Dwelling
 Dwelling Dwelling Family Uses  Ft)     Dwelling Dwelling Family     Nonresidential Other Units
 Unit     Units    Units                Unit     Units    Residences                      Per Acre)
        Minimum Lot Width                       Intensity
        (Feet)                                  (Minimum Square Feet Lot Area Based On Number Of   Maximum
                                        Minimum Dwelling Units)                                    Permitted
                                        Lot                                                        Gross
                                        Area                                                       Density
        One      Two      3 & 4  Other  (Sq.    Single   Two      3 & 4                            (Dwelling
        Dwelling Dwelling Family Uses   Ft)     Dwelling Dwelling Family     Nonresidential Other  Units
        Unit     Units    Units                 Unit     Units    Residences                       Per Acre)


        50' @                    100' @
        BL, must                 BL,
   R-abut                   must   7,200   7,200                                          6
        street                   abut
        45'                      street
                                 45'
        50' @    50' @           100' @
        BL, must BL, must        BL,
   R-abut     abut           must   6,000   6,000    7,200                                  7
        street   street          abut
        45'      45'             street
                                 45'
        50' @    50' @    60' @
        BL, must BL, must BL,
   R-abut     abut     must   100'   5,000   5,000    6,000    7,200      7,200          14,400 16
        street   street   abut
        45'      45'      street
                          45'
        50' @    50' @    60' @
        BL, must BL, must BL,
   R-abut     abut     must   100'   5,000   5,000    5,000    7,200      7,200          14,400 --
        street   street   abut
        45'      45'      street
                          45'
                                                                                                   8/acre
                                        3,500                                                      minimum
   RM30'                    --     per     --       --       --         --             --     dev.
                                        space                                                      area, 5
                                                                                                   acres
                                                                                                   6/acre
   RM50'                          6,000   6,000    5,000    --         --             --     minimum
                                                                                                   dev. area
                                                                                                   5 acres
 
   B.   
Table 11-6-3.2, Residential Bulk Standards: Every residential use in a
residential district shall be subject to the yard, lot coverage, and height
requirements set forth in
table 11-6-3.2, except as otherwise provided in this subsection and in sections
11-5-7A and
11-14-1 of this title. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
TABLE 11-6-3.2, RESIDENTIAL BULK STANDARDS
         Minimum Yards                             Maximum Lot
District Front1           Side1                    Coverage          Maximum
                                           Rear1,3                   Height 1
         Corner2 Interior Corner2 Interior         Corner1 Interior1
         Minimum Yards                                    Maximum Lot
         Front1                Side1                      Coverage          Maximum
District                                        Rear1,3                     Height
         Corner2    Interior   Corner2 Interior           Corner1 Interior1 1

                                                20' or                      21/
                                                25% of                      2
R-1      20'        25'        20'     6'       depth     40%     40%       stories
                                                whichever                   or 35'
                                                is less
                                                20' on                      21/
R-2      20'        25'        20'     6'       corner or 40%     40%       2
                                                interior                    stories
                                                lot                         or 35'
                                                10' on                      21/
R-2M     20'        25'        20'     6'       corner or 40%     40%       2
                                                interior                    stories
                                                lot                         or 35'
                                                10' on                      21/
R-3      20'        25'        20'     6'       corner or 40%     40%       2
                                                interior                    stories
                                                lot                         or 35'
         35' from   35' from                                                21/
RMHP     centerline centerline 10'     10'      10'       40%     40%       2
         of access  of access                                               stories
         drive      drive                                                   or 35'
                                                                            21/
RMHS     25'        25'        20'     6'       15'       40%     40%       2
                                                                            stories
                                                                            or 35'
 
Notes:
    1.    For accessory buildings and structures, reference subsection 11-5-1D,
"Bulk Standards", of this title.
    2.    Houses on a corner shall be considered as having 2 front yards, and
shall meet the front yard requirements on both corners.
    3.    Rear yards for Nonnamaker Addition, blocks 3 and 4, shall have a
depth of 15 feet or 25 percent of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller.
(Ord. 6170, 5-13-2013)
All uses shall contain adequate space on private property to provide for
parking, loading and maneuvering vehicles.
All lighting shall be arranged so there will be no annoying glare directed or
reflected toward adjacent property.
   C.   Zero Lot Line Developments: No interior side yard is required on one
side for zero lot line and semidetached single-family dwellings in the
districts where permitted. The opposite side yard for zero lot line dwellings
shall not be less than twelve feet (12'). (See section
11-5-7 of this title.)
   D.   Yard, Lot And Height: All principal uses, other than dwellings, in any
residential district, shall be subject to the following requirements except as
otherwise provided in sections
11-5-4 and
11-14-1 of this title.
      1.   Minimum yards: Twenty five feet (25') on all sides.
      2.   Maximum lot coverage: As set forth in
table 11-6-3.2 of this section for the respective districts.
      3.   Maximum height: As set forth in
table 11-6-3.2 of this section for the respective districts.
   E.   Multi-Family Parking Areas: Multi-family parking areas shall be
screened from surrounding uses by a six foot (6') sightproof fence. Lighting
for multi-family parking lots shall be designed such that it will not
illuminate surrounding uses (see section
11-7-4 of this title). (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: General Description
11-7-2: Permitted Uses; Table
11-7-3: Area And Bulk Standards
11-7-4: Sightproof Screening
11-7-5: Parking Lot Lighting
11-7-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Purpose Of Regulations: The regulations for commercial districts are
designed to:
      1.   Provide areas in which business may be conducted, goods sold and
distributed, services rendered, and such other activities related to the
function of commercial development;
      2.   Fulfill the need for shopping areas that range in size and function
from minor commercial centers to the central business district, the locations
of which are delineated by the master plan;
      3.   Relate functional differences in the various types of commercial
uses to the appropriate land use intensities and relationships; and
      4.   Ensure compatibility of the various commercial areas within the city
infrastructure.
   B.   Districts Described: The individual commercial districts are described
as follows: (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      1.   C-1 Local Commercial District: As a neighborhood center for
convenience shopping, the C-1 district is designed to provide locations for the
conduct of retail trade and personal service enterprises to meet the regular
needs of nearby residential areas, as well as to permit some businesses which
may also serve the entire city. Hours of operation are generally limited to
daylight and early evening and activities associated with these uses generally
occur entirely within the building, with limited outside storage of goods and
materials. Local commercial uses shall typically generate low to medium
vehicular and pedestrian traffic and produce minimal objectionable elements
into the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 6145, 10-10-2011)
      2.   C-2 General Commercial District: The C-2 district is intended for
the conduct of general business to which the public requires frequent and
direct access, but which is not characterized by either constant heavy trucking
other than stocking and delivery of retail goods, or by any nuisance factors
other than occasioned by the congregating of people and passenger vehicles. It
is encouraged that the compatible business enterprises concentrate to the
mutual benefit of consumers and merchants.
      3.   CBD Central Business District: The CBD district is intended to
provide a pedestrian oriented concentration of mixed uses allowing for a wide
range of commercial, residential, office, and limited light industrial uses.
There may be limited off street parking requirements. Convenience shopping and
the stability of retail development are promoted by encouraging continuous
retail frontage. It is intended for the downtown core to facilitate the
adaptation of existing buildings to a more vital mixture of uses while
conserving the exterior quality of and era of historic significance.
         a.   Legal Description: The legal description of this area is as
follows: Donahoes Addition, Blocks 1, 26, 27, 28, and Block 25, Lots 1 through
5; Myatts Addition, Blocks 13, 14, 25, and 26; Townsite of Hartman, Block 32,
Lots 11-20, Blocks 33-41, and Blocks 46-50; and, Townsite of Lynchville, Blocks
3-7. All of the above stated additions, blocks, and lots are contiguous and are
located within the city limits of Ponca City, Kay County, Oklahoma.
         b.   Allowed Uses: See section
11-7-2,
table 11-7-2.1, "Uses Permitted In Commercial Districts", of this chapter.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Accessory Uses: The following uses are permitted, subject to review:
      1.   General accessory structures.
      2.   Accessory uses with specific regulations:
         a.   Fence:
            (1)   Stockade fencing, chainlink fencing with opaque materials
inserted/woven between the fence material, and sightproof metal fencing are not
permitted; however, stockade fencing and chainlink fencing with the insertions/
weaving may be used for the screening of dumpsters.
         b.   Business signs and outdoor advertising signs may be erected in
front of the building setback lines in accordance with the following
provisions:
            (1)   One square foot of display surface area per each lineal foot
of street frontage per floor is permitted; or a maximum of ten percent (10%) of
the building facade square footage.
            (2)   Overhanging signs may extend over the public right of way to
within two feet (2') of the curb line perpendicular, and must also be a minimum
of nine feet (9') from the grade level.
   D.   Development Regulations:
      1.   Site Design Requirements:
         a.   Height: The maximum building height, including any structure on
top of a building, shall not exceed sixty feet (60'); provided, the planning
commission may approve a building height above sixty feet (60'), but not
exceeding eighty feet (80'), if the proposed building is compatible with the
scale, width and bulk of existing buildings located on the same block and
across the street.
         b.   Yard Requirements: No yards required for front, side, or rear.
         c.   Parking Lots: Parking lots in the CBD shall be landscaped in
accordance with the landscaping standards as set forth in section
11-14-3 of this title.
      2.   Outside Storage:
         a.   Material stored outside and visible from an abutting street shall
be screened from the abutting street in accordance with subsection D2b of this
section.
         b.   Dumpsters and other commercial waste collection receptacles shall
be sightproof screened from view on all sides of the dumpsters. A building,
fence, vegetation, or other form of screening shall satisfy this requirement.
   E.   Design Review Process: A certificate of approval from the Ponca City
Main Street design committee shall be required prior to obtaining a building
permit from the community development department to begin work on the
following:
      1.   The construction of any new building, whether preengineered or site
built.
      2.   The total or partial demolition of any (main) structure.
The design committee, when considering applications for a certificate of
approval, shall base its decisions upon the design guidelines as contained
below. An applicant may appeal the decision of the committee to the planning
commission, which can affirm, reverse, or modify the decision. Any appeal shall
be made in writing to the community development director within twenty (20)
days following the decision by the design committee. Final appeals may be made
to the mayor and board of commissioners.
   F.   General Design Guidelines: The following design guidelines are advisory
and intended to serve as a reference for any person or entity contemplating the
construction, renovation, remodel, or restoration of any building located
within the CBD. The Ponca City Main Street design committee may provide
technical assistance for any such work.
      1.   Setbacks for new buildings and additions to buildings should be in
keeping with other buildings on the block; normally, new buildings should be
located in the front and side property lines. Where new buildings are not
situated on the front and/or side property lines, the setback area should be
designed and landscaped so as to complement the existing facilities within the
core area. The historic character and texture of the area is best served
through the observance of platted building property lines.
      2.   Original building facades are an established and a critical
characteristic of the CBD. New and renovated facades should enhance or
complement this characteristic. The design and construction of new buildings
should incorporate facade elements that are consistent with and otherwise
enhance these same characteristics.
      3.   Buildings should have the appearance of a flat roof from the ground,
and parapets should hide pitched roofs. Roofs with other appearance should be
closely reviewed for the districts' architectural improvement and for design
impact on the district and adjacent structures.
      4.   Window alignment and type should be compatible with adjacent
buildings. During and after the restoration and renovation of window openings,
the windows should be set in two inches (2") to three inches (3") from the
facade front.
      5.   Original window, door, and freight bay door openings should be
reestablished during renovations, on a story level by story level basis for
those stories included within a building permit application, if these openings
have been blocked in with wood, brick or other materials. Doors, windows and
freight bay doors should not typically be blocked in with brick and panels. For
example, one of the compatible styles of closure for freight bay doors would
resemble a tongue and groove wooden warehouse door.
      6.   Existing brick surfaces should not be covered with paint, wood,
plastic, metal, or other materials. This shall not apply to historic signage,
as these may be restored with paint. The preferred method of signage of
buildings is the attached sign mounted on the building.
      7.   The removal of paint from a facade should utilize a method which is
known not to damage the brick, brick glazing, or stucco. Sandblasting would not
generally be considered an appropriate method of paint removal for brick
surfaces.
      8.   Facades should be designed or renovated with a design that is
compatible with the older and historic buildings common to the area. Facade
designs to be discouraged include those characterized by mirrored glass; panel
walls made of glass, plastic or metal; smooth steel or smooth composite walls;
or prefabricated tilt up concrete walls. Historic building ornamentation should
not be removed or covered.
      9.   A building recognized locally or nationally for its architectural or
historical significance should not be demolished unless there is no reasonable
economic alternative.
      10.   Rooftop accessory and rooftop nonaccessory signs may be appropriate
if designed as a landmark that conveys a message or logo enhancing the identity
of the district.
      11.   Nonaccessory signs serving as local directional signs for patrons
of the CBD may be utilized on a limited basis, such as two (2) per geographic
block. The display surface should not exceed twelve (12) square feet per sign.
Styles of lettering commonly used around the 1920s are recommended. Wall and
ground signs constructed of wood and/or metal are preferred.
      12.   Sightproof screening may include natural or manmade materials and
the design should yield a screen that is durable. When the material used is not
vegetation, brick or stone, the surface should be painted or otherwise coated
in a uniform color.
      13.   Street frontages of parking lots are highly visible and the lot
boundaries can be designed to create security, a pleasant environment, and an
obscured view of both debris and parked vehicles. The addition of landscaping
can provide beneficial microclimatic effects. (Ord. 5992, 10-27-2003)
11-7-2: PERMITTED USES; TABLE:
Uses permitted in the various commercial districts are as set forth in
table 11-7-2.1 of this section. Meanings of symbols and references in the table
are as follows:
   A.   Where an "X" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "X" is permitted as a use of right in that district;
   B.   Where an "S" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "S" is permitted only through the approval of a
special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-4 of this title;
   C.   The letters preceding the general land use classifications, and the
numbers preceding the individual use categories relate directly to the
corresponding system of identification in section
11-4-2 of this title; and
   D.   Where a cross reference number appears in the "reference" column to the
right of a particular use category, that category is subject to the
requirements set forth in that section of this title, or other location in this
code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
TABLE 11-7-2.1, USES PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
C-1 C-2 CBD Uses Reference
C-1 C-2 CBD Uses                                                     Reference
               (B) RESIDENTIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2B)                
X   X   X   (1) Detached conventional single-family                   
X   X   X   (9) Two-family                                            
            (7) Group homes: homes for the deaf or blind; homes for
X   X   X   the mentally handicapped; homes for the physically       11-5-6C
            handicapped and developmentally disabled
            (8) Residential care/rehabilitative centers includes
            community residential facilities serving persons in
S   S   S   drug, alcohol, juvenile, child, parole, family shelters, 11-5-6D
            battered spouse shelters, halfway houses, and other
            programs of treatment, care supervision, or
            rehabilitation in a residential setting
   X   X   (10) General multiple-family                              
X   X   X   (11) Condominium                                          
            (13) Group quarters: rooming and boarding houses;
   X   X   dormitories; organization hotels and lodging houses       
            (membership basis); fraternity and sorority houses
X   X   X   (14) Limited mixed use                                   11-5-8
X   X   X   Bed and breakfast homes                                  11-5-1B3
               (C) COMMERCIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2C)                 
            (1) Administrative and professional offices: insurance
            offices; real estate offices; investment offices; legal
X   X   X   services; individual, family, and organizational social   
            services; engineering, architectural, planning, and
            surveying services; accounting, auditing and
            bookkeeping; offices
   S      (2) Adult entertainment uses                             11-2-2 and
                                                                     11-5-1B2
            (3) Research services: research and development
   X   X   laboratories; commercial testing laboratories;            
            noncommercial educational, scientific, and social
            research organization
            (4) Business support services: farm labor and management
            services; advertising agencies; consumer credit and
            mercantile reporting and collection agencies;
            blueprinting and photocopying; commercial photography,
            art and graphics services; stenographic services; news
            syndicates; personnel services; computer and data
            processing services; management consulting, and public
X   X   X   relations services; detective agencies and protective     
            services; business machines rental and repair; photo
            finishing laboratories; trading stamp service;
            auctioneering service (commission or fee basis); bail
            bonding; inventory computing; merchandise liquidator
            (contract basis); music distribution service (noncoin
            operated); repossession service; sign painting and
            lettering service; telephone answering service; medical
            and dental laboratories
            (5) Convenience sales and personal services:
            delicatessen; convenience grocery store; self- service
            postal facilities (indoor); news dealer and self-service
X   X   X   newspaper vending machines (indoor); automatic teller    11-4-2C5
            machine (indoor); garment pressing, and agents for
            laundries and dry cleaners; self-service laundry and
            cleaning; tailor shop; beauty and barber shops
X   X   X   (6) Child daycare center: baby sitting bureau; daycare   11-5-6B
            center; nursery and preschools
X   X   X   (7) Restricted medical services: medical, dental, and     
            other health practitioner offices
            (8) General medical services and sales and pharmacy:
X   X   X   orthopedic, medical appliances, surgical, and dental      
            supply stores; outpatient care facility; health and
            allied services
            (9) Medical marijuana dispensary: medical marijuana
   X      dispensaries licensed under title 63, section 421 of the 11-5-5-5
            Oklahoma Statutes
X   X   X   (10) Restricted funeral and interment services: funeral   
            homes, mortuaries, and undertakers
   X   S   (11) General funeral and interment services: cemeteries,  
            crematoriums, columbariums and mausoleums
X   X   X   (12) Laundry services: laundry, dry cleaning, garment,    
            and supply services
            (13) Product repair services: shoe repair and shine
            shops; hat cleaning shop; radio and television repair
X   X   X   shops; household appliance repair; watch, clock, and      
            jewelry repair; reupholstery and furniture repair; light
            welding repair; armature rewinding shop; bicycle repair
            shop; miscellaneous repair shops
            (14) Restricted consumer services: travel agency;
            photographic portrait studio; health clubs, spas, and
            reducing salons; rental of items for personal use;
            miscellaneous personal services; photocopy service;
            personal investigation service; recording studio;
X   X   X   taxidermist; correspondence school; data processing       
            school; business and secretarial schools; fine arts
            studio for professional work or teaching of art,
            photography, music, drama, or dance; miscellaneous
            educational services; miscellaneous social services;
            miscellaneous religious organizations; membership
            organizations
            (15) General consumer services: newspaper publishing;
            commercial job printing; postal service; transportation
X   X   X   company business office; communication company business   
            office; utility company business office; banks, savings
            and loan, and credit agencies; car title and tag
            services
            (16) Retail food and beverage sales: grocery store; meat
X   X   X   and fish market (indoor); fruit and vegetable market      
            (indoor); confectionery store; dairy products store;
            bakery; catering service; ice dealer
S   X   X   (17) Retail alcoholic beverage sales: package liquor     11-5-5
            store
X   X   X   (18) Restricted eating establishments: cafeteria; coffee  
            shop; restaurant
   X   X   (19) Eating establishments permitting alcoholic          11-5-5
            beverages: restaurants and private clubs
   X   X   (20) Drinking establishments: bars, taverns, night clubs 11-5-5
   X   X   (21) In vehicle sales and service: restaurant with       11-5-1B27
            drive-up window; drive-in restaurant
            (21) In vehicle sales and service: financial
            institutions with drive-up window or remote teller
X   X   X   device; laundry and cleaning establishments with drive-  11-5-1B27
            up window; photographic film sales and developing
            service with drive-up window; miscellaneous in vehicle
            sales and service
            (22) Specialty retail sales, automobile parts and
            accessories: apparel and clothing accessories; furniture
            and accessory home furnishings; household appliances;
            radio and television stores; music store; sporting goods
            and bicycle dealers; bookstore; stationery and office
X   X   X   supplies; jewelry store; hobby, toy, and game shops;      
            gift, novelty, and souvenir shops; luggage and leather
            goods; sewing, needlework and piece goods stores;
            florist shop; tobacco products and accessories; office
            equipment, furniture and supplies; art and architectural
            supplies; pet shop; business machine dealer;
            miscellaneous specialty retail sales
            (23) General merchandise sales: department, variety, and
X   X   X   general merchandise stores; mail order, catalog, and      
            direct delivery establishments
            (24) Indoor used merchandise sales: antique store;
X   X   X   pawnshop; miscellaneous used merchandise sales; auction   
            rooms (retail, general merchandise)
   X   S   (25) Outdoor sales: plant nursery; farm produce market;   
            flea market
            (26) Home improvement sales and services: home
            improvement center; paint, glass, and wallpaper stores;
X   X   X   hardware store; lawn and garden supply store; floor       
            covering store; drapery, curtain, and upholstery stores.
            Less than 25 percent of area of principal building in
            outdoor storage.
            (27) Construction sales and services: building
            construction contractor; heavy construction general
            contractor; electrical, plumbing, heating, carpentry,
   X   S   masonry, and other special building trade contractor;     
            lumber and other building materials dealer; used
            building materials dealer. 25 percent or greater area of
            principal building in outdoor storage.
            (28) General maintenance services: ornamental shrub and
            tree service; window cleaning; disinfecting and
   X   X   exterminating services; janitorial services (contract     
            basis); miscellaneous cleaning and maintenance services;
            vending machine supply and services; bottled liquefied
            petroleum gas dealer
            (30) Agricultural supplies and services: soil
   X   X   preparation service; crop planting, cultivation,          
            protection, harvesting services; forestry services; farm
            supplies, feed, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals
X   X   X   (31) Low impact animal services: small animal hospital   11-5-10
            or veterinary clinic; pet grooming and training (indoor)
            (32) High impact animal services: large animal
   X      hospitals, and small animal hospitals with outdoor       11-5-10
            kennels; livestock services; boarding kennels; animal
            training (outdoor)
   X   X   (33) Light vehicle sales and rentals: automobile dealer;  
            motorcycle dealer
            (34) Moderate vehicle sales and rentals: boat dealer;
   X   X   truck dealer; mobile home dealer; recreational and        
            utility trailer dealer; motor home dealer
            (35) Heavy vehicle sales and rentals: construction and
   X   S   mining machinery and equipment; farm and garden           
            machinery and equipment; aircraft dealer; truck dealer
   X   X   (36) Gasoline service station                             
   X   X   (37) Gasoline station with convenience store              
   S      (38) Truck stop                                           
            (39) Light motor vehicle maintenance: automotive trim
            and upholstery shops; tire service; mechanical
            automotive repair shops; exhaust system service; glass
   X   X   replacement shop; radiator repair shop; transmission      
            service; wheel alignment service; motor vehicle washing
            facility (self-service or automatic); automotive
            diagnostic and inspection services; motorcycle repair
            shop
            (40) Heavy motor vehicle maintenance: motor vehicle
            passenger transportation maintenance facilities; boat
   X   S   repair shop; aircraft service and repair facilities;      
            automotive body and paint shops; major engine overhaul
            facilities; automotive repair shops; farm machinery
            repair shops
   X      (41) Outdoor vehicle storage: storage yard for operable   
            buses, trucks or recreational vehicles as principal use
            (41) Outdoor vehicle storage/impoundment yard: storage
            yard for automotive towing service with impoundment yard
         for operable buses; trucks or recreational vehicles as    
            principal use; automotive towing service with
            impoundment yard
X   X   X   (42) Automobile parking: automobile parking lots and     Chapter 13
            structures as principal use
   X   S   (43) Personal storage warehouse: personal storage         
            miniwarehouse
            (45) Indoor participant recreation and entertainment:
            dance hall, ballroom; billiard and pool establishments;
   X   X   bowling alley; amusement arcade; membership sports and    
            recreation facilities (indoor); table game parlor; ice
            or roller skating rinks; indoor amusement and recreation
            services
            (46) Outdoor participant recreation and entertainment:
   X      amusement park; membership sports and recreation          
            facilities (outdoor); miniature golf, driving range
   X   X   (47) Indoor commercial lodging: hotel, motel              
   S      (48) Outdoor commercial lodging: recreational vehicle     
            park and campsites
            (49) Restricted impact indoor spectator sports and
X   X   X   entertainment: drama/music facilities and spectator       
            sports arena; motion picture theater; civic, social, and
            fraternal organizations
            (50) Intensive impact indoor spectator sports and
   X   X   entertainment: drama/music facilities and spectator       
            sports arena
            (51) Outdoor spectator sports and entertainment: open
   S      air drama/music facilities; spectator sports stadium;     
            racing or driving tracks of any kind
               (D) INDUSTRIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2D)                 
            (1) Custom handicraft production: apparel and other hand
            sewn fabric products; wood products; hand fabricated
            leather products; cut or fabricated wood products; hand
   X   X   fabricated pottery products; fabricated metal novelty     
            products; precious metal jewelry; costume jewelry and
            novelties, and miscellaneous notions; candles;
            miscellaneous art and handicraft fabrication or
            processing
            (2) Restricted indoor warehousing: local trucking with
            storage; farm product storage (excluding elevators and
            refrigerated); packing, crating, moving, and storage of
   S   S   household goods; general warehousing and storage;         
            freight trucking terminal; wholesale distribution of
            durable goods; wholesale distribution of nondurable
            goods
            (3) General indoor warehousing: local trucking with
            storage; farm product storage (excluding elevators);
            refrigerated warehousing, commercial food locker;
      S   packing, crating, moving, and storage of household        
            goods; general warehousing and storage; freight trucking
            terminal; wholesale distribution of durable goods;
            wholesale distribution of nondurable goods
            (5) Low impact manufacturing and processing: dairy
            products; canned and preserved fruits and vegetables;
            bakery products; sugar and confectionery products; fats
            and oils; bottled and canned soft drinks and carbonated
            waters; flavoring extracts and syrups; miscellaneous
            food preparations and related products; ice plant;
            apparel and other finished fabric products; cabinetry;
            furniture and fixtures; printing, publishing, and allied
            industries; glass products made of purchased glass;
            fabricated, leather goods; clay product pottery and
            figurines; fabricated structural metal products;
            electronic computing equipment; electrical and
      S   electronic machinery, equipment and supplies (assembly    
            only); phonograph records and prerecorded magnetic tape;
            engineering, laboratory, scientific, and research
            instruments; measuring and controlling instruments;
            optical instruments and lenses; surgical, medical, and
            dental instruments and supplies; ophthalmic goods;
            photographic equipment and supplies; watches, clocks,
            and similar devices and parts; precious metal jewelry
            and lapidary materials; musical instruments; toys,
            games, amusement, sporting, and athletic goods; office,
            drafting, and artists materials; costume jewelry,
            costume novelties, buttons, and miscellaneous notions;
            signs and advertising displays; heavy welding repair,
            blacksmith shop
               (E) INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORIES (11-4-2E)             
X   X   X   (1) Government: government offices; Municipal facilities  
            and activities
      S   (2) Public education: public elementary and secondary     
            schools; public libraries and information centers
            (3) Restricted community recreation and food
            productions: community gardens available for public use
   X   X   on a prearranged basis; public golf course; passive       
            recreation park; active recreation park or playground
            (no night lighting)
            (4) Intensive community recreation: outdoor public
      S   participant sports park or playground (with night         
            lighting); indoor public recreation facilities
            (5) Low impact institutional: private elementary and
            secondary schools; private libraries and information
S   X   S   centers; nursing and similar care facilities (for 5 or    
            fewer residents); church, chapel, synagogue, or other
            place of worship; convent, monastery, religious school
            (6) Moderate impact institutional: public or private
            junior college; technical institute, professional
      S   school; vocational schools; job training and vocational   
            rehabilitation services; nursing and similar care
            facilities (for more than 5 residents)
   S   S   (7) High impact institutional: college or university;     
            hospitals
X   X   X   (8) Indoor cultural: art gallery; museum; planetarium;    
            aquarium; indoor cultural facilities
   X   X   (9) Outdoor cultural: arboreta, botanical, and            
            zoological gardens; outdoor cultural facilities
            (10) Surface passenger transportation: local bus line
            operation office; local airport transportation service
   X   X   office; taxicab operation office; intercity/interstate    
            bus line office; charter bus service office; school bus
            company office; bus terminal operation
            (11) Surface freight transportation: railroad
         transportation facilities and services; local trucking    
            without storage; long distance trucking
         (12) Aircraft transportation: aircraft transportation     
            facilities and airfield services
            (13) Communication services: telephone exchange
            buildings and relay stations without garaging,
S   X   S   maintenance, or storage facilities; telegraph services;   
            radio broadcasting station; television broadcasting or
            translator stations; communication services
S   S   S   (14) Communication towers: telephone/telegraph           11-5-2
            transmission microwave tower; communication towers
            (15) Restricted light utility: pipelines for substations
            other than natural gas or water; electricity regulating
S   S   S   substation; natural gas transmission facilities/pressure  
            control station; water storage facility/pressure control
            station; sewage pressure control station
            (16) General light utility: garbage and refuse
            collecting and transporting service facility, excluding
            disposal; telephone company service facility with
   S   S   garaging, maintenance, and storage; electric company      
            service facility with garaging, maintenance, and
            storage; gas company service facility with garaging,
            maintenance, and storage; utility services
X   X   X   (16) General light utility and public protection:         
            ambulance service; police station; fire station
 
(Ord. 6145, 10-10-2011; amd. Ord. 6194, 10-13-2014; Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
11-7-3: AREA AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Nonresidential Areas: Nonresidential uses in the commercial districts
shall not be subject to specific lot width, lot area, or height requirements
except as provided in this section and in section
11-14-1 of this title.
   B.   
Table 11-7-3.1, Commercial Bulk Standards: Every nonresidential use in a
commercial district shall be subject to the yard and lot coverage requirements
set forth in
table 11-7-3.1 of this section, except as otherwise provided in this subsection
and in section
11-14-1 of this title.
TABLE 11-7-3.1, COMMERCIAL BULK STANDARDS
 
       Minimum Yards (Feet) (1)
                Side                                          Rear (2) (When
                Interior (When                                abutting indicated     Maximum
       Front    abutting indicated     Corner                 district or across     Lot
       Interior district or across                            alley or easement)     Coverage
       (1)      alley or easement)                                                   (Percent)
                                       Commercial
                Commercial Residential Or         Residential Commercial Residential
                                       Industrial
   C   25    0       6        15      15       0       15       30
   C   0     0       0        0       0        0       0        100
   C   25    0       15       15      15       0       15       30
 
      1.   New residential development in commercial district shall meet same
requirements as R-3.
      2.   Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the rear, there
shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard, or combination thereof
not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
   C.   Residential Uses: Residential uses shall not be permitted on the same
lot as a commercial use, except as provided in chapter 10 and section
11-5-8 of this title. Residential uses otherwise located in a commercial
district shall be subject to the area and bulk requirements of the R-
3 district. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-7-4: SIGHTPROOF SCREENING:
Sightproof screening is required in any commercial lot which is located
adjacent to or contiguous to a lot zoned residential. Commercial uses shall be
screened from residential uses by a six foot (6') sightproof fence. "Sightproof
fence" shall mean a solid, nonopaque surface designed to prevent light from
passing onto the adjacent lots. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-7-5: PARKING LOT LIGHTING:
Parking lot lighting constructed on any commercial lot for the purpose of
lighting parking and access areas, or for security purposes, shall be designed
and installed so that it will not illuminate adjacent lots. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-
1999)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: General Description
11-8-2: Permitted Uses; Table
11-8-3: Area And Bulk Standards
11-8-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Purpose Of Regulations: The regulations of industrial districts are
designed to:
      1.   Meet the needs of the area's industrial economy by making available
a wide range of suitable sites for most types of warehousing, manufacturing,
assembly, repair, testing, research, and related activities;
      2.   Reserve such sites for industrial use by protecting them from
encroachment by nonindustrial uses;
      3.   Differentiate between levels of industrial use intensity,
objectionable influences, and requirements with respect to the city
transportation and utility infrastructure; and
      4.   Provide for the use of the less intensive industrial districts as
buffers between residential districts and more intensive industrial districts.
   B.   Districts Described: The individual districts are described as follows:
      1.   I-P Industrial Park District: The I-P district is intended primarily
to provide an environment conducive to the development and protection of modern
administrative facilities, research institutions, specialized manufacturing
plants, and similar enterprises whose operations are contained entirely within
buildings, and which are ordinarily free of environmental nuisances, and may be
appropriately located together in a visually compatible setting.
      2.   I-1 Light Industrial District: The I-1 light industrial district is
intended as an area in which light manufacturing, warehousing and wholesale
servicing may be conducted but would not include the use of any material that
would create a danger to the surrounding area through fires, explosion, noise,
dust, smoke, odor, or water pollution.
      3.   I-2 Moderate Industrial District: This industrial district is
intended primarily for the conduct of light manufacturing, assembling, and
fabrication, and for warehousing, wholesale, and service uses which may
generate relatively low levels of noise, odor, smoke, dust, or intense light.
Industrial uses permitted may require good accessibility to air, rail or street
transportation routes, but do not depend heavily on frequent personal visits of
customers or clients. Provision is also made for outdoor operations, display,
and storage.
      4.   I-3 Heavy Industrial District: In the I-3 heavy industrial district,
it is intended that the land be used for heavy industrial and commercial
enterprises which would, through necessary and unavoidable processes, create
nuisance that would not be in harmony with residential and business. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
11-8-2: PERMITTED USES; TABLE:
Uses permitted in the various industrial districts are as set forth in
table 11-8-2.1. Meanings of symbols and references in the table are as follows:
   A.   Where an "X" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "X" is permitted as a use of right in that district;
   B.   Where an "S" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "S" is permitted only through the approval of a
special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-4 of this title;
   C.   The letters preceding the general land use classifications, and the
numbers preceding the individual use categories, relate directly to the
corresponding system of identification in section
11-4-2 of this title; and
   D.   Where a cross reference number appears in the "Reference" column to the
right of a particular use category, that category is subject to the
requirements set forth in that section of this title or other location in the
city code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
TABLE 11-8-2.1, USES PERMITTED IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
I-P I-1 I-2 I-3 Uses Section
                     Reference
I-P I-1 I-2 I-3 Uses                                              Section
                                                                  Reference
                   (A) RESOURCE CATEGORIES (11-4-2A)            
                (1) Restricted Horticulture: Ornamental
X   X   X   X   floriculture and nursery products (no building or  
                structure)
                (2) General Horticulture: Ornamental floriculture
X   X   X   X   and nursery products (including building or        
                greenhouse); food crops grown under cover
      X   X   (3) Crop Production: Field crops; vegetables and   
                melons; fruits and tree nuts
      X   X   (5) Livestock Production: Livestock grazing and      
                accessory facilities                              11-5-10
      X   X   (6) Animal Specialties: Dairy farms; poultry and     
                eggs; animal specialties                          11-5-10
   X   X   X   (7) On Premises Agricultural Processing: Crop      
                preparation for market (on premises)
   X   X   X   (8) Off Premises Agricultural Processing: Crop     
                preparation for market (off premises)
                (10) Mineral And Raw Material Mining: Stone; sand
   S   S   S   and gravel; clay, ceramic, and refractory          
                minerals; miscellaneous nonmetallic minerals
                   (B) RESIDENTIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2B)         
   S   S      (1) Detached conventional single-family (5)          11-5-6C
                modular home
                (8) Residential Care/Rehabilitative Centers:
                Includes community residential facilities serving
                persons in drug, alcohol, juvenile, child,
   S   S      parole, family shelters, battered spouse             11-5-6D
                shelters, halfway houses, and other programs of
                treatment, care supervision, or rehabilitation in
                a residential setting
                   (C) COMMERCIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2C)          
                (1) Administrative And Professional Offices:
                Insurance offices; real estate offices;
                investment offices; legal services; individual,
X   X   X   X   family, and organizational social services;        
                engineering, architectural, planning, and
                surveying services; accounting, auditing and
                bookkeeping; offices
                (3) Research Services: Research and development
X   X   X   X   laboratories; commercial testing laboratories;     
                noncommercial educational, scientific, and social
                research organization
                (4) Business Support Services: Farm labor and
                management services; advertising agencies;
                consumer credit and mercantile reporting, and
                collection agencies; blueprinting and
                photocopying; commercial photography, art, and
                graphics services; stenographic services; news
                syndicates; personnel services; computer and data
                processing services; management, consulting, and
X   X   X   X   public relations services; detective agencies and  
                protective services; business machines rental and
                repair; photo finishing laboratories; trading
                stamp service; auctioneering service (commission
                or fee basis); bail bonding; inventory computing;
                merchandise liquidator (contract basis); music
                distribution service (noncoin operated);
                repossession service; sign painting and lettering
                service; telephone answering service; medical and
                dental laboratories
                (6) Child Daycare Center: Baby sitting bureau;
   S   S      daycare center; nursery and preschools (intended     11-5-6B
                for employee use, may be internal to firm or as a
                separate use)
   X   X   X   (12) Laundry Services: Laundry, dry cleaning,      
                garment, and supply services
                (13) Product Repair Services: Shoe repair and
                shine shops; hat cleaning shop; radio and
                television repair shops; household appliance
S   X   X   X   repair; watch, clock, and jewelry repair;          
                upholstery and furniture repair light welding
                repair; armature rewinding shop; bicycle repair
                shop; miscellaneous repair shops
                (14) Restricted Consumer Services: Travel agency;
                photographic portrait studio; health clubs, spas,
                and reducing salons; rental of items for personal
                use; miscellaneous personal services; photocopy
                service; personal investigation service;
                recording studio; taxidermist; correspondence
   S   S      school; data processing school; business and       
                secretarial schools; fine arts studio for
                professional work or teaching of art,
                photography, music, drama, or dance;
                miscellaneous educational services; miscellaneous
                social services; miscellaneous religious
                organizations; membership organizations
X   X   X   X   (18) Restricted Eating Establishments: Cafeteria;  
                coffee shop; restaurant
                (24) Indoor Used Merchandise Sales: Antique
   S   S   S   store; pawnshop; miscellaneous used merchandise    
                sales; auction rooms (retail, general
                merchandise)
   S   S   S   (25) Outdoor Sales: Plant nursery; farm produce    
                market; flea market
                (26) Home Improvement Sales And Services: Home
                improvement center; paint, glass, and wallpaper
   X   X   X   stores; hardware store; lawn and garden supply     
                store; floor covering store; drapery, curtain,
                and upholstery stores
                (27) Construction Sales And Services: Building
                construction contractor; heavy construction
                general contractor; electrical, plumbing,
   X   X   X   heating, carpentry, masonry, and other special     
                building trade contractor; lumber and other
                building material dealer; used building materials
                dealer
                (28) General Maintenance Services: Ornamental
                shrub and tree service; window cleaning;
                disinfecting and exterminating services;
S   X   X   X   janitorial services (contract basis);              
                miscellaneous cleaning and maintenance services;
                vending machine supply and services; bottled
                liquefied petroleum gas dealer
S   X   X   X   (29) Oil And Gas Field Services: Oil and gas       
                field exploration services
                (30) Agricultural Supplies And Services: Soil
                preparation service; crop planting, cultivation,
   S   X   X   protection, and harvesting services; forestry      
                services; farm supplies, feed, fertilizer, and
                agricultural chemicals
                (31) Low Impact Animal Services: Small animal        
   X   X      hospital or veterinary clinic; pet grooming and   11-5-10
                training (indoor)
                (32) High Impact Animal Services: Large animal
   S   X   X   hospitals, and small animal hospitals with           
                outdoor kennels; livestock services; boarding     11-5-10
                kennels; animal training (outdoor)
   S   S   S   (33) Light Vehicle Sales And Rentals: Automobile   
                dealer; motorcycle dealer
                (34) Moderate Vehicle Sales And Rentals: Boat
   X   X   X   dealer; truck dealer; mobile home dealer;          
                recreational and utility trailer dealer; motor
                home dealer
                (35) Heavy Vehicle Sales And Rentals:
   X   X   X   Construction and mining machinery and equipment;   
                farm and garden machinery and equipment; aircraft
                dealer; truck dealer
   X   X   X   (36) Gasoline station                              
   X   X   X   (37) Gasoline station with convenience store       
   S   X   X   (38) Truck stop                                    
                (39) Light Motor Vehicle Maintenance: Automotive
                trim and upholstery shops; tire service;
                mechanical automotive repair shops; exhaust
                system service; glass replacement shop; radiator
   X   X   X   repair shop; transmission service; wheel           
                alignment service; motor vehicle washing facility
                (self- service or automatic); automotive
                diagnostic and inspection services; motorcycle
                repair shop
                (40) Heavy Motor Vehicle Maintenance: Motor
                vehicle passenger transportation maintenance
                facilities; boat repair shop; aircraft service
   X   X   X   and repair facilities; automotive body and paint   
                shops; major engine overhaul facilities;
                automotive repair shops; farm machinery repair
                shops
                (41) Outdoor Vehicle Storage: Storage yard for
   S   X   X   operable buses, trucks or recreational vehicles    
                as principal use; automotive towing service with
                impoundment yard
X   X   X   X   (42) Automobile Parking: Automobile parking lots     Chapter 13
                and structures as principal use
X   X   X   X   (43) Personal Storage Warehouse: Personal storage  
                miniwarehouse
   S   S   S   (44) Horse Stables: Horse grazing and stables;     
                riding academy, and commercial rental of horses
                (45) Indoor Participant Recreation And
                Entertainment: Dance hall; ballroom; billiard and
                pool establishments; bowling alley; amusement
S   S   S   S   arcade; membership sports and recreation           
                facilities (indoor); table game parlor; ice or
                roller skating rinks; indoor amusement and
                recreation services
                (46) Outdoor Participant Recreation And
S   S   S   S   Entertainment: Amusement park; membership sports   
                and recreation facilities (outdoor); miniature
                golf, driving range
                (49) Restricted Impact Indoor Spectator Sports
S   S   S   S   And Entertainment: Drama/music facilities and      
                spectator sports arena; motion picture theater;
                civic, social and fraternal organizations
                (50) Intensive Impact Indoor Spectator Sports And
   S   S   S   Entertainment: Drama/music facilities and          
                spectator sports arena
                (51) Outdoor Spectator Sports And Entertainment:
   S   S   S   Open air drama/music facilities, spectator sports  
                stadium; racing or driving tracks of any kind
                   (D) INDUSTRIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2D)          
                (1) Custom Handicraft Production: Apparel and
                other hand sewn fabric products; wood products;
                hand fabricated leather products; cut or
                fabricated wood products; hand fabricated pottery
X   X   X   X   products; fabricated metal novelty products;       
                precious metal jewelry; costume jewelry and
                novelties, and miscellaneous notions; candles;
                miscellaneous art and handicraft fabrication or
                processing
                (2) Restricted Indoor Warehousing: Local trucking
                with storage; farm product storage (excluding
                elevators and refrigerated); packing, crating,
X   X   X   X   moving, and storage of household goods; general    
                warehousing and storage; freight trucking
                terminal; wholesale distribution of durable
                goods; wholesale distribution of nondurable goods
                (3) General Indoor Warehousing: Local trucking
                with storage; farm product storage (excluding
                elevators); refrigerated warehousing, commercial
S   X   X   X   food locker; packing, crating, moving, and         
                storage of household goods; general warehousing
                and storage; freight trucking terminal; wholesale
                distribution of durable goods; wholesale
                distribution of nondurable goods
                (4) Outdoor Storage: Wholesale automobile and
   X   X   X   other motor vehicle storage yard; wholesale        
                building and construction materials storage yard;
                wholesale steel and pipe products storage yard
   S   S   S   (4) Outdoor Storage: Grain elevator                
                (5) Low Impact Manufacturing And Processing:
                Dairy products; canned and preserved fruits and
                vegetables; bakery products; sugar and
                confectionery products; fats and oils; bottled
                and canned soft drinks and carbonated waters;
                flavoring extracts and syrups; miscellaneous food
                preparations and related products; ice plant;
                apparel and other finished fabric products;
                cabinetry; furniture and fixtures; printing,
                publishing, and allied industries; glass products
                made of purchased glass; fabricated, leather
                goods; clay product pottery and figurines;
                fabricated structural metal products; electronic
                computing equipment; electrical and electronic
S   X   X   X   machinery, equipment and supplies (assembly        
                only); phonograph records and prerecorded
                magnetic tape; engineering, laboratory,
                scientific, and research instruments; measuring
                and controlling instruments; optical instruments
                and lenses; surgical, medical, and dental
                instruments and supplies; ophthalmic goods;
                photographic equipment and supplies; watches,
                clocks, and similar devices and parts; precious
                metal jewelry and lapidary materials; musical
                instruments; toys, games, amusement, sporting,
                and athletic goods; office, drafting, and artists
                materials; costume jewelry, costume novelties,
                buttons, and miscellaneous notions; signs and
                advertising displays; heavy welding repair,
                blacksmith shop
                (7) Moderate Impact Manufacturing And Processing:
                Cotton ginning; grain mill products; beet sugar
                refining; fish and seafood preserving and
                packaging; tobacco products; textile mill
                products; wood containers; prefabricated wood
                buildings, mobile homes, and components;
                miscellaneous wood products; converted paper and
                paperboard products; drugs and medicines; toilet
                soap; perfumes, cosmetics, and other toilet
                preparations; miscellaneous fabricated rubber
                products, miscellaneous plastics products;
                fabricated leather goods; structural clay
                products; clay product furnishings, fixtures, and
   S   X   X   miscellaneous supplies; concrete products; cut     
                stone and stone products; gaskets, packing, and
                sealing devices; cold rolled steel sheet, strip,
                and bars; foundry casting lightweight nonferrous
                metal not causing noxious fumes or odors; sheet
                metal work; metal furnishing; office and business
                machine assembly; jobbing and repair machine
                shops, excluding punch presses over 20 tons'
                rated capacity, drop hammers, and automatic screw
                machines; motor vehicles and passenger car
                bodies, assembly, painting, and upholstery;
                boats; motorcycles, bicycles, and parts;
                recreational trailers and light truck campers;
                transportation equipment; plated metal ware;
                miscellaneous manufacturing industries
                (8) High Impact Manufacturing And Processing:
                Grain mill; meat product preparation and packing,
                excluding slaughtering and holding pens; pet
                food; animal and marine fats and oils; beverages;
                sawing and planing mills; millwork, veneer,
                plywood, and structural wood members; wood
                preserving; particle board; pulp, paper, paper
                board, building paper, and building board mills
                and products; rubber and plastics products;
                leather tanning and finishing; flat glass;
   S   S   S   glassware, pressed or blown; hydraulic cement;     
                concrete mixing plant; lime; gypsum products;
                abrasives, asbestos, and miscellaneous
                nonmetallic mineral products; primary metal
                industries; fabricated metal products; machinery
                and equipment, except electrical; electrical and
                electronic machinery, equipment, and supplies
                (other than assembly); truck and bus bodies;
                truck trailers; aircraft and parts; railroad
                equipment; guided missiles, space vehicles, and
                parts; military tanks and components
                (9) Hazardous Materials Operations: Alkalies and
                chlorine manufacturing; industrial gases
                manufacturing; inorganic pigments manufacturing;
                industrial inorganic chemicals manufacturing;
                plastics materials, synthetic resins, and
                nonvulcanizable elastomers manufacturing;
                synthetic rubber manufacturing; synthetic organic
                fibers manufacturing; soap, detergents, and
                cleaning preparations manufacturing; paints,
                varnishes, lacquers, enamels, and allied products
   S   S   S   manufacturing; gum and wood chemicals              
                manufacturing; cyclic (coal tar) crudes and
                intermediates, dyes, and organic pigments
                manufacturing, industrial organic chemicals
                manufacturing; agricultural fertilizers,
                pesticides, and allied chemicals manufacturing;
                adhesives and sealants manufacturing; explosives
                manufacturing and storage; miscellaneous
                chemicals and chemical preparations
                manufacturing; petroleum refining and related
                industries; wholesale chemical and petroleum bulk
                stations and terminals
                (10) Salvage Operations: Wholesale storage and
         S   distribution of scrap and waste materials for      
                reclamation, excluding motor vehicles
                   (E) INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORIES (11-4-2E)      
X   X   X   X   (1) Government: Government offices; Municipal      
                facilities and activities
                (2) Public Education: Public elementary and
S   S   S   S   secondary schools; public libraries and            
                information centers
                (5) Low Impact Institutional: Private elementary
                and secondary schools; private libraries and
S   S   S   S   information centers; nursing and similar care      
                facilities (for 5 or fewer residents); church,
                chapel, synagogue, or other place of worship;
                convent, monastery, religion school
                (6) Moderate Impact Institutional: Public or
                private junior college, technical institute,
S   S   S   S   professional school; vocational schools; job       
                training and vocational rehabilitation services;
                nursing and similar care facilities (for more
                than 5 residents)
S   S   S   S   (8) Indoor Cultural: Art gallery; museum;          
                planetarium; aquarium; indoor cultural facilities
S   S   S   S   (9) Outdoor Cultural: Arboreta, botanical, and     
                zoological gardens; outdoor cultural facilities
                (10) Surface Passenger Transportation: Local bus
                line operation office; local airport
X   X   X   X   transportation service office; taxicab operation   
                office; intercity/interstate bus line office;
                charter bus service office; school bus company
                office; bus terminal operation
                (11) Surface Freight Transportation: Railroad
S   X   X   X   transportation facilities and services; local      
                trucking without storage; long distance trucking
S   S   S   S   (12) Aircraft Transportation: Aircraft             
                transportation facilities and airfield services
                (13) Communication Services: Telephone exchange
                buildings and relay stations without garaging,
S   S   S   S   maintenance, or storage facilities; telegraph      
                services; radio broadcasting station; television
                broadcasting or translator stations;
                communication services
                (14) Communication Towers: Telephone/telegraph
S   S   S   S   transmission microwave tower; communication        
                towers; radio/television transmission towers
                (15) Restricted Light Utility: Pipelines for
                substations other than natural gas or water;
X   X   X   X   electricity regulating substation; natural gas     
                transmission facilities/pressure control station;
                water storage facility/pressure control station;
                sewage pressure control station
                (16) General Light Utility And Public Protection:
                Ambulance service; garbage and refuse collecting
                and transporting service facility, excluding
                disposal; telephone company service facility with
X   X   X   X   garaging, maintenance, and storage; electric       
                company, service facility with garaging,
                maintenance, and storage; gas company service
                facility with garaging, maintenance and storage;
                utility services; police station; fire station
                (17) Heavy Utility: Electricity generating plant;
                water purification plant; sewage treatment plant,
         S   sludge drying beds; resource recovery operation    
                for processing waste materials for use in energy
                production
 
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 5973, 5-13-2002; Ord. 6194, 10-13-2014; Ord.
6258, 6-11-2018)
11-8-3: AREA AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Dimensions; Building Height: Permitted uses in the Industrial
Districts shall not be subject to specific lot width, lot area, or height
requirements except as provided in this section and in section
11-14-1 of this title.
   B.   
Table 11-8-3.1, Industrial Bulk Standards: Every permitted use in an Industrial
District shall be subject to the yard and lot coverage requirements set forth
in
table 11-8-3.1 of this section, except as otherwise provided in this subsection
and in section
11-14-1 of this title.
TABLE 11-8-3.1, INDUSTRIAL BULK STANDARDS
 Minimum Yards (Feet)
       Side                                                      Maximum Lot
       Interior (When     Exterior (When     Rear (When abutting Coverage
 Front abutting indicated abutting indicated indicated district) (Percent)
       district)          district)
       C R A I P          C R A I P          C R A I P
    Minimum Yards (Feet)
          Side                                                      Maximum Lot
          Interior (When     Exterior (When     Rear (When abutting Coverage
    Front abutting indicated abutting indicated indicated district) (Percent)
          district)          district)
          C  R  A  I P       C  R  A  I  P      C  R  A  I P
I-P 25    25 25 25 0 25      25 25 25 25 5      25 25 25 0 25       30
I-1 25    15 25 25 0 25      15 25 25 25 25     15 25 25 0 25       50
I-2 25    15 25 25 0 25      15 25 25 25 25     15 25 25 0 25       50
I-3 50    50 50 50 0 50      50 50 50 25 50     50 50 50 0 50       50
 
      1.   The minimum required front yard is twenty five feet (25') for lots
adjacent to a frontage road or platted industrial street.
      2.   The minimum lot width in the I-P district is one hundred feet
(100'), and the minimum lot area is fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 9
RA, A AND P DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: General Description
11-9-2: Permitted Uses; Table
11-9-3: Area And Bulk Standards
11-9-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   RA Rural Acreage Dwelling District: The RA district provides single-
family residential housing with rural amenities in the rural areas of the city.
Special attention should be given to overall design and location of lots to
assure provision of light, air, and open space, and to protect the area from
intensified zoning once it has been developed and/or until it is ready to be
urbanized. The district is intended to allow the development of one acre
minimum (or determined by perc test) lots as part of a planned and designed
rural subdivision of not less than ten (10) acres in size. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-
1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   A Agricultural District: The A district is designed to encourage and
preserve areas intended primarily for agricultural purposes and to prevent
untimely development until it is ready to be urbanized. It offers protection to
agricultural land within the city from the depreciating effect of
objectionable, hazardous, and environmentally disruptive uses; permits low
intensity residential development along with certain essential commercial and
institutional uses; and prevents untimely scattering of more dense urban
development. It is not intended that this district provide a lower standard of
development than is authorized in other districts.
   C.   P Public District: The P district is intended to offer protection of
property held and used for the benefit of the general public, and where
property is acquired and held for the special benefit of the inhabitants of the
city, and to exercise the right of regulation over public properties in a
manner consistent with the laws and general policies of the state. (Ord. 5916,
8-9-1999)
11-9-2: PERMITTED USES; TABLE:
Uses permitted in the agricultural, and public districts are as set forth in
table 11-9-2.1. Meanings of symbols and references in the table are as follows:
   A.   Where an "X" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "X" is permitted as a use of right in that district;
   B.   Where an "S" appears in the column of a district, the use category
listed to the right of the "S" is permitted only through the approval of a
special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-4 of this title;
   C.   The letters preceding the general land use classifications, and the
numbers preceding the individual use categories relate directly to the
corresponding system of identification in section
11-4-2 of this title; and
   D.   Where a cross reference number appears in the "reference" column to the
right of a particular use category, that category is subject to the
requirements set forth in that section of this title or other location in the
city code.
TABLE 11-9-2.1, USES PERMITTED IN A AND P DISTRICTS
RA A P Uses Reference
RA A P Uses                                                       Reference
       (A) RESOURCE CATEGORIES (11-4-2A)                     
X  X  (1) Restricted Horticulture: Ornamental floriculture and    
       nursery products (no building or structure)
       (2) General Horticulture: Ornamental floriculture and
X  X  nursery products (including building or greenhouse); food   
       crops grown under cover
X  X  (3) Crop Production: Field crops; vegetables and melons;    
       fruits and tree nuts
X  X  (5) Livestock Production: Livestock grazing and accessory     
       facilities                                                 11-5-10
X  X  (6) Animal Specialties: Dairy farms; poultry and eggs;        
       animal specialties                                         11-5-10
X  X  (7) On Premises Agricultural Processing: Crop preparation   
       for market (on premises)
X  X  (8) Off Premises Agricultural Processing: Crop preparation  
       for market (off premises)
       (10) Mineral And Raw Material Mining: Stone; sand and
  S S gravel; clay, ceramic, and refractory minerals;             
       miscellaneous nonmetallic minerals
       (B) RESIDENTIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2B)                  
X  X  (1) Detached conventional single-family                     
  X  (3) Mobile home dwelling (10 acre tract only)               
S  S S Bed and breakfast homes                                       11-5-1B3
       (7) Group Homes: Homes for the deaf or blind; homes for
S  S S the mentally handicapped; homes for the physically            11-5-6C
       handicapped and developmentally disabled
X  X  Home occupation                                               11-5-1B15
       (C) COMMERCIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2C)                   
S  S  (6) Child Daycare Center: Baby sitting bureau; daycare        
       center; nursery and preschools                             11-5-6
       (5) Convenience Sales And Personal Services: Delicatessen;
       convenience grocery store; self-service postal facilities
       (indoor); news dealer and self-service newspaper vending      11-4-2C5
S  S  machines (indoor); automatic teller machine (indoor);       
       garment pressing, and agents for laundries and dry
       cleaners; self-service laundry and cleaning; tailor shop;
       beauty and barber shops
  X  (18) Restricted Eating Establishments: Cafeteria; coffee    
       shop; restaurant
  X  (19) Eating Establishments Permitting Alcoholic Beverages:    
       Restaurants and private clubs                              11-5-5
  S  (25) Outdoor Sales: Plant nursery; farm produce market;     
       flea market
       (30) Agricultural Supplies And Services: Soil preparation
  S  service; crop planting, cultivation, protection, and        
       harvesting services; forestry services; farm supplies,
       feed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals
  S  (31) Low Impact Animal Services: Small animal hospital or     
       veterinary clinic; pet grooming and training (indoor)      11-5-10
       (32) High Impact Animal Services: Large animal hospitals,     
  S  and small animal hospitals with outdoor kennels; livestock 11-5-10
       services; boarding kennels; animal training (outdoor)
  X S (44) Horse Stables: Horse grazing and stables; riding         
       academy, and commercial rental of horses                   11-5-10
       (46) Outdoor Participant Recreation And Entertainment:
  S S Amusement park; membership sports and recreation            
       facilities (outdoor); miniature golf, driving range
  S S (48) Outdoor Commercial Lodging: Recreational vehicle park  
       and campsites
       (51) Outdoor Spectator Sports And Entertainment: Open air
  S S drama/music facilities, spectator sports stadium; racing    
       or driving tracks of any kind
       (D) INDUSTRIAL CATEGORIES (11-4-2D)                   
       (4) Outdoor Storage: Wholesale automobile and other motor
  S  vehicle storage yard; wholesale building and construction   
       materials storage yard; wholesale steel and pipe products
       storage yard; grain elevator
       (E) INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORIES (11-4-2E)               
  X X (1) Government: Government offices; Municipal facilities    
       and activities
  X X (2) Public Education: Public elementary and secondary       
       schools; public libraries and information centers
       (3) Restricted Community Recreation And Food Production:
  X X Community gardens available for public use on a             
       prearranged basis; public golf course; passive recreation
       (4) Intensive Community Recreation: Outdoor public
  S X participant sports park or playground (with night           
       lighting); indoor public recreation facilities
       (5) Low Impact Institutional: Private elementary and
S  S S secondary schools; private libraries and information        
       centers; church, chapel, synagogue, or other place of
       worship; convent, monastery, religion school
       (6) Moderate Impact Institutional: Public or private
       junior college, technical institute, professional school;
  S S vocational schools; job training and vocational             
       rehabilitation services; nursing and similar care
       facilities (for more than 5 residents)
  S S (7) High Impact Institutional: College or university;       
       hospitals
  S X (8) Indoor Cultural: Art gallery; museum; planetarium;      
       aquarium; indoor cultural facilities
  S X (9) Outdoor Cultural: Arboreta, botanical, and zoological   
       gardens; outdoor cultural facilities
       (10) Surface Passenger Transportation: Local bus line
       operation office; local airport transportation service
  S X office; taxicab operation office; intercity/interstate bus  
       line office; charter bus service office; school bus
       company office; bus terminal operation
  S S (12) Aircraft Transportation: Aircraft transportation       
       facilities and airfield services
       (13) Communication Services: Telephone exchange buildings
       and relay stations without garaging, maintenance, or
  S  storage facilities; telegraph services; radio broadcasting  
       station; television broadcasting or translator stations;
       communication services
       (14) Communication Towers: Telephone/telegraph                
  S  transmission microwave tower; communication towers; radio/ 11-5-2
       television towers
       (15) Restricted Light Utility: Pipelines for substations
       other than natural gas or water; electricity regulating
  X X substation; natural gas transmission facilities/pressure    
       control station; water storage facility/ pressure control
       station; sewage pressure control station
       (16) General Light Utility And Public Protection: Garbage
       and refuse collecting and transporting service facility,
       excluding disposal; telephone company service facility
  S S with garaging, maintenance, and storage; electric company   
       service facility with garaging, maintenance, and storage;
       gas company service facility with garaging, maintenance,
       and storage; utility services
  X X (16) General Light Utility And Public Protection:           
       Ambulance service; police station; fire station
       (17) Heavy Utility: Electricity generating plant; water
  S S purification plant; sewage treatment plant, sludge drying   
       beds; resource recovery operation for processing waste
       materials for use in energy production
 
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6194, 10-13-2014; Ord. 6258, 6-11-2018)
11-9-3: AREA AND BULK STANDARDS:
   A.   Rural Acreage: Uses permitted in the RA district shall be subject to
the area and bulk requirements of this subsection and section
11-14-1 of this title.
      1.   Lot Width And Frontage:
         a.   For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of two hundred
feet (200') at the front building line, and the lot shall abut the street for a
distance of not less than fifty feet (50') when abutting an arterial street; or
         b.   Minimum lot width of one hundred twenty five feet (125') at the
front building line, and the lot shall abut the street for a distance of not
less than fifty feet (50') when abutting a collector, local or any other type
of street.
      2.   Minimum Parcel Size: Minimum parcel size eligible for rezoning is
ten (10) acres.
      3.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area for a dwelling shall be one acre, or
minimum area required for septic field (to be determined by perc test),
whichever is greater.
      4.   Front Yard: All buildings and extractive operations shall be set
back from a state or federal highway or section line road a minimum of forty
feet (40') from the right of way line or ninety feet (90') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
      5.   Side Yard: Side yard setback shall be twenty feet (20').
      6.   Rear Yard: Rear yard setback shall be minimum of twenty feet (20').
      7.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Maximum lot coverage shall be twenty percent
(20%).
      8.   Maximum Height: Maximum height shall be two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35').
      9.   Adequate Space For Vehicles: All uses shall contain adequate space
on private property to provide for parking, loading, and maneuvering of
vehicles.
      10.   Lighted Outdoor Facilities: Lighted outdoor facilities shall not be
located closer than twenty feet (20') to any property line that adjoins a
residential use, and all lighting shall be arranged so there will be no
annoying glare directed or reflected toward adjacent property.
   B.   Agricultural District: Uses permitted in the A district shall be
subject to the area and bulk requirements of this subsection and section
11-14-1 of this title.
      1.   Lot Width And Frontage: For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot
width of two hundred feet (200') at the front building line. When a street is
present, the lot shall abut the street for a distance of not less than fifty
feet (50'). All lots shall have reasonable access.
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area for a dwelling shall be ten (10)
acres.
      3.   Front Yard: All buildings and extractive operations shall be set
back from a state or federal highway or section line road a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from the right of way line or ninety feet (90') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
      4.   Side Yard:
         a.   Interior side yards for one-story dwellings shall be not less
than fifteen feet (15'), and for dwellings of more than one story, not less
than twenty feet (20'). Principal buildings other than dwellings shall have
interior side yards of not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.   Exterior side yards shall be not less than thirty feet (30') for
a corner lot.
      5.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Exclusive of required front, side, and rear
yards, maximum lot coverage for residential uses shall be five percent (5%);
nonresidential, twenty five percent (25%); agricultural, one hundred percent
(100%).
      6.   Adequate Space For Vehicles: All uses shall contain adequate space
on private property to provide for parking, loading, and maneuvering of
vehicles.
      7.   Lighted Outdoor Facilities: Lighted outdoor facilities shall not be
located closer than twenty feet (20') to any property line that adjoins a
residential use, and all lighting shall be arranged so there will be no
annoying glare directed or reflected toward adjacent property.
   C.   Public District: There are no area and bulk requirements specifically
prescribed for the P district except as provided in section
11-14-1 of this title. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
December 2, 2019CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Scope Of Regulations
11-10-2: General Provisions
11-10-3: Development Guidelines
11-10-4: Administration
11-10-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The planned unit development, herein referred to as PUD, is a special zoning
district category that provides an alternate approach to conventional land use
controls. As a type of development and as a regulatory process, the planned
unit development is subject to special review procedures, and once approved it
becomes a zoning classification for the property it represents. The PUD
designation may be applied to any one or more conventional districts, except
the A and P districts. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-10-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The regulations for the planned unit development zoning
district are designed to:
      1.   Provide the developer with reasonable assurance of ultimate approval
before the expenditure of complete design monies, while providing the city with
assurances that the project will retain the character envisioned at the time of
concurrence;
      2.   Encourage diversified living environments, and accommodate a mixture
of land uses that otherwise would not be allowed together on the same site;
      3.   Permit flexibility within the development with respect to area and
bulk standards to best utilize the physical features of a particular tract of
land;
      4.   Provide and preserve meaningful open space, particularly where it is
necessary or desirable for such common areas to be shared by more than one
owner;
      5.   Encourage a more efficient use of land, public services, and natural
resources than is generally achieved through conventional development;
      6.   Provide a smooth transition from surrounding densities, intensities,
and uses with those proposed in the PUD; and
      7.   Encourage the provision of amenities beyond the minimum requirements
of conventional development.
   B.   Goals: In conjunction with the purposes stated in subsection A of this
section, the following goals are established to help achieve high quality PUDs
which are compatible with abutting developments.
      1.   Open Space: A PUD should provide meaningful open space to serve as a
buffer between a PUD and the surrounding neighborhood when needed for a smooth
transition.
      2.   Energy Conservation: A PUD should be designed in such a way as to
provide an energy efficient development.
      3.   Home Ownership: PUDs that contemplate individual dwelling unit
ownership should provide a copy of proposed restrictive covenants and, where
necessary, the creation of a property owner's association for the maintenance
of common space.
   C.   Applicability: The provisions of this title shall remain applicable,
except as specifically modified pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
the purpose of development of land for planned unit developments. No
modifications of use, area, bulk, or subdivision requirements of the
conventional zoning districts shall be permitted, except through applicable
variance procedures, unless a planned unit development application is submitted
and approved in accordance with the provisions of the section
11-10-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-10-3: DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES:
   A.   Authority: Because the PUD provides the opportunity for varying
densities, greater design flexibility, mixed land uses, and improved
marketability, the applicant should be prepared to provide amenities that might
not be required or possible in a conventional development. Review and approval
of a PUD is, therefore, a process to achieve the intents and purposes of these
regulations and the master plan. In all cases, proposed PUDs are to be reviewed
as to the types and locations of proposed uses and whether the overall design
of the tract presents a development that is compatible with its surroundings.
Standards and criteria established herein shall be used in the determination of
the approval or disapproval of proposals for planned unit developments. Other
factors not listed may also be considered in the review process in order to
respond to specific design and land use proposals. A PUD application which is
judged to comply with this section shall be considered to be qualified for
preliminary approval.
   B.   Mandatory Standards: Strict interpretation of the following criteria
shall be required as a minimum level of compliance in the review of all PUD
applications.
      1.   Permitted Uses: A PUD may be considered for any use or combination
of uses allowed in an applicable conventional commercial or industrial district
as a use permitted by right, special use, or accessory use. A PUD consisting of
one or more underlying conventional residential districts may be considered for
any use or combination of uses included in any residential use category, in
addition to accessory uses authorized by section
11-5-1 of this title, and for one or more of the following listed membership
sports and recreation clubs or physical fitness facilities: country club, golf
club, boating club, bridge club, bathing beach, swimming club, racquetball or
handball club, tennis club, horse riding club with stables, physical fitness
center, gymnasium, and health club. The amount, type, and location of all land
uses shall be established in the PUD application documents, and reviewed with
respect to compliance with the master plan and compatibility with adjacent
development.
      2.   Density: Residential density in the PUD is subject to the following
guidelines:
         a.   In calculating the permitted number of dwelling units for a given
land area of the PUD, any fractional remainder shall be rounded down to the
nearest whole number.
         b.   In determining the equivalent number of dwelling units
represented by group quarters and residential care facilities, each five (5)
persons of capacity shall be counted as one family and therefore represent one
dwelling unit.
         c.   Land area that is counted in determining the permitted number of
dwelling units shall be used only for dwelling sites, uses accessory to
dwellings including vehicular and pedestrian ways, yards, and other open space
or common areas reserved for use by residents of the dwellings. (Ord. 5916, 8-
9-1999)
         d.   When a portion of a PUD district is within an area of special
flood hazard, that portion within the SFHA may be used to calculate the
intensity of units per acre subject to the following conditions: (Ord. 5916, 8-
9-1999; amd. Ord. 6103, 7-27-2009)
            (1)   The property must be contiguous, under the same ownership and
cannot be used for these calculations more than once;
            (2)   None of the floodway shall be developed, and a drainage
easement for the floodway shall be dedicated to the city as shown on the latest
flood hazard boundary map for maintenance purposes. An access easement may also
be required if the floodway is inaccessible to the city for maintenance
purposes; and
            (3)   The use of the allowable density does not eliminate standard
requirements of this title and title 10, chapter 10 of this code.
      3.   Area And Bulk Standards: The design of the PUD may provide for
modification of conventional zoning ordinance requirements for such elements as
lot sizes, yards, lot coverage, and building height on individual lots in
accordance with the PUD application. In all cases, however, the provisions of
section
11-14-1 of this title shall prevail with respect to these standards for areas
along the perimeter of the PUD adjacent to bordering zoning districts, and with
respect to corner visibility.
      4.   Screening: The PUD application should show graphically the
transitional treatment, if any, that will be employed to separate the PUD from
abutting properties, including commitments to fencing, vegetation, earth berms,
landscape screening, or similar techniques. Whenever a PUD is adjacent to
residentially zoned property, a six foot (6') sightproof fence shall be
installed unless property is separated by a public or approved private street.
      5.   Access And Circulation: The traffic circulation system within the
PUD should provide for the safe, convenient, and efficient movement of goods
and people with a minimum of conflict between various modes of movement.
Sidewalks shall be provided for pedestrian movement within the development and
shall connect with existing pedestrian systems or allow for future extensions
to activity centers such as schools and shopping areas outside the development.
Shared parking facilities in commercial or industrial developments shall be
authorized only where a commitment is provided in the PUD application for
common access driveways within the development and abutting arterial streets.
Favorable consideration should be given to design of short local streets
serving limited areas, such as the residential cul-de- sac, and reduction of
conventional minor street design widths should be considered appropriate on
such streets when they are designed with limited length and only one access
point. Development of a private street system may be appropriate under certain
conditions where there is no through traffic. All private streets and drives
must be approved and inspected by the city engineer.
      6.   Open Space: Open space may be provided for the common use of the
residents or users of the PUD, and is required where densities are to be
increased to promote economy of development, or where other methods of land use
intensification are proposed. Such open space and other common use facilities
shall be consistent with the planned function, and located within the PUD so as
to be convenient and visually attractive to all of the intended users, as well
as to protect flood hazard areas and natural wildlife habitats. Open space
areas shall be left in their natural state or landscaped and maintained in
accordance with the approved plans for environmental amenity, recreational, or
park use.
      7.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking spaces may be
provided on the lot containing the use for which they are intended to serve, or
in a common area, in which case they shall be so located as to be accessible to
the uses they are intended to serve. The minimum off street parking and loading
requirements for all uses shall be as set forth in chapter 13 of this title
except, however, that parking requirements may be reduced where it can be
demonstrated that a collective parking facility located in a common area can
adequately serve two (2) or more uses while having fewer parking spaces than
the total of the separate requirements for each use. Lighting for parking areas
shall be designed and installed so that illumination will not fall on
residentially zoned property.
      8.   Signs: Signs shall be regulated for all uses as set forth in chapter
12 of this title for the applicable conventional district.
      9.   Accessory structures And Uses: Accessory structures and uses shall
be regulated for all uses as set forth in section
11-5-1 of this title.
      10.   Common Facilities: Privately owned common areas may be established
where certain facilities are shared by several adjacent property owners within
the PUD, or are available to the general public for use in connection with
visiting individual properties in the PUD. Such common facilities may include
private streets, off street parking and access drives, service areas,
recreational facilities, plazas and other open space; provided, however, that
at least fifteen percent (15%) of the area of any common open space shall be
used for landscaping and/or pedestrian amenities. Common areas are to be shown
on the subdivision plat, and the applicant shall clearly demonstrate the
existence and capabilities of the owner(s) of the common area to provide for
their permanent retention and continued maintenance.
      11.   Improvements: All structures and subdivision improvements in a PUD
shall conform to the applicable codes and regulations of the city. The
standards and requirements of the subdivision regulations for paving of public
streets shall be observed for all publicly dedicated streets within or adjacent
to a PUD, regardless of whether or not it is being subdivided. A paved
pedestrian system which may, but not necessarily, be conventional curb line or
property line sidewalks shall be provided connecting all building areas,
parking areas, and common facilities on the site, and that of the city, as
existing or planned. If it is not to be located in the public right of way,
such pedestrian system shall be designated on the final development plan and
the final plat as a pedestrian easement. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-10-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Initiation: Any person owning or possessing a property right or
interest in or to a tract of land may make application for establishment of a
supplemental planned unit development district. Review, approval, and
enforcement of the PUD application shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to submission of a PUD application,
the applicant must discuss with city staff the procedure for adopting a planned
unit development, and the requirements for the general layout of major roadways
and utilities, general design considerations, the availability of existing
community services, and similar matters. The applicant may also be advised,
when appropriate, to discuss the development with those officials, the
technical review committee (TRC), who must eventually approve the various
aspects of the proposal within their jurisdiction, generally when the
preliminary development plan is complete. The intent of this preapplication
conference is to expedite the process and to explain the procedures for
approval of the PUD application.
   C.   Required Documents For Preliminary Approval: A PUD application shall
consist of the following documents which, if approved, shall be evidence of
conformance with the requirements described in these regulations, as well as
serve as the basis for review and approval of the final development plan, all
subsequent subdivision plats, and building permits within the PUD.
      1.   Procedural Checklist: This form will be supplied to the applicant at
the preapplication conference and is used to aid in facilitating orderly
development of a PUD proposal.
      2.   Application For Rezoning: The standard application form for a zoning
map amendment shall be filed in accordance with the regular procedures set
forth in section
11-17-5 of this title.
      3.   Preliminary Development Plan: The preliminary development plan is a
graphic representation of the proposed development. The following items are
required to be included on the preliminary development plan, which may be shown
on one or more sheets depending on the size and complexity of the proposal, or
depending on the desire of the applicant to present the landscaping items
separate from the primary site plan elements, provided that items C3a, C3b and
C3c of this section are shown on each sheet:
         a.   Title of the planned unit development;
         b.   Name and address of property owner of record and developer, if
different;
         c.   Graphic scale, north point, date, and legend;
         d.   Length of boundaries of the tract measured to the nearest foot;
         e.   Location and identification of abutting subdivisions, and
relationship with airport approach zone, flood hazard area, or city limits if
applicable;
         f.   Existing physiographical characteristics including contour lines
at two foot (2') intervals and identification of natural watercourses,
floodplains, and wooded areas;
         g.   Location and size of existing and proposed easements, utilities,
and public rights of way/streets;
         h.   Approximate location of all private streets;
         i.   Location, orientation, area, and height of existing buildings and
other structures;
         j.   Approximate location, orientation, area, and height of proposed
buildings and other structures to include typical elevations;
         k.   Approximate location and dimensions of proposed lot lines;
         l.   Approximate intensity of residential uses, if any, expressed by
number of dwelling units allocated to each identifiable segment of the PUD;
         m.   General location and identification of land use types, including
common areas and facilities that are to be owned and maintained by an
association of individual property owners in the PUD;
         n.   Approximate location and proposed number of off street parking
and loading spaces, and access drives;
         o.   Approximate location of fences and pedestrian walkways;
         p.   A conceptual landscape plan as required by subsection 11-14-3D of
this title.
         q.   A separate written request, as applicable, for any of the
foregoing items to be waived or amended, with necessary explanations to justify
the request.
      4.   Statement Of Intent: The statement of intent is a written report
which shall always accompany the application for rezoning, and which shall
contain the following elements:
         a.   Proposed title of the planned unit development;
         b.   Name, address, and telephone number of the property owner(s) of
record, and developer, if different;
         c.   Statement of the general concept of the proposed PUD, the special
considerations which require the PUD zoning classification rather than a
conventional district designation, and why, in the applicant's opinion, the
proposed district would be in the public interest and would be consistent with
the stated objectives of the city with regard to the planned unit development
district classification;
         d.   Statement of the proposed development's intended compliance with
each of the applicable guidelines addressed in subsection 11-10-3B of this
chapter;
         e.   A statement of the substance of existing or proposed covenants;
future ownership within the development; property owner's association contract,
or other restrictions imposed upon the use of the land, buildings, and
structures; and any other provisions which set forth mechanisms for ownership
and maintenance of property within the PUD;
         f.   A statement as to the form of agency proposed to own and maintain
the common use areas and facilities shown as a part of the preliminary
development plan;
         g.   The anticipated development time schedule for completion of
proposed phases or stages of construction; and
         h.   A statement regarding the compatibility of the proposed
development with the surrounding neighborhood to include such things as use of
buffer or transition zones, projected range of value of structures, type of
materials to be used, square footage of structures, etc.
   D.   Review: Review of a PUD application shall consist of the following
steps:
      1.   The developer shall supply evidence at or before the required public
hearing that he has met with, or attempted to meet with, the property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property and has shown them the
PUD proposal. Such meeting shall be held at a reasonable time and in a location
convenient to the neighborhood at least ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing. Going door to door in the neighborhood shall be considered to meet
this requirement;
      2.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt by city staff of all required
PUD application documents for preliminary approval, a public hearing date shall
be established and proper notice given, in accordance with the provisions set
forth in section
11-17-2 of this title. Review and approval of the PUD application shall be
based on the following considerations:
         a.   Whether or not the proposed PUD is consistent with the master
plan;
         b.   Whether or not the proposed PUD is compatible with the existing
and expected development of surrounding areas; and
         c.   Whether or not the proposed PUD is consistent with the stated
purposes and standards of this chapter.
   E.   Approval: The PUD application for rezoning shall be processed as
prescribed in section
11-17-5 of this title for the establishment of any zoning district. Upon
approval of the application for rezoning, the property shall receive the
planned unit development zoning designation. The ordinance rezoning the subject
tract to planned unit development district shall specifically incorporate into
the ordinance by reference the statement of intent which will become a part of
the official records of the city. Upon the effective date of such ordinance,
the designation "PUD" shall be recorded for each identifiable segment of the
subject tract on the official zoning map.
   F.   Final Development Plan: The final development plan is a graphic
representation of the proposed development which shall also serve as the
preliminary plat if the subject tract is to be subdivided.
      1.   The final development plan shall be submitted in accordance with the
procedures set forth in section
11-17-3 of this title and must be approved prior to the issuance of any
building permits. Review and approval of the final development plan shall be
based on the following considerations:
         a.   If including a preliminary plat, whether or not the proposed plat
is consistent with all requirements of the subdivision regulations; and
         b.   Whether or not the final development plan is substantially
consistent with the preliminary development plan and statement of intent.
   G.   Enforcement: No building permit shall be issued for property within the
PUD except in accordance with the approved final development plan and statement
of intent as adopted with the ordinance of rezoning, and pursuant to the
requirements of section
11-17-1 of this title. In the case of PUDs which are to be subdivided, the
issuance of a building permit for any property located therein shall also be
contingent upon prior approval and recording of a final plat that is consistent
with the approved final development plan, and upon prior receipt of a copy of
any covenants or other required restrictions along with proof that said
documents have been filed with the county clerk. Certificates of occupancy may
be contingent upon the completion of streets, drives, walks, minimum parking
and loading facilities, landscaping, and common use facilities coincident with
the completion of structures adjacent to, or being served by, such facilities.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
   H.   Minor Amendments: Minor modifications to an approved final development
plan may be authorized by the planning commission, when submitted by the
community development director to the planning commission for its consideration
and approval, provided that such modification is a minor amendment in
accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-3 of this title and does not violate the approved statement of intent for
the PUD. Substantial amendments shall require compliance with the notice and
procedural requirements set forth in this section for new PUD applications.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   I.   Abandonment And Reversion: An approved planned unit development may be
abandoned upon the request of the property owner(s) of record of the subject
tract, and subject to the application for, and approval of, an ordinance
rezoning the property to its original designation or to a new designation in
accordance with the provisions of subsection 11-17-5B of this title. Any
planned unit development for which an application for approval of a final
development plan is not submitted within five (5) years from the effective date
of approval of the supplemental PUD designation or any planned unit development
in which construction has not substantially commenced within five (5) years
from the effective date of approval of the final development plan, will
automatically revert to the zoning classification in effect on the property
prior to the rezoning to planned unit development district. The owner thereof
may reapply subject to the notice and procedural requirements set forth in this
section for new PUD applications. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 11
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Hospital-Medical Complex District
11-11-2: HP Historical Preservation District
11-11-1: HOSPITAL-MEDICAL COMPLEX DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent:
      1.   The hospital-medical complex district is of special and substantial
public interest because of its significance to the provisions for overall
health care services and facilities for Ponca City and the surrounding region.
The type of development that occurs within this area will have a direct impact
on the future of health care services as well as an impact on the surrounding
residential and commercial areas.
      2.   It is the intent of these regulations to promote a superior level of
convenience, comfort, and amenity within the district; to encourage a safe and
pleasant pedestrian circulation; and to assure beneficial visual relationships
within the district, and with adjoining districts.
      3.   To these ends, development shall be designed to establish an open
"campus type" effect within the hospital-medical office district, with a
pedestrian circulation system forming a convenient and coordinated network
between and among the medical offices and the hospital facility.
      4.   The commercial area along 14th Street is to be designed in such a
manner that will provide a lessening of traffic congestion, and that will
promote groupings of activities and buildings in order to provide additional
amenities for customers and employees alike.
      5.   To accomplish the objective for future development, this SPI
district is divided into three (3) subdistricts: hospital- medical,
residential, and commercial.
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses And structures: The following uses are allowed
within the respective subdistricts of the hospital- medical complex district:
      1.   Hospital-Medical:
         a.   Professional office buildings.
         b.   Retail sales establishments dealing primarily in sales of medical
related goods and supplies.
         c.   Medical clinics and laboratories.
         d.   Service establishments dealing primarily with providing service
or repair of medically related goods, or with providing medical counseling or
therapy services.
         e.   Structures and uses required for the operation of a public
utility or performance of a governmental function, except uses or buildings
involving storage as a primary purpose.
         f.   Parking lots.
      2.   Commercial:
         a.   Retail establishments, except service stations, new or used
automotive, trailer, mobile home, or motorcycle sales and services; or
establishments dealing with secondhand merchandise other than antiques.
         b.   Eating and drinking establishments.
         c.   Office buildings.
         d.   Service establishments, including personal and repair services
other than repair services for automotive and heavy equipment.
         e.   Amusement and recreational enterprises.
      3.   Residential: Single-family detached dwellings.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures which are
customarily accessory and clearly incidental to permitted principal uses and
structures shall be permitted in each of the respective subdistricts, subject
to the general restrictions on permitted principal uses and structures.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Gross floor area of buildings, with the exceptions
noted at subsection L of this section shall not exceed one and six-tenths (1.6)
times gross lot area within the commercial and hospital-medical subdistricts;
provided, that within the low profile area of the hospital-medical subdistrict
the floor area ratio shall not exceed five-tenths (0.5) times the gross lot
area. Residential floor area ratios shall be the same or equivalent to the
requirements of the single-family zoning district.
   E.   Lot Coverage: Lot coverage of buildings shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the gross lot area for the hospital- medical and commercial
subdistricts. Lot coverage in the residential subdistrict shall be the same as
or equivalent to the requirements of the single-family zoning district.
   F.   Pedestrian Open space: Pedestrian or landscaped open space shall be
provided in an amount equal to at least twenty five percent (25%) of the net
lot area. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
   G.   Height Limitation: There shall be no height limitations for this
district, but height limits may be set for all developments within the low
profile area of the hospital-medical district. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003
Code)
   H.   Sign Limitations: No sign intended to be read from any public street
shall be permitted except as provided below.
   I.   Off Site Signs, Billboards And Poster Panels: Off site signs,
billboards and poster panels will be prohibited.
   J.   Mounting Of Signs: Mounting of signs shall be only upon buildings, and
no sign shall project more than three feet (3') beyond the wall on which
mounted, or four feet (4') above the roof of the building; no sign shall
project over any public way. However, within the hospital-medical subdistrict
signs may be placed at the entrances to parking facilities or in front of
professional office buildings in accordance with the provisions of subsection K
of this section.
   K.   Number And Area Limitations:
      1.   For signs erected with their highest portions below a height of
twenty feet (20') above curb level, minimum sign allotment shall be one sign
and not to exceed thirty (30) square feet of surface area for each twenty feet
(20') (or remaining portion of 10 feet or more) of lot line adjacent to a
public street. Such sign area may be used in a lesser number of signs than the
maximum permitted. Signs permitted shall be erected only on the exposure of the
property from which the allotment is computed.
      2.   Signs erected with their lowest portions at or above a height of
twenty feet (20') above curb level on buildings or portions of buildings shall
be only general identification signs designating the name of the building and/
or the name and nature of establishments therein. Only one such sign shall be
permitted for each exposed face of the building, except that where the length
of the building face exceeds one hundred fifty feet (150'), a second sign shall
be permitted. Minimum area allotment for any such signs shall be one hundred
(100) square feet or two percent (2%) of the surface area of the building
involved, up to a maximum of three hundred (300) square feet.
      3.   Within the hospital-medical subdistrict freestanding signs will be
permitted at the entrance to parking facilities and/or at the front of
buildings, providing the design and surface area is approved by the planning
commission and board of commissioners in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection.
   L.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading shall be in accordance with general parking and loading requirements
applying in limited commercial districts. In the course of plan approval on
development involving multiple uses with different peak hours for parking
requirements, reduction of total requirements may be permitted, subject to
appropriate conditions and safeguards assuring adequate parking for all uses
involved at peak demand periods.
   M.   Applications; Plan Review And Approval:
      1.   Before a permit is issued for the construction of any building or
reconstruction or alteration resulting in enlargement of any building, detailed
site plans, building plans and elevations, and maps or plans indicating the
relation of the proposed development to surrounding or otherwise affected
property in terms of: location, amount, character, and continuity of open
space; protection of desirable principal views; convenience of access through
and between buildings or in other locations where appropriate for public
purposes and where such access will reduce pedestrian congestion on public
streets; separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic; signs; lighting; and
such other matters as are appropriate to determinations in the circumstances of
the case, shall be submitted to the planning commission for its
recommendations. After due consideration, the commission shall transmit its
recommendations and the application to the board of commissioners for its
approval.
      2.   No such permit shall be issued without such approval. Approval may
be granted for the plans as submitted, or conditionally, subject to stated
modifications, or may be denied, with written reasons for the denial supplied
to the applicant.
      3.   Public hearings may be held in connection with such plan review
process, with such public or other notice as is deemed appropriate, but shall
not be required. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      4.   Determinations on such applications shall be based on compliance
with the intent of the hospital-medical complex plan and other officially
adopted plans or ordinance of the city in accordance therewith, and in
particular shall involve consideration of the intent of the district,
regulations for the district, and the necessity for variations in the
circumstances of the particular case. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   N.   Area Of Hospital-Medical Complex District: Said district shall comprise
the following described area:
Beginning at the center line of Hartford Avenue and Joe Street; thence north
along the center line of Joe Street, approximately 1,090 feet to the center
line of Joe Street and the alley south of Young Avenue; thence east along the
center line of the alley south of Young Avenue, approximately 470 feet; thence
north, between Lots 7 and 8 of Lake Subdivision, 170 feet to the center line of
Young Avenue; thence continuing north along the center line of the alley west
of Fairview to a point on the north line of the southeast quarter (SE 1/4) of
Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 2 East of the Indian Meridian, Kay County,
Oklahoma; thence east along said line a distance of approximately 525 feet;
thence south, fifty (50) feet to a point on the center line of the fifty-foot
alley easement; thence, continuing south along the center line of the fifty-
foot alley easement, a distance of approximately 1,360 feet, to a point on the
center line of the alley easement; thence east a distance of 150 feet along the
lot line of Lots 42 and 43, Garden Acres Addition; thence south 300 feet to a
point on the north right-of- way line of Patton Drive; thence continuing south
a distance of 124 feet; thence southeasterly, 170 degrees 06 minutes, a
distance of 66 feet; thence continuing southeasterly, thence 178 degrees, 36
minutes, a distance of 48.1 feet; thence continuing southeasterly, 133 degrees,
29 minutes, a distance of 57.7 feet to a point on the west right-of-way line of
North 14th Street, thence south 375 feet to a point on the center line of
Hartford Avenue; thence south 375 feet to a point on Hartford Avenue; thence
south 375 feet to a point on the center line of Hartford Avenue; thence
continuing south a distance of 280 feet to a point on the center line of Gary
Avenue extended; thence west along the center line of Gary Avenue to a point on
the center line of Joe Street extended, thence north along the center line of
Joe Street extended, a distance of 290 feet to the true point of beginning.
      (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-11-2: HP HISTORICAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Description and Purpose:
      1.   The historic preservation district ordinance, hereinafter referred
to as the HP district and its regulations, may be applied to property located
in any zoning district in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
HP district is intended to be an overlay zoning district and the regulations
imposed by such district shall be in addition to the regulations of the
underlying zoning district applicable to the subject parcel.
      2.   The city hereby declares that the historical, architectural,
cultural, and aesthetic features of the city represent some of the finest and
most valuable resources and such resources are the embodiment of the heritage
of the people of the city. Therefore, it is hereby declared that the purposes
of this section, to be known as the historic preservation district ordinance,
shall be as follows:
         a.   To promote the creation of historic districts and landmarks for
the educational, cultural, economical and general welfare of the public through
the preservation, protection and regulation of buildings, sites, monuments,
structures and areas of historic interest or importance within the city;
         b.   To safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving and
regulating historic landmarks and districts which reflect elements of its
cultural, social, economical, political and architectural history;
         c.   To preserve and enhance the environmental quality of
neighborhoods;
         d.   To strengthen the city's economic base by the stimulation of
conservation and reuse;
         e.   To establish and preserve property values;
         f.   To foster economic development;
         g.   To ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and
development of the municipality;
         h.   To promote the use of historic landmarks and districts for the
culture, prosperity, education and welfare of the people of the city and
visitors to the city;
         i.   To establish a preservation plan to accomplish the goals of this
section.
   B.   Definitions:
    CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: The official document issued by the
historic preservation advisory panel approving and/or concurring in any
application for permit for erection, demolition, moving, reconstruction,
restoration or alteration of any structure designated historic property.
   GOOD REPAIR: A condition which not only meets minimum standards of health
and safety, but which also guarantees continued attractiveness, continued
structural soundness and continued usefulness.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT OR AREA: A defined area of historical,
architectural, and/or cultural value, with clearly defined boundaries all of
which are determined by the historic preservation advisory panel and within
which the majority of owners have agreed to this designation.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, parking facility, fence, wall,
work of art or other object, the addition or deletion of which constitutes a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment of real
property.
   LANDMARK: An individual structure determined by the historic preservation
advisory panel to be historically and/or architecturally significant.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work for which a building permit or any
other city permit or certificate is not required and where the purpose of such
work is stabilization, and further, where such work will not noticeably change
the exterior appearance of the structure. Any work not satisfying all of the
above requirements shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair. The
application of paint to previously unpainted brick or masonry shall not be
considered ordinary maintenance and repair, nor shall the construction or
enlargement of a driveway or parking area be considered ordinary maintenance
and repair.
   PANEL: The historic preservation advisory panel of the city of Ponca City,
Oklahoma.
   PRESERVATION: The act or process of applying measures to sustain the
existing form, integrity and material of a building or structure, and the
existing form and vegetative cover of a site. It may include initial
stabilization work, where necessary, as well as ongoing maintenance of the
historic building materials.
   RECONSTRUCTION: The act or process of reproducing by new construction the
exact form and detail of a vanished building, structure or object, or a part
thereof, as it appeared at a specific period of time.
   REHABILITATION: The act or process of returning a property to a state of
utility through repair or alteration which makes possible an efficient
contemporary use while serving those portions or features of the property which
are significant to its historical, architectural and cultural values.
   RESTORATION: The act or process of accurately recovering the form and
details of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of
time by means of the removal of later work or by the replacement of missing
earlier work.
   SIGN: Shall mean and include every sign, device, figure, painting,
sculpture, drawing, message, placard, poster, billboard, ground sign, temporary
sign, marquee, awning canopy, banner, pennant, flag, announcement, decoration,
demonstration, display, illustration or insignia designed to be seen from
outside any improvement, and which is used to advertise or promote the
interests of any person when the same is placed in view of the general public.
   C.   Historic Preservation Advisory Panel:
      1.   Creation: There is hereby created a historic preservation advisory
panel. The panel shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the board of
commissioners. Said panel shall consist of seven (7) members, all of whom have
demonstrated interest in historic preservation.
      2.   Membership: Membership shall consist of seven (7) members, three (3)
professional people with preservation related working experience (historian,
architect, real estate person, planner, lawyer, archeologist, engineer, etc.)
and four (4) with preservation interest.
      3.   Terms Of Membership: The term of each panel member shall be three
(3) years.
      4.   Removal Of Members: Members may be removed from the panel in the
same manner as they were appointed. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      5.   Meetings And Rules Of Advisory Panel: The advisory panel shall be
empowered to adopt rules for the conduct of its business. The panel shall elect
a chairman who shall serve for one year and who shall be eligible for
reelection. All meetings of the advisory panel shall be open to the public. Any
person, or duly appointed representative, shall be entitled to appear and be
heard on any matter before the panel. The panel shall keep a record of its
proceedings, a copy of which shall be filed for public view in the office of
the planning department. A quorum shall consist of four (4) members of the
panel unless there is a vacancy in the membership, in which case it shall be a
majority of the active members and action taken at any meeting shall require
the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members of the panel. The
director of community development or the designated representative of such
director shall act as secretary of the panel and shall attend and keep the
minutes of all meetings. He or she shall act in an advisory capacity only and
may participate in the panel's discussions but shall have no vote. The director
of community development and the staff of the community development department
shall assist the panel in discharging its duties. (Ord. 6073, 1-14-2008)
   D.   Duties Of Historic Preservation Advisory Panel: Unless otherwise
specified in this title, the duties of the historic preservation advisory panel
shall be as follows:
      1.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a comprehensive inventory of
historical, architectural and archeological resources within the city.
      2.   Prepare or cause to be prepared a general historic preservation plan
to be incorporated within the comprehensive plan.
      3.   Prepare findings of fact relating to the recommendation for
designation of historical, architectural and archeological resources.
      4.   Prepare findings of fact pursuant to action taken by the advisory
panel relating to certificates of appropriateness.
      5.   Make recommendations to the board of commissioners and planning
commission concerning the acquisition of development rights, facade easements,
and the development of historic preservation plans.
      6.   Make recommendations to the board of commissioners concerning grants
from federal and state agencies, private groups and individuals, and the
utilization of budgetary appropriations to promote the preservation of historic
architectural or archeological resources; and, when so directed by the board of
commissioners the panel may oversee historical projects or programs.
      7.   Promulgate rules governing the meetings of the panel.
      8.   Increase public awareness of the value of historic architectural or
archeological resources by developing and participating in public information
programs and by recommending the update of the preservation program and by the
giving of advice to owners or residents of such resources as to the problems
and techniques of preservation work; and further, by placing monuments and
markers at historical sites as chosen by the panel.
      9.   Keep minutes and records of all meetings and proceedings including
voting records, attendance, resolutions, findings of facts, determinations and
decisions.
      10.   Make recommendations to the board of commissioners, planning
commission, board of adjustment, and building inspector regarding historic
designations, certificates of appropriateness, and amendment and enforcement of
this section and the city code.
      11.   Monitor actions undertaken by other city agencies or actions of
other governmental units (counties, state, etc.) with respect to the effect of
such actions upon historical, architectural and archeological resources.
Comment and make recommendation to the board of commissioners and planning
commission.
      12.   Investigate complaints, conduct hearings and recommend the
commencement of actions to enforce the provisions of this section.
      13.   Conduct a periodic review of the status of designated landmarks and
historic districts and provide periodic reports on the findings of said review,
along with any resolutions for action as considered appropriate, to the board
of commissioners.
      14.   Any other functions imposed by this section or which may be
specified by the board of commissioners.
   E.   Mediation Hearings:
      1.   Citizens may file with the secretary of the panel formal written
complaints concerning alleged violations of this section.
      2.   Upon receipt by the panel of such a written complaint charging any
property owner, resident or occupant of a historic preservation district or a
historic landmark district with violation of any provision of this section, the
panel may schedule a mediation hearing to consider such complaint.
      3.   The secretary of the panel shall promptly notify the complainant and
the person or persons alleged to have committed the violation by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the time and place of the hearing
and the nature of the complaint, and invite the parties to appear and to be
heard.
      4.   Such hearing shall be held for the purpose of mediating the dispute
which is the subject of the filed complaint and for the further purpose of
fostering compliance with this section.
   F.   District Regulations And Restrictions:
      1.   Creation: The historic preservation zoning district is hereby
created.
      2.   General Provisions: All provisions of this section, including the
definitions contained in subsection B of this section, shall be applicable to
this district.
      3.   District Identification Sites: District identification sites
designated by the board of commissioners as being within the HP historic
preservation district shall be identified on the official zoning map of the
city and in other official writings by the symbol "HP".
      4.   District Restrictions: Unless otherwise specifically provided in
this section, the following restrictions shall apply to this district:
         a.   The erection, moving, demolition, reconstruction, restoration or
alteration of any structure is prohibited unless a certificate of
appropriateness is granted by the Ponca City historic preservation advisory
panel subsequent to review and analysis by that body;
         b.   All structures and grounds shall be kept in good repair;
         c.   All interior portions of structures shall be kept in such good
repair to the extent necessary to prevent structural deterioration;
         d.   All structures and grounds shall be maintained in good condition
in keeping with the historical nature of the site designated;
         e.   Outside storage of materials or supplies on a permanent basis is
prohibited;
         f.   All external signs and advertising displays shall conform to all
requirements of the Ponca City sign ordinance (chapter 12 of this title);
         g.   All provisions and procedures of this district shall be complied
with fully.
   G.   Uses Permitted: A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      1.   A single structure or structures within a historic district shall be
permitted for the use under the existing zoning, i.e., commercial, single-
family or multi-family residential.
      2.   Servant or caretaker quarters, either attached to or separate from a
single-family dwelling.
      3.   Temporary buildings for use incidental to construction work which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      4.   Open or public park, playground or recreation area, but excluding
recreation facilities or services furnished on payment of a fee or admission
charge.
      5.   Private park, recreation area and clubhouse, when owned and
maintained by members of a homeowners' association or organization activity
engaged in supporting the preservation of a home of architectural and/or
historical significance.
      6.   Directional and informational signs shall be permitted subject to
the provisions of the Ponca City sign ordinance (chapter 12 of this title) and
certificate of appropriateness.
      7.   Private garage. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      8.   Parking and storage of motor vehicles and recreational vehicles
incidental to residential uses is permitted, if the parking area is located
inside a garage or carport, or outside in the rear yard. Outside parking in the
front yard and side yard is permitted only in compliance with the following
requirements:
         a.   The vehicle is parked on a permanent hard surfaced area
continuous and contiguous to an existing driveway.
         b.   No part of the vehicle extends into the public right of way.
         c.   No required corner sight triangle is encroached upon.
It shall otherwise be unlawful and an offense for any person to park or store,
or any property owner to permit any person to park or store, any vehicle on
grass, dirt, or similar unpaved surface located in the front yard and side yard
of any residence. (Ord. 6150, 2-13-2012)
   H.   Uses Permitted Upon Review Of Special Uses: Uses permitted upon review
of special uses, so designated, within the base zoning district.
   I.   Height Regulations: Heights permitted within the base zoning district.
   J.   Area And Setback Regulations: Area and setback regulations permitted
within the base zoning district.
   K.   Ordinary Maintenance Or Repair Except As Previously Provided: Nothing
in this section shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance or repair of
any structure.
   L.   Historic District Designation Process; Procedure:
      1.   The city may designate tracts and sites for inclusion within the
historic preservation district in the same manner prescribed for the
designation of other zoning districts by this title and subject to compliance
with this section; however, all designations of tracts and sites for inclusion
within the historic preservation district shall be reviewed and considered by
the historic preservation advisory panel. Such panel shall forward its
recommendation regarding a proposed district designation to the planning
commission and board of commissioners.
      2.   Notice of consideration of a district designation by the historic
preservation advisory panel shall be the same as required for consideration of
the adoption or amendment of zoning district boundaries by the planning
commission as such is prescribed in this title.
      3.   The initiation of a proposal of designation may be made by the
panel, the board of commissioners, planning commission, the community
development department or on the application of the owners of the parcel to be
designated or their authorized agents. Any such application shall be made upon
forms or pursuant to standards set by the panel for this purpose.
      4.   The following criteria shall be used in the evaluation for historic
designation:
         a.   Character, interest or value as a part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city of Ponca City, state of
Oklahoma or nation or other society;
         b.   Location of the site of a notable historical event;
         c.   Identification with a person or persons who contributed notably
to the culture and development of the city, state, nation or society;
         d.   Relationship to properties which are significant and preserved or
which are eligible for preservation;
         e.   Embodiment of distinctive elements of architectural design,
detail material or craftsmanship related to a uniqueness to the area or the
related distinctiveness of a craftsman, master builder or architect, or a style
or innovation;
         f.   Archaeological value in the sense that the site has, has
produced, or can be expected to yield, based on physical evidence, information
affecting knowledge of history or prehistory;
         g.   Value as an aspect of community sentiment or public pride; or
         h.   An established, familiar visual feature of the neighborhood,
community or skyline owing to its unique location or singular physical
characteristic.
   M.   Certificate Of Appropriateness:
      1.   Required: Certificate of appropriateness shall be required in the
following instances before the commencement of work upon any structure or site
located within the HP historic preservation district:
         a.   Whenever such work requires a building permit issued by the city;
         b.   Whenever a fence or driveway is constructed beyond the front
building line of a home; or
         c.   Whenever such work includes the erection, moving, demolition,
reconstruction, restoration or alteration of the exterior of any structure or
site, except when such work satisfies all the requirements for "ordinary
maintenance and repair" as defined in subsection B of this section.
      2.   General Provisions And Procedures:
         a.   No building permit shall be issued by the building inspector for
any structure or site location within the HP historic preservation district
until the application for such permit has been reviewed by the panel and a
certificate of appropriateness approved by the panel.
         b.   In all cases that are not "ordinary maintenance and repair" as
defined in subsection B of this section, a certificate of appropriateness shall
be required and an application for such certificate shall be made.
         c.   When applying for a certificate of appropriateness as required in
subsection M2b of this section, the applicant shall provide sufficient
photographs and evidence to adequately show the work proposed.
         d.   When applying for a building permit the applicant shall furnish
two (2) copies of such plans, elevations, perspectives and specifications as
required by a building permit. The building inspector shall forward to the
panel such application for a building permit. Any applicant may request a
meeting with the panel before submitting an application and may consult with
the panel during the review of the permit application.
         e.   Upon review of the application, the panel shall determine, within
forty five (45) days of the date application is made for a certificate of
appropriateness, whether the proposed work is of a nature which will adversely
affect any historical or architectural resource and whether such work is
appropriate and consistent with the spirit and intent of this section. The
panel shall apply the criteria established by this section and based thereon
shall issue or refuse to issue such certificate of appropriateness. If the
panel refuses to issue such a certificate of appropriateness, no permit shall
be issued and the applicant may appeal the decision of the panel to the board
of commissioners by filing a written appeal with the city clerk within ten (10)
calendar days of the denial.
         f.   The panel shall develop such guidelines as it may find necessary
to supplement the provisions of this section and to inform owners, residents,
and the general public of those techniques which are considered most proper for
undertaking work relating to historical and architectural resources. The panel
shall have the opportunity to advise the board of commissioners concerning
provisions in the building, electrical, plumbing, heat and air and housing
codes and other codes which affect preservation work.
         g.   It is not the intent of this section to limit new construction to
any one period or architectural style, but to preserve the integrity of
historical and architectural resources and to ensure the compatibility of new
work constructed in the vicinity. In the case of the disapproval of plans by
the panel, the panel shall state in writing the reasons for such disapproval
and may include suggestions of the panel in regard to actions the applicant
might take to secure the approval of the panel as to the issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness.
         h.   The panel may approve the certificate of appropriateness subject
to certain conditions. Work performed pursuant to the issuance of a certificate
of appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of such certificate, if
any. It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect from time to
time any work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness to assure
such compliance. In the event that such work is not in compliance, the building
inspector shall issue a stop work order. The panel may request by resolution
that the building inspector inspect the work and issue a stop work order.
      3.   Review Criteria: The historic preservation advisory panel shall
utilize those criteria in "Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings (Revised
1983)". The standards are as follows:
         a.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use
for a property which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or
site and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose.
         b.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure or site and its environment should not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible.
         c.   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as
products of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which
seek to create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
         d.   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
         e.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated
with sensitivity.
         f.   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
         g.   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building shall not be undertaken.
         h.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by, or adjacent to, any project.
         i.   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material, and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
         j.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to structures
shall be done in such a manner that if such additions or alteration were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired.
         k.   In addition to the above mentioned criteria, the historic
preservation advisory panel shall use specific design review guidelines which
shall be prepared by the panel to outline the evaluation criteria used in
assessing the appropriateness of proposed project work within the designated
historic districts. These design review guidelines shall be prepared and
amended by the historic preservation advisory panel as part of the regular
duties of the panel and shall be adopted by the panel prior to their
application in the review process.
      4.   Demolitions:
         a.   General Provisions: No structure or resource within any historic
district shall be demolished and/or removed unless such demolition shall be
approved by the historic preservation advisory panel and a certificate of
appropriateness for such demolition and/or removal shall have been granted.
         b.   Procedures And Postponement Orders:
            (1)   The historic preservation advisory panel shall hold a public
hearing for the purpose of considering certificates of appropriateness for
demolition or removal. After such hearing the historic preservation advisory
panel may approve the certificate of appropriateness thereby authorizing the
demolition or may enter an order postponing demolition for not more than ninety
(90) days.
            (2)   At the conclusion of such period of postponement as specified
in the panel's order, the panel shall within forty five (45) days thereafter
hold a second public hearing for the purpose of considering whether or not the
historic preservation advisory panel should recommend to the board of
commissioners that additional postponement of demolition be ordered.
            (3)   In the event the historic preservation advisory panel should
make such recommendation of additional postponement to the board of
commissioners, the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of considering such additional postponement of demolition.
            (4)   After such public hearing the board of commissioners may
enter an order approving the demolition or may enter an order postponing
demolition for an additional period not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date
of such order. At the conclusion of this final postponement period, the board
of commissioners shall hold a public hearing and may either approve the
requested demolition or may disapprove such requested demolition. In the event
demolition is not approved, no demolition shall occur. For purposes of this
section, the word "demolition" shall include "removal".
         c.   Criteria For Review Of Demolition: The historic preservation
advisory panel and board of commissioners shall be guided by the following
criteria in considering certificates of appropriateness and authorizations for
demolition of structures or sites within the historic district:
            (1)   The purposes and intent of this section.
            (2)   The degree to which the proposed removal of the historical
resource would serve to destroy the integrity and continuity of the historic
district of which it is a part.
            (3)   The nature of the resource as a representative type of style
of architecture, socioeconomic development, historical association or other
element of the original designation criteria applicable to such structure or
site.
            (4)   The condition of the resource from the standpoint of
structural integrity and the extent of work necessary to stabilize the
structure.
            (5)   The alternatives available to the demolition applicant,
including:
               (A)   Donation of the subject structure or site to a public or
benevolent agency.
               (B)   Donation of a part of the value of the subject structure
or site to a public or benevolent agency, including the conveyance of
historical easements.
               (C)   The possibility of sale of the structure or site, or any
part thereof, to a prospective purchaser capable of preserving such structure
or site.
               (D)   The potential of such structure or site for renovation and
its potential for continuing same.
               (E)   The potential of the subject structure or site for
rezoning in an effort to render such property more compatible with the physical
potential of the structure.
            (6)   The ability of the subject structure or site to produce a
reasonable economic return on investment to its owner; provided however, that
it is specifically intended that this factor shall not have exclusive control
and effect, but shall be considered along with all other criteria contained in
this section.
   N.   Certificate Of Economic Hardship:
      1.   Application: Application on forms prescribed by the panel for
certificate of economic hardship may be made by the owner or agent for the
owner who has been denied a certificate of appropriateness for any work
specified in this section.
      2.   General Provisions And Procedures: The panel may require that the
applicant for a certificate of economic hardship make submissions concerning
any or all the following information before it makes a determination on the
application:
         a.   An estimate of the cost of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal and estimate of any additional cost that would be
incurred to comply with recommendations of the preservation panel for changes
necessary for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
         b.   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structure on the property
and the suitability for rehabilitation.
         c.   The estimated market value of the property in its current
condition; after completion of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal; after any changes recommended by the preservation
commission and, in the case of a proposed demolition, after renovation of the
existing property for continued use.
         d.   In the case of a proposed demolition, and estimate from an
architect, developer, real estate consultant, appraiser or other real estate
professional experienced in rehabilitation as to the economic feasibility or
rehabilitation or reuse of the existing structure on the property.
         e.   Amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the party
from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner of record or application and the person from whom the
property was purchased, and any terms of financing between the seller and
buyer.
         f.   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two (2) years; itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two (2) years; and depreciation deduction and annual
cash flow before and after debt service, if any, during the same period.
         g.   Remaining balance on any mortgage or other financing secured by
the property and annual debt service, if any, for the previous two (2) years.
         h.   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing or ownership of
the property.
         i.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous two (2) years.
         j.   Assessed values of the property according to the two (2) most
recent assessments.
      3.   Public Hearing Required: After the application for certificate of
economic hardship has been submitted, the panel shall hold a public hearing at
which any person may testify concerning economic hardship.
      4.   Determination Of Economic Hardship: The panel shall review all the
evidence and information required of any applicant for a certificate of
economic hardship and make a determination within forty five (45) days of
receipt of the application whether the denial of a certificate appropriateness
has deprived, or will deprive, the owner of the property of reasonable uses of,
or economic return on, the property. If the panel disapproves such a
certificate of economic hardship, the applicant shall proceed with work only
when issued a certificate of appropriateness as provided in this section. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 12
SIGN REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
11-12-1: Statement Of Purpose And Intent
11-12-2: Regulatory Scope
11-12-3: Definitions
11-12-4: Exceptions
11-12-5: Prohibited Signs
11-12-6: Regulations Applicable To All Signs
11-12-7: Reserved
11-12-8: Off Premises Advertising Signs
11-12-9: On Premises Signs
11-12-10: Temporary Signs
11-12-11: Structural And Electrical Requirements
11-12-12: Enforcement
11-12-13: Permits Required
11-12-14: Application For Permit
11-12-15: Action On Application
11-12-16: Appeals
11-12-17: Revocation Of Permits
11-12-18: Inspections
11-12-19: Identification And Marking
11-12-20: Maintenance
11-12-21: Abandoned, Unsafe And Dilapidated Signs
11-12-22: Amortization Of Nonconforming Signs
11-12-23: Violations
11-12-24: Penalties
11-12-25: Protection Of First Amendment Rights
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 6 of this code.
11-12-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purposes of this chapter include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Create a comprehensive system for the regulation of signs within the
city.
      2.   Serve the public interests in community aesthetics and safety.
      3.   Reduce the visual clutter that can result from inappropriate
signage.
      4.   Assure that the integrity and nature of residential, commercial and
industrial areas are protected from the proliferation of excessive signage.
      5.   Ensure adequate opportunity for persons to exercise their right of
free speech by display of messages on signs.
      6.   Provide sufficient opportunities for identification of businesses,
establishments, and residences.
      7.   Provide for signage which is informative in nature.
      8.   Protect and preserve the character of residential areas by
prohibiting commercial signage in such areas, except as required by state law
or applicable judicial decisions.
      9.   Establish procedures to allow the continued use, maintenance, and
repair of nonconforming historic signs that preserve locally recognized values
of community appearance or that reflect unique characteristics of development.
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-2: REGULATORY SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the installation, alteration,
location, and maintenance of all signs as defined herein, which are located or
installed within the corporate limits of the city, but not on city owned
property or public rights of way. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
given in this section:
    A-FRAME SIGN: A temporary sign which resembles the shape of the letter "A"
in profile view, also referred to as a "sandwich board", "sidewalk board" or
"curb sign".
   ABANDONED SIGN: A sign located on property which becomes unoccupied or
unused for a period of six (6) or more consecutive months, or any sign which
pertains to a business, product, service, event, or purpose which no longer
applies, or a sign structure void of any sign copy and/or panels.
   ALTERATION: Any change of copy, sign face, color, size, shape, illumination,
position, location, construction, or supporting structure of any sign.
   ANIMATED SIGN: A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
Animated signs include the following types:
      1.   Environmentally Activated: Animated signs or devices motivated by
wind, thermal changes, or other natural environmental input. The definition
includes spinners, pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices or displays
that respond to naturally occurring external motivation.
      2.   Mechanically Activated: Animated signs characterized by repetitive
motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric
motors or other mechanically induced means.
   APARTMENT SIGN: A ground sign containing the name of and/or information
about a multi-family dwelling.
   AWNING SIGN: A wall sign consisting of cloth, plastic, or other
nonstructural covering that either is permanently attached to a building or can
be raised or retracted to a position against the building.
   BANNER SIGN: A temporary sign usually of cloth, paper, plastic, light metal,
wood, or other materials that is attached to the ground, to a freestanding
sign, or is mounted to a building.
   BENCH SIGN: Any advertising attached to or painted on a bench that is
located immediately adjacent to and abutting a building for the purpose of
providing seating for customers or citizens.
   BILLBOARD: See definition of Off Premises Advertising Sign.
   CANOPY SIGN: A wall sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign on which copy is changed manually in the field.
   CONSTRUCTION PROJECT SIGN: Any temporary sign used for the purpose of
identifying a new construction project and/or owner, developer, contractor, and
architect located on the property where the advertised use is to be located.
   COPY: Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that, directly or
indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business, product,
service, or other business activity.
   DILAPIDATED SIGN: Any sign, whether permanent or temporary, which is
structurally unsound, has defective parts, has become partially or wholly
detached from its frame or other attachment device, or is in need of painting
or maintenance. A dilapidated sign may be identified by one or more of the
following characteristics: rust or holes in the sign panel, display material,
or sign structure; broken, missing, loose, or bent parts and materials; faded
or flaking paint; nonoperative or partially nonoperative illumination; missing
letters in sign copy, or any sign structure that is void of sign copy and/or
panels.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign which serves to designate the location or direction
of any place or area, principally for pedestrian or vehicular traffic, on the
premises where the sign is located.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN: Any sign containing electrical wiring in, on, or attached
to it or which is intended to be energized by an electrical energy source.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN: Any on premises freestanding sign or portion of a
freestanding sign that uses changing lights to display an electronic image,
video, or text messages. The time and display duration of the messages and/or
images is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic
processes. This definition includes the following types:
      1.   Electrically Activated: Signs producing the illusion of movement by
means of electronic, electrical, or electromechanical input and/or illumination
capable of simulating movement through employment of the characteristics of the
classifications noted below:
         a.   Static: Signs or portions of signs whose illumination is
characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of display is a minimum
of ten (10) seconds or more and the duration between displays is three (3)
seconds or less.
         b.   Flashing: Signs or portions of signs whose illumination is
characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of display is less than
ten (10) seconds.
         c.   Patterned Illusionary Movement: Animated signs or animated
portions of signs whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement
through alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for
the purpose of producing repetitive light patterns, or text designed to appear
in some form of constant motion for a period of three (3) seconds or more.
   FACADE: The side of a building below the eaves.
   FEATHER SIGN: A banner sign usually of cloth, plastic, or similar nonrigid
material used for advertising purposes and attached to the ground, or mounted
to a building not to include official flags, pennants, or insignia of the
United States, the state of Oklahoma, other states of the nation, counties,
municipalities, and official flags of foreign nations.
   FLAG OR PENNANT: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar nonrigid
material used for advertising purposes attached to any structure, staff, pole,
line, framing, not including official flags of the United States, the state of
Oklahoma, and other states of the nation, counties, municipalities, and
official flags of foreign nations.
   GENERAL BUSINESS SIGN: An on premises freestanding sign which directs
attention to a business, product, activity, or service that is conducted, sold,
or offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   GROUND SIGN: A freestanding sign with a solid base directly and continuously
connected to the sign.
   HEIGHT: The vertical distance from finished grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign, excluding decorative embellishments, to the
grade of the adjacent street or the surface grade beneath the sign whichever is
less.
   ILLEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign which was in violation of any of the laws
of the city governing the erection, placement, or construction of such sign at
the time of its erection, and which sign has never been erected or displayed in
conformance with all such laws, including this chapter.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign, except a neon sign, designed to give forth
artificial light or designed to reflect light from one or more sources of
artificial light erected for the purpose of providing light for the sign.
   ILLUMINATION, DIRECT: A lighting by means of an artificial light source,
including neon tubing, which is visible either through exposed lighting on the
sign face or through transparent or translucent material from a light source
within the sign.
   ILLUMINATION, INDIRECT: A sign which does not produce artificial light from
within itself but which is opaque and backlighted or illuminated by spotlights
or floodlights not a part of or attached to the sign itself, or a sign
illuminated from within but with no exposed or exterior bulbs, tubes or other
light source which are not visible to persons viewing the sign from any street,
sidewalk, or adjacent property.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN: A ground sign placed on a premises of an institution
containing the name of and/or information relating to uses such as: public
facilities, schools, religious assembly, hospitals, or government owned
facilities.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN: An existing sign that was lawfully constructed or
installed prior to the adoption or amendment of this chapter, and was in
compliance with all of the provisions of this code then in effect but which
does not presently comply with the provisions of this chapter as they now
exist.
   MONUMENT SIGN: A ground sign that has a solid supporting base equal to or
greater than the width of the sign face, generally made of stone or concrete,
with no separation between the sign and base.
   MULTI-TENANT SIGN: An on premises sign identifying individual businesses
within a commercial building or buildings where the uses share the same lot,
access, and/or parking facilities or a coordinated site plan.
   MURAL: A work of graphic art, as opposed to a sign, that is painted or
applied to a building wall(s) which contains no advertising or logos.
   NAMEPLATE: Any sign which designates the name, using plates, of the person
(s) occupying the premises.
   OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN: A sign, whether freestanding, temporary,
painted on, or attached to a building, which directs attention to a business,
product, accommodation, service, event, or other activity which is conducted,
sold, offered, or provided at a location other than the premises where the sign
is located. Such signs are also commonly known as "billboards", but may include
signs of all shapes and sizes.
   POLE SIGN: A freestanding sign connected to the ground by one or more
supports, where the lower edge of the sign device is separated vertically from
the ground by air.
   POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign identifying, either singly or combined, a
political candidate, slate of candidates, issue, or party. These signs are used
or intended to be used for the display of any announcement, advertisement, or
notice of any individual candidate or slate of candidates for any public office
or similar political purposes.
   PORTABLE SIGN: A temporary sign designed to be transported from place to
place, including, but not limited to, signs transported by means of wheels.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: Any temporary sign which announces the sale, rental, or
lease of property by the owner or real estate company.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The area in the front, side, or rear of a property that has
been dedicated to the public, either by a plat or an easement.
   ROOF: The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure; the structural makeup of which conforms to the roof
structure, roof construction, and roof covering sections of the international
building code.
   ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof of
a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   SETBACK: The minimum allowable horizontal distance from a given point of
line of reference, such as a street right of way, to the nearest vertical wall
or other element of a building or structure.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE: Is defined in chapter 15, "Access Management", of this
title.
   SIGN: All or part of any object, structure, or device intended to be viewed
by the public for advertisement or identification of a business, location,
object, person, institution, organization, product, service, or event by means
of including words, pictures, logos, symbols, colors, motion, illumination, or
projected images. The term "sign" may be used in conjunction with other terms;
for example, "ground" or "roof" to further define the term and usage.
   SIGN AREA: Consists of the entire surface area of the sign on which copy may
be placed. The supporting structure or bracing of a sign is not counted as a
part of the sign face unless such structure or bracing is made a part of the
sign's message. The sign area for a wall sign that contains only letters and no
background is the area of the smallest rectangle which can encompass all words,
letters, figures, emblems, and other elements of the sign message.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: Any part of a sign, including the base, supporting columns
or braces, display surface, or any appendage thereto.
   SITE PLAN: An accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing
conditions on a land parcel as well as depicting details of a proposed
development. Among the features generally found on a site plan are the property
boundaries, existing streets and buildings, as well as utilities and utility
easements.
   STREET FRONTAGE: The length of the property line bordering a public street.
For corner lots, each street property line shall be a separate street frontage.
   SUBDIVISION ENTRY SIGN: A sign integrated into the entrance treatment (i.e.,
entrance wall) with the name of the subdivision or development on one or both
sides of each principal entrance.
   SUSPENDED SIGN: A wall sign suspended from a marquee, canopy, or other
architectural projection of a building as herein defined.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any advertising display which is intended for a temporary
period of display and constructed out of cloth, canvas, cardboard, paper,
wallboard, plywood, metal, or other light temporary material.
   VEHICLE MOUNTED SIGN: A sign mounted or displayed on any truck, bus, car,
trailer, boat or other vehicle which is not actively used as a vehicle.
   WALL SIGN: A sign attached to or painted on the exterior wall of a building
with the display surface of the sign approximately parallel to the building
wall. The definition includes awning signs, canopy signs, facade signs,
suspended signs, and any other sign that otherwise projects from a structure.
   ZONING DISTRICT: Any section of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height and coverage of buildings
and other structures are uniform for each classification of building therein.
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014; amd. Ord. 6215, 11-9-2015)
   B.   When an interpretation is required for any definition that is not
included in this chapter, the code official shall make a determination. (Ord.
6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
except as otherwise specifically indicated:
      1.   Changing the copy of a sign and/or performing maintenance that does
not involve structural changes.
      2.   Civic event signs displayed by any entity for events that may or may
not be cosponsored by the city. The display of such signs shall otherwise
comply with the regulations applicable to all banners. Such signs are displayed
only at the event site.
      3.   Commemorative signs or plaques of historical organizations.
      4.   Directional, warning, or informational signs required or authorized
by law which are erected by federal, state, county, or city officials.
      5.   Flag, emblem, pennant, or insignia of any nation, organization of
nations, state, county or city; any religious, civic, or fraternal
organization; or any educational institution.
      6.   Home occupation signs. (Reference subsection 11-5-1B15 of this
title.)
      7.   Incidental signs showing credit cards accepted, notices of services
required by law, trade affiliations, and the like, attached to a freestanding
sign structure or to a building.
      8.   Murals as defined in this chapter.
      9.   Nameplates, street address signs, and combination nameplate/street
address signs containing no advertising.
      10.   "No Trespassing", "No Parking" and similar warning signs.
      11.   Political signs. (Reference section
11-12-6 of this chapter.)
      12.   Signs displayed on trucks, buses, trailers, or other vehicles which
are being operated or stored in the normal course of a business, such as signs
indicating the name of the owner or business which are located on moving vans,
delivery trucks, rental trucks and trailers, provided that the primary purpose
of such vehicles is not for the display of signs and provided they are parked
or stored in areas appropriate to their use as vehicles.
      13.   Signs that are not intended to be viewed from public streets and/or
beyond the premises and are not legible therefrom such as signs in interior
areas of shopping centers, commercial buildings and structures, ballparks,
stadiums, and similar uses of a recreational or entertainment nature.
      14.   Signs erected during the Christmas holidays as identification of
temporary sales areas for Christmas trees and other holiday oriented items.
Signs shall not be erected before Thanksgiving Day and shall be removed prior
to New Year's Day.
      15.   Temporary displays or logos of a charitable, civic, educational,
political, patriotic, or religious nature.
      16.   Neon signs affixed to the interior window surface of a business
indicating messages, i.e., open, closed, or services on premises. (Ord. 6195,
12-8-2014)
11-12-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   The following types of signs and devices shall be prohibited within the
corporate limits of the city:
      1.   Abandoned, unsafe or dilapidated signs.
      2.   Animals, live or simulated, designed or used so as to attract
attention to the premises or business or services advertised.
      3.   Animated and flashing signs, or signs incorporating patterned
illusionary movement.
      4.   Billboards and off premises advertising signs.
      5.   Garage sale signs placed off premises.
      6.   Mirror devices used as part of a sign.
      7.   Open flames used to attract public attention to a place of business
or to an advertising sign.
      8.   Revolving, rotating, flashing, or blinking beams or beacons of light
as a part of a sign display, including signs in windows or as a device to
attract attention. Flashing or blinking lights that are incorporated into an
electronic message center sign are regulated elsewhere in this chapter.
      9.   Roof signs.
      10.   Vehicle mounted signs.
      11.   Signs placed within intersections.
      12.   Signs continuously outlined with individual light bulbs or string
of lights including lights that outline property lines, sales areas, or any
portion of a structure and are intended to advertise or draw attention to a
business or commercial activity, except lights used temporarily as holiday
decorations, or lights or other devices displayed on parcels on which
carnivals, fairs, or other similar temporary activities are held.
      13.   Signs which emit smoke, visible vapors, sound, or odor.
      14.   In addition to those signs specifically prohibited, any sign not
specifically allowed under these provisions is prohibited. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-
2014)
11-12-6: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SIGNS:
   A.   No sign, regardless of type, size, height or location shall:
      1.   Be placed or erected without the consent of the owner of the real
property or the person or entity in legal possession of the real property.
      2.   Be erected upon or projecting into or over any public property,
public right of way, or public easement, except those signs erected by federal,
state, county, or city officials.
      3.   Be affixed to any structure or pole used for utilities or traffic
controls.
      4.   Be in conflict with or imitate any traffic control device due to
color, wording, design, location, or illumination or otherwise interfere with
the safe and efficient flow of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic.
      5.   Be placed or erected in such a manner that it shall violate the
sight triangle requirements established by chapter 15, "Access Management", of
this title.
      6.   Be located, either temporarily or permanently, in a required parking
space.
      7.   Obstruct access to or from a door, window, fire escape, ventilation
system or other required exit.
      8.   Contain sign area in excess of three hundred (300) square feet.
      9.   Exceed a height of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-8: OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   A.   Except as otherwise stated in subsection B of this section, the
construction, erection, installation, or use of any and all off premises
advertising signs, as defined herein, other than those which legally exist
within the city, or for which a valid permit has been issued and has not
expired, as of the date on which this chapter, or when a prior version of this
chapter containing a provision to the same effect was adopted, is prohibited.
In approving this chapter, the city commission affirmatively declares that it
would have adopted this billboard prohibition even if it were the only
provision in this chapter. The "change of copy" provision applies to properly
permitted, legally existing billboards. To the extent consistent with state
law, existing legal billboards shall not be converted to a more visually
intense method of image presentation, such as converting a flat, static display
to a moving, animated, or changing image LED display. The city commission
intends for this billboard prohibition to be severable and separately
enforceable even if other provision(s) of this chapter may be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, invalid or
unenforceable. This prohibition does not prohibit or limit agreements to
relocate presently existing legal billboards.
   B.   The following off premises signs are exempted from the prohibitions set
out in subsection A of this section: memorial signs; public service signs;
seasonal signs; government signs; flags or insignia of any governmental or
nonprofit organization when not displayed as an advertising device; warning
signs posted by utility or construction companies; commemorative tablets;
markers or monuments constructed by or with the permission of a state
government or a subdivision thereof; signs required by law, statute or
ordinance; decorations or displays of a temporary nature that are associated
with any national, local or religious holiday or celebration. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-
2014)
11-12-9: ON PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Apartment Signs:
      1.   Maximum sign area shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
      2.   Maximum height shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   One sign per street frontage may be permitted.
      4.   Signs may be indirectly illuminated.
      5.   Apartment signs shall only be constructed as ground signs.
   B.   Directional Signs:
      1.   Directional signs are permitted only in commercial and industrial
zoning districts.
      2.   Maximum sign area shall be ten (10) square feet.
      3.   Maximum height shall be three feet (3').
      4.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
   C.   Electronic Message Signs:
      1.   Electronic message center signs are permitted only in commercial and
industrial zoning districts, as well as institutions located in any zoning
district.
      2.   Maximum area shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
      3.   Maximum height shall be twenty five feet (25').
      4.   Signs may be constructed as either ground or pole signs.
      5.   Minimum display duration shall be ten (10) seconds.
      6.   Maximum duration between displays shall be three (3) seconds.
      7.   The maximum brightness level of any sign shall not exceed 0.03 foot-
candle above ambient light.
   D.   General Business Signs:
      1.   General business signs are permitted only in commercial and
industrial zoning districts.
      2.   Maximum sign area shall be one square foot per one linear foot of
street frontage up to a maximum of two hundred (200) square feet for any
individual sign.
      3.   Maximum sign height shall be thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Maximum number of signs allowed per any individual property shall
be:
 
Street Frontage Number Of Signs
Up to 150'      1
151' - 300'     2
301' - 450'     3
451' - 600'     4
601' - 750'     5
751' and over   6
 
      5.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
      6.   Signs may be constructed as either ground signs or pole signs.
      7.   No sign shall be erected within one hundred feet (100') of another
sign.
   E.   Institutional Signs:
      1.   Institutional signs may be permitted in any zoning district.
         a.   Maximum sign area shall be one square foot per one linear foot of
street frontage up to a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet for any
individual sign.
         b.   Maximum height shall be twenty feet (20').
         c.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
         d.   Signs shall be constructed only as ground signs.
   F.   Multi-Tenant Signs:
      1.   Multi-tenant signs located in C-1 local commercial zoning district:
         a.   Maximum sign area shall be one square foot per one linear foot of
street frontage up to a maximum of two hundred (200) square feet for any
individual sign.
         b.   Maximum height shall be twenty feet (20').
         c.   There shall be no more than one multi-tenant sign per street
frontage. There shall be a maximum of one sign per business per multi-tenant
center sign.
         d.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
         e.   Signs may be constructed as either ground or pole signs.
      2.   Multi-tenant signs located in C-2 general commercial and industrial
zoning districts:
         a.   Maximum area shall be one square foot per one linear foot of
street frontage up to a maximum of three hundred (300) square feet for any
individual sign.
         b.   Maximum height shall be thirty five feet (35').
         c.   There shall be no more than one multi-tenant sign per street
frontage. There shall be a maximum of one sign per business per multi-tenant
center sign.
         d.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
         e.   Signs may be constructed as either ground or pole signs.
   G.   Subdivision Entry Signs:
      1.   Maximum sign area shall be sixty (60) square feet.
      2.   Signs shall be located on private property.
      3.   Maximum of one sign per entrance into the subdivision shall be
permitted.
      4.   Signs shall be maintained by a homeowners' association and/or the
developer.
      5.   Signs shall not be illuminated.
      6.   A revocable sign permit may be issued for a ground sign placed at
the entrance to a subdivision or development if the subdivision contains an
"island" within the right of way at the entrances, provided all other
requirements of this chapter are met.
      7.   Sign locations shall be identified on construction plats and record
plats of subdivisions.
   H.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Wall mounted signs are permitted only in commercial and industrial
zoning districts.
      2.   Maximum sign area shall be one square foot per linear foot of
building width.
      3.   Signs that project over a sidewalk or walkway shall be a minimum
height of nine feet (9') above said walkway.
      4.   Maximum height shall not exceed the height of the building roofline.
      5.   One sign per street frontage shall be permitted.
      6.   Signs may be directly or indirectly illuminated.
      7.   Painted wall signs are permitted only in commercial and industrial
zoning districts.
      8.   No sign shall project over any property line, except within the
central business district. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Banner Signs:
      1.   Signs are not permitted in residential zoning districts.
      2.   Signs may be attached to the ground, building, or to a general
business sign.
      3.   Maximum sign area shall be forty (40) square feet.
      4.   Signs shall not be illuminated.
      5.   No individual sign shall be displayed for more than ninety (90)
consecutive days, at which time it shall be removed from the premises and shall
not be relocated or otherwise be displayed for the remainder of the calendar
year.
      6.   No sign shall be placed within fifty feet (50') of another sign.
      7.   Maximum number of signs allowed per any individual property shall
be: (Ord. 6215, 11-9-2015)
 
Street Frontage Number Of Signs
Up to 150'      1
151' - 300'     2
301' - 450'     3
451' - 600'     4
601' - 750'     5
751' and over   6
 
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014; amd. Ord. 6215, 11-9-2015)
   B.   Construction Signs:
      1.   Construction signs may be permitted in any zoning district.
      2.   Maximum height shall be six feet (6').
      3.   Signs shall not be illuminated.
      4.   Signs shall be constructed only as ground signs.
      5.   Construction signs shall not be erected until the building permit is
issued for the project and shall be removed immediately after the issuance of
certificate of occupancy.
      6.   All other construction signs shall be removed immediately after the
completion of the work to which the sign is applicable to.
   C.   Off Premises Advertising Signs:
      1.   Temporary outdoor off premises advertising signs may be permitted
only in accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   No signs shall be placed anywhere within the city without first
obtaining a sign permit.
         b.   Signs shall be displayed for no more than ten (10) consecutive
days.
         c.   No more than ten (10) signs shall be displayed at any given time.
         d.   No more than two (2) permits shall be issued to any person,
business, establishment or entity within any calendar year, with a minimum of
thirty (30) days between the issuance of permits.
         e.   The city manager or his designee is hereby authorized to
immediately remove and impound any sign that is found to be in violation of any
of the above provisions.
   D.   Portable Signs:
      1.   Portable signs are not permitted in any residential zoning district
or in the central business district (CBD).
      2.   Portable signs are not intended to be used permanently unless the
sign is anchored to withstand wind loads as prescribed in the international
building code.
      3.   The use of a portable sign is not permitted if a general business
sign is located on the premises.
      4.   Portable signs may not be illuminated or incorporate animated or
flashing displays.
      5.   A portable sign shall be considered abandoned if the sign copy is in
disarray or the sign is otherwise not being utilized.
   E.   Real Estate Signs:
      1.   Real estate signs are permitted in all zoning districts.
      2.   Sign area is limited to eight (8) square feet in residential zoning
districts.
      3.   Sign area is limited to fifty (50) square feet in all other zoning
districts.
      4.   Signs shall not be illuminated. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-11: STRUCTURAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All signs shall comply with the applicable building codes which are
currently in force within the city. All electrical signs shall be listed and
labeled by an approved electrical testing service and shall be installed by a
licensed sign contractor or electrical contractor registered with the city. The
electrical supply to signs containing electrical components shall comply with
the electrical codes currently in force within the city. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The code official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all
provisions of this chapter. The code official shall appear for and on behalf of
the city in all matters regarding the interpretation and application of this
chapter. Upon giving notice to the property owner and upon proper presentation
of proper credentials, the code official or his authorized representative may
enter at reasonable times any building, structure or premises within the city
to perform any duty imposed on him by this chapter.
   B.   The code official shall examine all applications for permits for
erection of signs, authorize the use of signs which conform to the requirements
of this chapter, record and file all applications for permits with any
accompanying plans and documents, make inspections of all signs in the city,
and make such reports as the city may require. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-13: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to display, construct, erect, relocate, or alter any
permanent sign within the city without first filing with the code official and
obtaining a sign permit. When a sign permit has been issued by the code
official, it is unlawful to change, modify, alter, or otherwise deviate from
the terms or conditions of the permit without prior approval of the code
official. A written record of such approval shall be entered upon the original
permit application and maintained in the files of the code official. (Ord.
6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-14: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   The application for a sign permit may be made by the property owner or
a sign contractor. Such applications shall be made in writing on forms
furnished by the city and shall be signed by the applicant.
   B.   The application may, if necessary, require the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign and of the sign contractor or erector and
the location of the proposed sign structure by address and legal description of
the lot or parcel.
      2.   A site plan and/or survey, drawn to scale, with the following
information:
         a.   The location of the building, structure, or lot to which or upon
which the sign or sign structure is proposed to be constructed, erected,
replaced, altered, attached, or relocated, including the street address.
         b.   The elevation of the building, with dimensions, to which or upon
which the sign is proposed to be attached if sign is to be a building mounted
or painted wall sign.
         c.   The total linear feet of site frontage upon which any
freestanding sign is proposed to be constructed, erected, replaced, altered,
attached, or relocated if sign is a ground mounted or pole sign.
      3.   Technical specifications pertaining to the method of construction
and method of attachment or erection of the sign or sign structure for signs
greater than one hundred (100) square feet or more than twenty feet (20') in
height.
      4.   Calculations demonstrating that the sign structure is designed to
carry all loads in compliance with the international building code.
      5.   A statement of valuation. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-15: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   The code official shall approve, deny or return the application
required by section
11-12-13 of this chapter for more information if the information supplied is
insufficient.
   B.   If the application is denied, the code official shall give written
notice of the denial to the applicant, together with a brief written statement
of the reasons for denial.
   C.   If the application is approved, a sign permit shall be issued upon
complete payment of all required fees. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-16: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals of the denial of a sign permit shall be filed within ten (10)
days after an application is denied. Such appeal shall be filed with the
development services department.
      1.   If the subject matter of the appeal relates to denial of a sign
permit for some matter controlled by the international building code, the
appeal shall be heard by the construction appeals board pursuant to the
procedure provided by the international building code or any other construction
code adopted in replacement of the international building code by this code.
      2.   If the subject matter of the appeal relates to denial of a sign
permit for any other reason, the board of adjustment shall hear the appeal
pursuant to the procedures provided in this code. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-17: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   If the code official finds that work under any permit issued is not in
accordance with the information supplied in the permit application or is in
violation of this chapter or any other applicable provisions of this code, or
should he find that there has been any misrepresentation in connection with the
application for permit, he shall notify the sign owner or erector of such
findings and that the violation must be corrected immediately. If such
correction is not made, the code official shall revoke the permit and serve
written notice thereof upon the sign owner or erector. No person shall proceed
with any part of such work after such notice is received.
   B.   When any permit has been revoked under the terms stated in subsection A
of this section, permit fees shall not be refunded. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-18: INSPECTIONS:
All signs may be subject to inspection by the city. Footing inspections may be
required on the day of excavation for ground mounted, monument, and pole signs.
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-19: IDENTIFICATION AND MARKING:
Each sign erected or remodeled shall have affixed to it a clearly legible
identification plate or sticker stating the name of the person responsible for
its construction and erection, with installation date and permit number
thereon. Electrical signs shall be marked with input amperes at full load
input. All electrical signs shall be listed and labeled by an approved
electrical testing service and shall be installed by a licensed sign contractor
or electrical contractor registered with the city. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-20: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Generally: All signs, including those specifically exempt from this
chapter with respect to permits, permit fees, or other provisions, together
with their supports, braces, connections, anchors, and any appurtenances
thereto, shall be kept in good repair and proper state of preservation. The
display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times. Every sign and the immediate surrounding premises shall be maintained by
the owner or person in charge thereof in a safe, clean, sanitary, and
inoffensive condition, and shall be kept free and clear of all obnoxious
substances, rubbish, and weeds. The code official or his authorized
representative shall inspect and shall have authority to order the painting,
repair, alteration, or removal of any sign which constitutes a hazard to
health, safety, or public welfare by reason of abandonment, dilapidation,
inadequate maintenance, or obsolescence.
   B.   Deterioration: Any cracking, fading, chipping, peeling or flaking of
paint, plastic or glass, or any mechanical, electrical, or structural defect
shall be corrected upon notice by the code official, or shall be removed.
   C.   Changing Parts: The changing of movable parts of signs that are
designed for changes, or the repainting of display matter, shall not be deemed
to be alterations. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-21: ABANDONED, UNSAFE AND DILAPIDATED SIGNS:
Signs of any type applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a
change of ownership or management of such business shall not be deemed
abandoned unless the property remains unoccupied for a period of time greater
than six (6) months, and there is no effort to sell or lease the property to
which the sign pertains, or otherwise utilize the sign for its intended
purpose. Any sign which was erected for an occupant or business unrelated to
the present occupant or business shall also be deemed to be abandoned.
Structural components of abandoned signs may remain while a property is
unoccupied, but any nonstructural message components shall be removed by the
owner of the sign or owner of the premises where it is located. The structural
components shall, during the period of nonuse, be maintained. If said
components become unsafe, dangerous, defective, or otherwise a detriment to the
public health, safety, and welfare of the city, the exception provided above
shall not apply as said structural components shall be deemed to be abandoned
and a public nuisance as defined in section
6-1-2 of this code. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-22: AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Legal Nonconforming Signs: Except as provided below, any sign which was
legally built, erected, and installed in conformance with all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations in effect at the time of installation, and which is in a
state of safe and proper maintenance at the time this chapter is adopted, may
continue in use, even if it does not conform to this chapter or other current
law, subject to the following:
      1.   Enlarged Or Altered: No such nonconforming sign may be enlarged or
altered in a manner which increases its nonconformity.
      2.   Damaged: Should a nonconforming sign be destroyed or damaged to an
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its current replacement cost, it may
be repaired or reinstalled only in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. This provision does not apply in the case of intentional damage, such
as vandalism, to the sign.
      3.   Change In Nature Of Establishment: Should the nature of the
associated establishment change, the use of said sign shall be discontinued,
and any new sign shall be in conformance with this chapter.
      4.   Dilapidated And Unsafe Signs: Any sign which, by virtue of its
physical condition, presents a significant and immediate threat to the public
safety has no grandfathering rights and shall instead be repaired or removed
immediately upon proper notice.
      5.   Relocation: Nonconforming signs may be relocated only pursuant to a
relocation agreement approved by the city commission.
   B.   Electronic Message Signs: The provisions of this section allowing the
continuing use of nonconforming signs shall not apply to electronic message
signs utilizing flashing, patterned illusionary movement, or other lighting
characteristics which would be in violation of this chapter. Such signs shall
be brought into compliance within six (6) months of the effective date of this
chapter.
   C.   Temporary Signs: The provisions of this section allowing the continuing
use of nonconforming signs shall not apply to any temporary sign. Such signs
shall be brought into compliance within six (6) months of the effective date of
this chapter.
   D.   Prohibited Signs: Prohibited signs which at the time of passage of this
chapter were in violation of this code shall not acquire a nonconforming status
under the color and authority of this chapter. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-23: VIOLATIONS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to perform or order the
performance of any act which is contrary to the provisions of this chapter or
to fail to perform any act which is required by the provisions of this chapter.
In case of a continuing violation, each twenty four (24) hour period in which
the violation exists shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-
2014)
11-12-24: PENALTIES:
   A.   It is a public offense, punishable within the jurisdictional limits of
the municipal court:
      1.   For any owner or other person having control of property where a
violation of this chapter exists to permit the same to continue after being
informed of the violation by city officials.
      2.   For any person to install or maintain a sign which requires a permit
therefor without a permit or in violation of the conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
11-12-25: PROTECTION OF FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS:
Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy, any
otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not direct attention to a
business, activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a location not on
the same premises where such business sign is located. (Ord. 6195, 12-8-2014)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-13-1: General Provisions
11-13-2: Design Standards
11-13-3: Recommended Parking Spaces
11-13-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: These regulations are intended to require adequate off street
parking and loading facilities for new land uses and enlargement of existing
uses, proportional to the need created by each use, in order to alleviate
traffic congestion. Design standards are included to ensure the usefulness of
parking and loading facilities, protect the public safety, and, where
appropriate, to mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent land uses.
Except as otherwise noted, the regulations of this chapter shall apply to all
uses in all districts.
   B.   Applicability: The regulations of this chapter apply to vehicular areas
used for the display, parking, or storage. All off street parking and loading
facilities for new, changed, or expanded uses shall be constructed according to
a site plan submitted to the building official and approved as a condition of
the building permit. Any existing building or use hereafter enlarged or
structurally altered to the extent of increasing the floor area or use area
less than or equal to fifty percent (50%) of the existing floor or use area
shall be provided additional off street parking and loading facilities only for
the added floor or use area in conformance with the applicable standards. Any
existing building or use hereafter enlarged or structurally altered to the
extent of increasing the floor area or use area more than fifty percent (50%)
of the existing floor or use area shall be provided additional parking and
loading facilities for the entire building in conformance with the applicable
standards. The provisions of subsection 11-13-2C of this chapter shall apply to
all existing and new parking and loading areas and drives as a condition of
building permits for any remodeling or expansion, as well as for new
construction.
   C.   Location: The entire off street motor vehicle loading facilities
required by this chapter shall be located on the same lot as the principal
building or use being served, and the entire off street motor vehicle parking
facilities required by this chapter shall be located on, or within five hundred
feet (500') of, the property that uses the spaces. Public street and alley
widths shall not be counted in calculating compliance with the five hundred
foot (500') limitation. All off street parking facilities located in an R-1, R-
2, R-2M, or R-3 district shall be intended to serve a use permitted in said
districts. Required parking spaces may be provided in a carport or garage,
provided that such is utilized and maintained in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
   D.   Ownership: The ownership of land upon which the required off street
parking is located shall be the same as the ownership of land on which the
principal use is located, except as may be otherwise permitted in accordance
with the collective parking provisions of subsection 11-13-3A of this chapter.
   E.   Utilization: Required accessory off street parking facilities provided
for the uses hereinafter listed shall be only for the parking of motor vehicles
in operating condition of patrons, occupants, or employees of such uses, and
shall be maintained for the duration of the use requiring such areas. The type
and size of motor vehicles allowed to be parked in accessory off street parking
areas in residential districts shall be limited in accordance with the
applicable provisions of section
11-5-1 of this title. Required accessory off street parking and loading
facilities shall not be used for the sale, display, or storage of merchandise,
except in accordance with section
11-5-3 of this title, nor shall such facilities be used for the storage,
repair, or dismantling of vehicles or equipment for profit.
   F.   Maintenance: All parking and loading facilities, including garages,
shall be maintained to assure desirability and usefulness of the facility. Such
facilities shall be kept free of holes, mud, dust, trash, and other debris, and
shall at all times be available for the off street parking or loading use for
which they are required or intended. Further, all required landscaping and
screening shall be maintained or replaced as necessary to assure continued
conformance with the applicable standards. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-13-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Access: Each required or provided off street parking space shall open
directly upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe
and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space in accordance
with the standards of this chapter and applicable standards of title 11,
chapter 15 (Access Management). Off street loading spaces not abutting a public
street or alley shall be provided an access drive of at least ten feet (10') in
width. Curb cuts on public streets shall be designed, approved, and constructed
in accordance with the city code.
      1.   Standard Parking: Parking areas for full size vehicles shall be
subject to the minimum requirements set forth in
table 11-13-2.1.
TABLE 11-13-2.1, STANDARD PARKING SPECIFICATIONS
                                                             Aisle Width (Feet)
              Stall Width  Aisle Length Per Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle (Feet)       Stall (Feet)     Perpendicular To One-Way Two-Way
                                            Aisle (Feet)
                                                             Aisle Width (Feet)
              Stall Width  Aisle Length Per Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle (Feet)       Stall (Feet)     Perpendicular To One-Way Two-Way
                                            Aisle (Feet)
0°           8.5          23               8                12      24
(parallel)
30°          8.5          17               16.9             11      24
45°          8.5          12               19.4             13.5    24
60°          8.5          9.8              20.7             18.5    24
75°          8.5          8.8              20.5             20      24
90°          8.5          8.5              19               25      25
 
   2.   Small Car Parking: Parking areas designated specifically for compact
cars shall be subject to the minimum requirements set forth in
table 11-13-2.2.
TABLE 11-13-2.2, SMALL CAR PARKING SPECIFICATIONS
                                                             Aisle Width (Feet)
              Stall Width  Aisle Length Per Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle (Feet)       Stall (Feet)     Perpendicular To One-Way Two-Way
                                            Aisle (Feet)
                                                             Aisle Width (Feet)
              Stall Width  Aisle Length Per Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle (Feet)       Stall (Feet)     Perpendicular To One-Way Two-Way
                                            Aisle (Feet)
0°           7.5          20               7.5              12      24
(parallel)
30°          7.5          15               14.5             11      24
45°          7.5          10.6             16.6             13.5    24
60°          7.5          8.7              17.6             18.5    24
75°          7.5          7.8              17.4             20      24
90°          7.5          7.5              16               25      25
 
   3.   Handicapped Parking:
      a.   Car parking spaces for the disabled shall be eight feet (8') wide
minimum and van parking spaces shall be eleven feet (11') wide minimum, shall
be marked to define the width, shall have an adjacent access aisle with a
minimum width of five feet (5'), shall be located in an area not exceeding a
two percent (2%) slope, and shall be located near or convenient to a level or
ramped entrance not exceeding an eight and three-tenths percent (8.3%) slope to
the facility served by the parking space.
      Exception: Van parking spaces shall be permitted to be eight feet (8')
wide minimum where the access aisle is eight feet (8') wide minimum.
      b.   Access aisles shall adjoin an accessible route, shall extend the
full length of the parking spaces they serve, and be marked so as to discourage
parking in them. Two (2) parking spaces shall be permitted to share a common
access aisle.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. Ord. 6337, 12-11-2023)
11-13-3: RECOMMENDED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Computation: The total number of off-street parking spaces provided for
any proposed or expanded use should be proportional to the need created by said
use and the availability of on-street or shared parking nearby. The computation
of parking spaces should be a collaboration between the owner and city staff in
lieu of a standard minimum requirement. The absence of mandatory parking
minimums shall not be intended of be construed to be a waiver of responsibility
by the owner to provide sufficient and adequate parking for his or her
customers and employees. The city reserves the right to require the owner to
seek relief from the Board of Adjustment for a significant reduction in
recommended off-street parking spaces as provided for in section
11-17-7 5. (Special Exceptions)
   B.   Exemptions: Businesses and property located within the Central Business
District are exempt from off street parking requirements.
   C.   Small Car Parking: A proportion of the total spaces for each particular
use may be designated for small cars as set forth in
table 11-13-3.1.
TABLE 11-13-3.1, ALLOWABLE SMALL CAR SPACES
 
Total Spaces Required Maximum Percent Of Small Car  Parking Spaces Allowable
0 – 49              20 percent
50 – 99             30 percent
100 or greater        40 percent
 
   D.   Handicapped Parking: A proportion of the total spaces provided for each
use must be designated for use by the handicapped as set forth in
table 11-13-3.2. One (1) in every six (6) spaces provided for handicapped
parking, but not less than one (1), shall be designated as a van parking space
and shall comply with the design requirements of section
11-13-2 3.
TABLE 11-13-3.2, REQUIRED HANDICAPPED SPACES
 
Total Spaces Required Minimum Number Of Handicapped Parking  Spaces Required
0 – 25              1
26 – 50             2
51 – 75             3
76 – 100            4
Over 100              4 plus 2 percent of total amount over 100 rounded up to
                      the nearest whole number
 
   E.   Off Street Parking: Off street motor vehicle parking spaces accessory
to the various land and building uses shall be provided to equal or exceed the
minimum recommended requirements set forth in
table 11-13-3.3.
TABLE 11-13-3.3, RECOMMENDED MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING
Use Motor Vehicle Spaces Required
Use                                     Motor Vehicle Spaces Required
                                        4 per lane, plus those required for
Bowling alley                           restaurant and other affiliated
                                        facilities
Churches                                1 per 4 seats or 4 persons, based on
                                        maximum use of sanctuary
Commercial establishments and           1 per 300 square feet floor area used
businesses, not elsewhere classified    for retail trade or customer service
                                        area
Community center, theater, commercial   1 per 4 seats or 4 persons capacity,
recreation/amusement, museum,           based on maximum use of all facilities
auditorium, gymnasium                   at the same time
Convalescent/nursing home               1 per 4 resident beds, plus 1 per 2
                                        employees
Daycare facilities                      2 per 3 employees, plus adequate space
                                        for child delivery and pick up
Department/variety stores               1 per 250 square feet of net floor area
Dwellings:
Single-family, two-family, condominium, 2 per dwelling unit
townhouse, and mobile home dwellings
Multiple-family dwellings               2 per dwelling unit
Fraternity, sorority, dormitory         1 per occupant, based on maximum
                                        capacity
Freestanding self-service facilities    2 plus 1 per 100 square feet of
                                        pedestrian floor area
                                        1 per 4 seats or 4 persons capacity in
                                        the largest chapel, plus 1 per vehicle
Funeral parlor, mortuary                maintained on the premises, plus a
                                        queue line capacity of 5 cars not
                                        blocking other required spaces or
                                        access drives
                                        1 per 4 beds, plus 2 per 3 employees,
Hospital                                plus adequate space for emergency
                                        vehicles
                                        2 per guest room; 1 per rental unit,
Hotel, motel                            plus those required for restaurants,
                                        assembly rooms, and affiliated
                                        facilities
Library                                 1 per 300 square feet of net usable
                                        floor area
Manufacturing, industry not             1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
otherwise classified                    area, or 1 per 2 employees if greater,
                                        plus 1 per company vehicle
Medical/dental clinic                   5 spaces per doctor, plus 2 per 3
                                        employees
Office buildings - includes commercial, 1 per 225 gross square feet on the
government, professional, and medical-  first floor, plus 1 per 275 gross
dental                                  square feet on each floor above the
                                        first floor
Private club, lodge, tavern, fraternal  1 per 3 seats or 3 persons capacity,
organization, restaurant without drive  based on maximum use of all facilities
in or takeout                           at the same time, excluding 50 percent
                                        of any outdoor seating
Professional/business office building,  1 per 200 square feet of net floor area
financial institution
Restaurants:
Drive in restaurant                     2 spaces per 3 employees, plus 1 for
                                        each stall or space for vehicle
Restaurant with dine in or take out     1 per 3 seats, based on inside -
facilities                              outside seating
Rooming/boarding house, bed and         1 per room provided for overnight
breakfast                               accommodations
Schools:
Primary school                          2 per classroom or teaching station
Secondary school                        4 per classroom or teaching station
                                        1 per 3 students capacity, based on
Trade/commercial school                 maximum use of all facilities at the
                                        same time
Shopping centers (all uses in)          5 per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        leasable area
                                        1 for employees or customers per 3,000
                                        square feet of open sales lot and
Vehicle sales lot (new or used)         enclosed floor area devoted to the
                                        sales and display, or rental, of motor
                                        vehicles, mobile homes, and trailers
Vehicles service station                2, plus 2 per service bay in addition
                                        to fuel pump access areas
Warehouse, parcel delivery or freight   1 per 2,500 square feet of gross floor
terminal                                area, plus 1 per vehicle maintained on
                                        the premises
 
   F.   Off Street Loading: Every building or structure constructed in any
district for commercial or industrial purposes requiring the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise shall have provided and
maintained on the same lot with such use at least one off street loading space
for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area, or major
fraction thereof. The number of loading spaces may be reduced for a particular
use normally requiring at least three (3) spaces whereby a loading space at
least eleven feet wide and sixty feet long (11' x 60') may be substituted for
two (2) minimum-sized spaces that would otherwise be required.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; Ord. 6337, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 14
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Exceptions And Modifications
11-14-2: Nonconforming Structures, Uses And Lots
11-14-3: Landscaping And Screening
11-14-1: EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Lot Area And Width: No open space or lot area required for a structure
shall, during its life, be occupied by, or counted as, open space for any other
structure. Where no specific minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed
for a use or district, it is the intent of this title that lots be of
sufficient size to provide adequate parking and loading space in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
   B.   Yards And Setbacks: A yard provided for a building or lot shall not be
considered the yard for any other building or lot. Except as otherwise provided
in this title, required yards shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to
the sky. The following exceptions qualify and/or supplement these regulations:
      1.   Zoning District Boundaries: Where a lot in any zoning district
adjoins, along an interior lot line, another zoning district whose yard
requirements are more restrictive than those of the district in which such lot
is located, structures on such lot shall observe the more restrictive
requirements.
      2.   Obstructions In Required Yards: Accessory structures listed in
section
11-5-1 of this title shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in
a required yard if in conformance with the applicable provisions of section
11-5-1 of this title. The following exceptions modify subsection 11-5-1D of
this title:
         a.   Arbors, trellises, statuary, flag poles, and signs permitted by
chapter 12 of this title are exempt from all yard requirements except as may be
applicable to signs in accordance with the provisions of chapter 12 of this
title.
         b.   Children's play equipment and outdoor laundry drying apparatus
are exempt from the minimum interior side and rear yard requirements.
         c.   Detached emergency shelters are permitted within a required front
or side yard, provided that no part of such shelter shall exceed eighteen
inches (18") in height above ground level.
      3.   Projections Into Yards: The following exceptions modify the standard
minimum yard requirements with respect to principal structures:
         a.   Cornices, eaves, shade control devices, and awnings or canopies
over doors and windows may project a distance not exceeding two feet (2') into
the required yard.
         b.   Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding two feet (2'), provided that such features do not occupy, in total,
more than one-third (1/3) of the length of the building wall on which they are
located.
         c.   Fire escapes, and other uncovered stairs and landings may project
a distance not exceeding three feet (3') into required yards.
         d.   Open terraces, decks, and porches not over thirty inches (30")
above the average level of the adjoining ground may project a distance not
exceeding five feet (5') into required yards; provided, that such projection
extends no closer than five feet (5') to any interior side property line.
      4.   Earth Integrated Buildings: Entirely below grade portions of a
building may extend to within five feet (5') of any property line where the
normal minimum yard requirement is greater, provided that such construction
does not encroach upon any dedicated easement; and provided, that such portions
of the building can be constructed and maintained with no nuisance to adjacent
properties. Earth berms may extend to within five feet (5') of any interior
side property line, provided that the exterior wall of the building being
bermed shall be set back from the property line a minimum of five feet (5'),
plus one foot (1') for each one foot (1') of berm height above normal grade.
      5.   Sight Triangle: On any corner lot on which a front yard and exterior
side yard are required, no wall, fence, sign, other structure, vehicle, or
plant growth having a height in excess of three feet (3') above the elevation
of the lowest point of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in
a triangle formed by measuring a distance of thirty feet (30') along both
property lines from their point of intersection and connecting the points so
established to form a triangle; except, however, that a single pole eighteen
inches (18") or less in diameter supporting a permitted sign, or a single tree
trunk may be placed in a sight triangle; provided, that the bottom of the sign
or lowest tree branch when mature is at least twelve feet (12') above the
elevation of the lowest point of the crown of the adjacent roadway.
      6.   Easements: Where a utility, drainage, private drive, or other
recorded easement is wider than a minimum required building setback in the same
location, the building setback from the property line shall be increased to
include all of such easement.
   C.   Lot Coverage: Entirely below grade portions of a building extending
beyond the exterior perimeter of above grade portions of the building shall not
be counted in the lot coverage of the building.
   D.   Height: The following provisions qualify and/or supplement the specific
district regulations:
      1.   Zoning District Boundaries: Where a lot in any zoning district
adjoins, along an interior lot line, another zoning district whose height
limitations are more restrictive than those of the district in which such lot
is located, structures on such lot shall observe the more restrictive height
requirements within one hundred feet (100') of such other district, whereby
such maximum height limitation is to be measured as an elevation based upon the
actual ground level at the zoning district boundary.
      2.   Nonhabitable Structures: Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks,
towers, antennas, solar collectors, and other projections not used for human
occupancy may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the maximum permitted
height prescribed for buildings in the applicable zoning district where such
projections are attached to, or a part of, a building.
      3.   Airport Hazard: All uses in all districts located within a
supplemental airport zone are subject to any more restrictive height
limitations that may be required in accordance with the provisions of chapter
16 of this title.
   E.   Location In Floodplain: The establishment, construction, or alteration
of all uses, structures, and buildings on any property located within a flood
hazard area shall be subject to the provisions of title 10, chapter 10 of this
code.
   F.   Residential Driveways And Parking:
      1.   Circle driveways requiring two (2) points of access from the same
public right of way are prohibited on lots that are less than seventy five feet
(75') in width at the front building line.
      2.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the required front yard must
remain an unpaved, pervious surface. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-14-2: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES, USES AND LOTS:
   A.   Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A nonconforming building or
structure existing at the time of the adoption of this title may be continued
and maintained including reasonable repairs, except as otherwise provided in
this section.
      1.   Alteration Or Enlargement Of Buildings Or Structures:
         a.   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure, including additions
and enlargements, is made to conform to all the regulations of the district in
which it is located; provided however, that if a building or structure is
conforming as to use but not conforming as to yards, off street parking or
height, said building may be enlarged or added to, provided that the
enlargement or addition complies with the yard, off street parking and height
requirements of the district in which said building or structure is located.
         b.   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved, in whole
or in part, to another location on the lot unless every portion of the building
or structure is made to conform to all the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
      2.   Restoration Of Damaged Buildings:
         a.   A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged or
partially destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake, the public enemy or act
of God, to the extent of not more than sixty percent (60%) of its value,
exclusive of its foundations, may be restored and the occupancy or use of such
building may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration is started
within a period of one year and is diligently pursued to its completion.
         b.   In the event damage or destruction exceed sixty percent (60%) of
the value, exclusive of foundations of such nonconforming building or
structure, no repairs or construction shall be made unless every portion of
such building or structure is made to conform to all the regulations for new
buildings in the district in which it is located; provided, however, that any
building or structure that is nonconforming due to off street parking, and is
conforming in all other respects, may be restored regardless of the extent of
damage.
      3.   Changes In Use:
         a.   A nonconforming use of a conforming building (i.e., a commercial
use in a dwelling, etc.) shall not be expanded or extended into any other
portion of such conforming building or structure, nor changed except to a
conforming use. If such a nonconforming use or a portion thereof is
discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any future use of such building,
structure or portion thereof shall be in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which such building or structure is located.
         b.   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed
to a use of the same or a more restricted district classification; but where
the use of a nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of a more
restricted district classification, it shall not thereafter be changed to a use
of a less restricted district classification.
      4.   Building Vacancy: A nonconforming building, structure or portion
thereof which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied for a
continuous period of one year, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use
which conforms with the regulations and requirements of the district in which
said building or structure is located.
   B.   Nonconforming Uses Of Land:
      1.   A nonconforming use of land, existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter, may not be extended or expanded.
      2.   If said nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for
a period of six (6) months, or changed, any future use of such land, or change
in use, shall be in conformity with the provision of the district in which said
land is located. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-14-3: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The following regulations have been adopted for the
purpose and intent of:
      1.   Ensuring minimal conflict between placement of trees and other
landscaping, and both overhead and underground utility lines;
      2.   Providing for landscaping and trees to shade buildings and paved
surfaces and to reduce the amount of runoff, erosion, reflected heat, air
pollution, wind, and noise;
      3.   Improving the attractiveness of Ponca City as a place for economic
growth and the general safety of developments; and
      4.   Providing screening between incompatible land uses.
   B.   Tree Classification: Trees shall be classified by category of small,
medium, and large based on growth characteristics for the purpose of
implementing this title; in the advent of disagreement, the planning commission
shall have the authority to make a determination.
   C.   General Planting And Maintenance Standards: The requirements set forth
in this section are applicable to trees on both public and private property.
      1.   The requirements for tree and other landscape material locations
are:
         a.   Except for areas zoned CBD, or in the case of P districts located
immediately adjacent to a CBD district, trees shall be planted no closer to any
public curb or sidewalk than three feet (3') for small trees, four feet (4')
for medium trees, and five feet (5') for large trees.
         b.   Except for areas zoned CBD, or in the case of P districts located
immediately adjacent to a CBD district, landscaping and trees shall be planted
to maintain clear vision at intersections as illustrated in
figure 11-14-3.1.
         c.   Trees planted in the public right of way must be of a type which
will grow tall enough so that they will not block vision of drivers to see
other traffic, pedestrians, signage, and traffic control devices.
         d.   Landscape material shall be planted in such a way as to not
obstruct access to a fire hydrant, utility meters, or utility poles.
         e.   Only those trees considered small trees may be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within
five (5) lateral feet of any underground water, sewer, electric, telephone,
cable, or natural gas line. Any tree which is planted within a dedicated
easement will be subject to damage, pruning, and removal, as necessary, to
allow full utilization of the easement and maintenance of utilities contained
therein.
         f.   Plant materials being planted to meet landscape requirements of
this title should be planted during the spring or fall months to improve
chances of survival. If all other requirements are met, a certificate of
occupancy will be issued for properties which are developed during the other
times of the year without the landscape materials being installed; provided,
however, that the plant materials must be planted within the first planting
season to following completion of construction. See below for
figure 11-14-3.1.
Figure 11-14-3.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2065.png]
 
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      2.   The following shall be observed in the care of existing trees:
         a.   The city shall have the right to prune, spray, and preserve
trees, plants, and shrubs within the right of way of all streets and alleys,
public grounds, and all public easements as may be necessary to ensure the
safety of city utilities, to protect individuals and properties, maintain
visibility of traffic signals and other traffic warning or directional signage,
or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of the trees, plants, or shrubs.
         b.   Healthy, existing trees and ground cover shall be retained where
feasible, or replaced with suitable vegetation where possible. When development
plans include preservation of existing trees or other vegetation on site during
construction, the building permit plans shall specify the method(s) to be used
to protect the trees or vegetation. No artificial plants, trees, or ground
cover shall be installed to meet the landscaping requirements.
         c.   All required landscaping shall be irrigated by one of the
following methods:
            (1)   An underground sprinkler system.
            (2)   Drip system.
            (3)   A hose attachment within one hundred feet (100') of all
landscaped areas.
Irrigation may be supplemented by directing drainage from paved areas across
landscaped areas, provided, that the same is accomplished in a manner not
likely to result in erosion.
         d.   All landscaped areas adjacent to pavement shall be protected with
curbs or equivalent barriers.
         e.   Required landscaping areas shall be continually maintained free
of debris and litter. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Multiple-Family, Commercial And Industrial Landscape Requirements:
Multiple-family uses shall be considered more than four (4) dwelling units per
lot. All new construction, expansion, or redevelopment within the city for
multiple-family, commercial, and industrial park uses, except in the CBD, shall
provide areas for the planting of trees and other landscape materials. In all
cases, property within this category not being used for a structure, parking
space, driving aisle, open display area, sidewalk, or outdoor storage area
shall be maintained as landscape area.
      1.   The actual minimum landscape area requirements for a development
shall depend on the size of the associated parking area. For parking areas
containing between six (6) and twenty (20) parking spaces, inclusive, the only
landscape area required shall be the parking area setback requirement of
subsection 11-13-2A of this title. For parking areas of more than twenty (20)
spaces the required landscape area shall be equal to at least nine percent (9%)
of the developed portion of the lot which shall include, at a minimum, the five
foot (5') or ten foot (10') landscaped area, as the requirement may be, as
established in subsection 11-13-2A3 of this title. Except as provided below,
the developed portion of the lot shall be considered the entire piece of
property being developed.
         a.   The developed portion of the lot shall not include detention or
compensatory storage areas when detention and/or compensatory storage
requirements are met off of the parking surface.
         b.   When only a portion of a piece of property is being developed,
that portion for future development shall be so designated on the site plan and
will not be included in the development area.
         c.   Property beyond any normal setback requirements which lies within
a 100-year floodplain, or other drainage channels, and which will not be
functioning as part of the detention or compensatory requirements of the site,
may be designated, in whole or in part, as part of the developed area by the
applicant, provided that a sufficient amount of landscape area is distributed
across the entire site. Because each site will be different, it will be up to
the applicant and staff to agree on what is "sufficient" in a given case. In
general, staff will be looking to see that the intent of this title is being
met and that landscaping will not be concentrated away from public portions of
the site. When an agreement cannot be reached, the planning commission shall
make the final determination.
      2.   Landscaping areas within the occupant, customer, and/or employee
parking area(s) of a development, shall be located in such a way as to meet the
following requirements. These requirements do not apply to areas designated for
open display.
         a.   Landscape areas shall be located so that at least sixty percent
(60%) of the trees planted to meet the point requirements on the site can be
located within ten feet (10') of the paved parking area.
         b.   When a parking area is to provide parking for more than one
hundred (100) vehicles, landscape islands shall be provided at the ends of the
rows of parking to separate the parked vehicles from an adjacent driving aisle.
         c.   Landscape areas shall be placed so that at least a portion of
every parking space is within fifty nine feet (59') of the parking area setback
area or another landscape area meeting the minimum area requirement of
subsection D3 of this section. The distance a parking space may be from a
landscape area may be increased by one foot (1') for each additional thirty
(30) square feet of area contained within a landscape area which is surrounded
on all sides by paved parking area, provided, however, that in no case shall
the distance between a parking space and a landscape area exceed eighty feet
(80'). See below for
figure 11-14-3.2.
Figure 11-14-3.2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2067.png]
 
      3.   Landscape area size requirements are described below and illustrated
in
figure 11-14-3.3.
         a.   The width of parking lot landscape areas shall be measured
exclusive of any curbing or bumper blocks.
         b.   The standard, minimum width of a perimeter landscape area shall
be five feet (5'). Internal landscaped areas shall be at a minimum four feet
(4') wide. At the end of a row of ninety degree (90°) parking spaces that are
next to a setback area, the setback area may be reduced to two feet (2') to
facilitate backing out of a parking space. Also, specific points of other
landscape areas may be reduced to as narrow as two feet (2') to meet design
requirements. Landscape areas placed parallel to a parking space, or at the end
of a row of parking spaces shall be no less than two feet (2') shorter than the
paved length of the parking stall. Except for the perimeter buffer strip areas,
landscape areas that have bumper overhang shall have a minimum of four feet
(4') of width in addition to the bumper overhang.
         c.   A landscape area placed parallel to a parking space, or at the
end of a row of parking, shall be a minimum of eighty (80) square feet, if one
parking stall in length; and one hundred sixty five (165) square feet if two
(2) stalls in length. Any other landscape areas shall be a minimum of eighty
(80) square feet in size.
Figure 11-14-3.3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2069.png]
 
      4.   Landscaping definitions.
    BERM: An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
   CALIPER: The diameter of the tree trunk as measured at one foot (1') above
ground level, except where otherwise stated.
   DECIDUOUS: A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
   EVERGREEN: A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year round.
   PHYSICAL SPACE: The existence of natural physical features such as flood
plains, creeks, ponds and open lands that may accomplish the separation of
incompatible land uses.
   SCREEN: A method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly visual
intrusions with less offensive or more harmonious elements such as plants,
berms, fences, walls or any appropriate combination thereof.
   SHRUB: A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
from the ground or small branches near the ground; may be deciduous or
evergreen.
   TREE: A large, woody plant having one or several self- supporting stems or
trunks and numerous branches. May be classified as deciduous or evergreen.
   WOODLAND, EXISTING: Existing trees and shrubs of a number, size and species
that accomplish the same general function as new plantings.
      5.   To provide flexibility in designing the best landscape plan for each
site, no specific materials or locations are required for landscaping by these
regulations.
         a.   Developments shall provide landscape material from the list
below, in any combination, such that the total points received for the
development equal at least fifty (50) points per one hundred (100) square feet
in all other areas.
            (1)   Berms, minimum thirty inches (30") tall - 5 points per ten
(10) linear feet.
            (2)   Turf - 10 points per one hundred (100) square feet.
            (3)   Vegetative ground cover (other than natural turf or sod) - 25
points per one hundred (100) square feet of cover.
            (4)   Small shrubs (mature height of 4 feet) - 25 points each.
            (5)   Large shrubs (mature height over 4 feet) - 50 points each.
            (6)   Trees of one inch (1") caliper or greater at the time of
planting which are classified as: small - 100 points, medium - 150 points,
large - 200 points.
            (7)   Preservation of existing trees will earn the same base points
as new trees based on the size classification of tree. For trees over four inch
(4") caliper, an additional twenty (20) points will be awarded for each inch of
caliper over four (4), up to double the point value of the tree. (For example:
saving a tree which is classified in the large tree category will earn 200
points; if the tree measures to be 8 inch caliper, an additional 80 points will
be awarded.) The diameter of the tree shall be measured at four and one-half
feet (41/2') above the ground.
            (8)   Any plant materials installed to meet the requirements of
this title which die, or are otherwise removed, must be replaced with plant
materials which will earn at least the same number of points. If the
replacement materials are to be located more than twenty feet (20') from where
the previous materials had been, a revised landscape plan shall be submitted to
the community development director for administrative review and approval.
         b.   Site plan designation. Site plans shall be labeled with the
number of square feet contained within each landscape area. The landscaping
shown on site plans shall specify the vegetation according to the categories
listed below. Symbols shall be used to identify planting sites for landscape
materials as designated below, and standard sizes shall be used for trees.
Landscaping in addition to that shown on the site plan is encouraged and will
not be a violation of the site plan. The required site plan designations shall
be:
            (1)   "Berm" and the contour at thirty inches (30") of height for a
berm;
            (2)   "TF" for turf;
            (3)   "GC" for vegetative ground covers;
            (4)   "SS" for small shrubs;
            (5)   "LS" for large shrubs;
            (6)   "ST" and a scaled fifteen foot (15') diameter circle for
small trees;
            (7)   "MT" and a scaled twenty foot (20') diameter circle for
medium trees;
            (8)   "LT" and a scaled thirty five foot (35') diameter circle for
large trees; and
            (9)   "EV" and a scaled twenty foot (20') diameter circle for
evergreen trees.
      6.   Plans submitted for building permits for these developments shall
include the information required by this section in sufficient detail to
evaluate compliance with these regulations. For those developments which
require board of commissioners site plan approval prior to the issuance of a
building permit (planned development site plans, and use permit site plans), a
conceptual landscape plan shall be included with the site plan. The minimum
requirements for this conceptual plan include:
         a.   The location of all landscape area;
         b.   The calculations showing compliance with the minimum landscape
area requirements and what the minimum point requirements are for plan
material;
         c.   An illustration of the concept which will be used in placement of
landscape materials by area across the site (i.e., the approximate number and
size as well as the general location of trees, shrubs, and ground covers); and
         d.   Existing trees which will be preserved.
With any given site plan reviewed by the planning commission and/or board of
commissioners they may reserve the right to review the final landscape plan
prior to issuance of a building permit.
   E.   Visual Barriers: A visual barrier is intended to screen adjacent uses
from the negative aspects of parking areas. Whenever a parking area is located
adjacent to a residential use, a six foot (6') sightproof screen is required to
prevent light and noise generated in the parking area(s) from reaching the
adjacent residential area(s). Sightproof shall mean a solid nonopaque surface
designed to prevent light and noise from traveling through the fence or hedge,
or to reduce significantly light and noise. The full six feet (6') of height
required for a hedge shall be achieved within six (6) months from the date the
sightproof hedge is required. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
CHAPTER 15
ACCESS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
11-15-1: Title
11-15-2: Purposes
11-15-3: Application, Timing, And Nonconformity
11-15-4: Exemptions
11-15-5: Variances
11-15-6: Access To Lots Fronting Principal And Minor Arterial Streets
11-15-7: Measurement Of Access Spacing And Corner Clearance
11-15-8: Minimum Access Connection Spacing Requirements
11-15-9: Minimum Corner Clearance Requirements
11-15-10: Sight Distance Requirements
11-15-11: Access Dimensions
11-15-12: Number Of Access Points
11-15-13: Common Access And Internal Cross Access
11-15-14: Easements
11-15-15: Right Turn Lane Requirements
11-15-16: Capacity And Design Standards
11-15-17: Internal Pedestrian And Bicycle Connections
11-15-18: Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA)
11-15-1: TITLE:
This is the PONCA CITY, OKLAHOMA ACCESS MANAGEMENT CHAPTER. It may be referred
to as the "access management chapter" or as "this chapter". (Ord. 6124, 6-28-
2010)
11-15-2: PURPOSES:
   A.   Generally: The purpose of this chapter is to establish site access and
design standards to ensure that new development, redevelopment, expansion,
reconstruction, or improvement of existing buildings enhance the safety and
function of individual sites and the city's street system.
   B.   Traffic Safety And Access Management: Traffic safety and access
management associated with collector streets and principal and minor arterial
streets are the primary concerns of this chapter. Therefore, this chapter
specifies the standards to improve the safety, function, and traffic carrying
capacity of the city's thoroughfares. Furthermore, it outlines the regulatory
provisions regarding site ingress and egress, as well as the circulation
within, between, and across development sites in a manner that is consistent
with the policies and objectives set forth in chapter 4, transportation, of the
Ponca City comprehensive plan 1 . (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. The comprehensive plan was adopted by the city commission on June 22,
  2009.
11-15-3: APPLICATION, TIMING, AND NONCONFORMITY:
   A.   Applicability: No land shall be developed, redeveloped, expanded,
reconstructed or improved except in accordance with the applicable provisions
of this chapter. All the following are considered "development" that is subject
to the applicable requirements of this chapter:
      1.   The use of any building, structure, or land, which includes the
establishment of a new use or uses; changes in use; building construction,
reconstruction or improvement; building or site expansions; and/or any material
change(s) to the functional or operational characteristics of an existing use
or uses.
      2.   Any division of land for land development and/or a transaction of
sale or lease, whether by subdivision, a metes and bounds division by separate
instrument, or any other land division or subdivision.
   B.   Access Permit Required: No person shall develop, redevelop, expand,
reconstruct or improve a parcel without first obtaining an access permit from
the city. An applicant shall submit to the city an application and an access
construction plan, which shall accurately describe the location of the proposed
access connection pursuant to the specifications required by this chapter and
all other standards and requirements of the city.
   C.   Timing Of Compliance With This Chapter:
      1.   Any new development, redevelopment, expansion, reconstruction, or
improvement of existing buildings or sites, and/or division or subdivision of
land that occurs after the adoption date of this chapter shall comply with the
standards and requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Properties with access drives that were constructed prior to the
adoption date of this chapter and that do not meet the standards and
requirements of this chapter shall, to the greatest possible extent, conform to
the provisions of this chapter when any of the following apply:
         a.   Modifications or improvements are made to the collector street or
principal or minor arterial street adjacent to the property; or
         b.   Modifications or improvements are made to the property that would
require any of the following:
            (1)   An access permit is required by the city (see subsection 9-2-
6A, "Permit Required; Fee", of this code);
            (2)   A driveway agreement is required by the Oklahoma department
of transportation (ODOT);
            (3)   Site plan review is required (see section
11-17-3, "Site Plans", of this title);
            (4)   Land subdivision is required (see title 12, "Subdivision
Regulations", of this code);
            (5)   A building permit is required;
            (6)   A traffic impact assessment (TIA) is required (see section
11-15-18, "Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA)", of this chapter); or
         c.   A site experiences the lesser of a twenty percent (20%) increase
in peak hour trips or an increase of one hundred (100) vehicles per peak hour,
as determined by one of the following methods:
            (1)   A traffic study conducted on behalf of the property owner or
agent;
            (2)   An estimation of peak hour trip volume that is based on the
latest published edition of the Institute Of Traffic Engineers (ITE) "Trip
Generation" manual; or
            (3)   Actual trip counts conducted during the peak hour of a
typical weekday.
   D.   Nonconformity: If the principal activity on a parcel with access
connections that do not meet the regulatory provisions of this chapter is
discontinued for a period of one year or more, then upon establishment or
reestablishment of any use or uses, the parcel must comply with all applicable
standards and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Subsequent Development: Planned unit developments (PUDs) shall be
controlled by the provisions of chapter 10, "Planned Unit Developments", of
this title. The regulatory provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
subsequent phases of development requiring land subdivision, substantial
amendment of the approved development plan, and/or phases of development
requiring subdivision approval or a zoning map amendment.
   B.   Prior Approval: Any development granted approval by the board of
commissioners prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be controlled by the
development standards in place at the time of approval. However, if
construction or building permits have not been applied for and granted within
six (6) months of that approval, the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Confirmation Of Hardship: In case the application of the standards and
requirements of this chapter to a particular parcel would create an unnecessary
hardship peculiar to the size, location, configuration, or other factors that
affect the specific subdivided or unsubdivided parcel abutting a principal or
minor arterial street, an applicant may request a variance from the standards
and requirements of this chapter, provided:
      1.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter or the
comprehensive plan; and
      2.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Application: Variances shall be requested at the time of filing an
application for subdivision, an access permit, site plan review, or a building
permit.
   C.   Applicable Circumstances: Circumstances by which a variance may be
granted include:
      1.   A parcel abutting a principal or minor arterial street that is of a
size, location, or configuration that cannot reasonably comply with the
standards and requirements of this chapter;
      2.   A parcel under individual ownership abutting a principal or minor
arterial street for which no other feasible or reasonable means of access is
available;
      3.   A parcel under individual ownership that is adjacent to an
undeveloped parcel(s) under separate ownership for which a reasonable offer of
common access and internal cross access was declined by the adjacent landowner
(s); or
      4.   A parcel under individual ownership that is adjacent to an
undeveloped parcel which includes a notation on a subdivision plat or records a
covenant by separate legal instrument ensuring that internal cross access will
be provided and access will be consolidated into a common, single access upon
development of the adjacent parcel. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-6: ACCESS TO LOTS FRONTING PRINCIPAL AND MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS:
No new single-family or two-family lots shall be created by subdivision that
front on a principal or minor arterial street. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-7: MEASUREMENT OF ACCESS SPACING AND CORNER CLEARANCE:
   A.   Generally: This section applies to all uses except single-family and
two-family developments.
   B.   Measurement Of Access Spacing: The minimum spacing requirement is
measured parallel to the edge of the travelway, from the nearest edge of
pavement of the first access connection to the nearest edge of pavement of the
second access connection, as illustrated in
figure 11-15-7, "Access Spacing Measurements", of this section. Access points
include private streets, driveways, and service road entrances.
FIGURE 11-15-7: ACCESS SPACING MEASUREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2071.png]
 
   C.   Measurement Of Corner Clearance: For uses located on corner lots, there
shall be a minimum clearance from the nearest edge of pavement of the first
access connection to the nearest edge of pavement of the intersecting street,
as illustrated in section
11-15-9,
figure 11-15-9, "Corner Clearance Spacing", of this chapter. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-
2010)
11-15-8: MINIMUM ACCESS CONNECTION SPACING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: There shall be a minimum spacing between the nearest edges of
pavement of adjacent access connections along collector streets and principal
and minor arterial streets, as provided in
table 11-15-8, "Minimum Access Spacing", of this section. (Refer to section
11-15-7,
figure 11-15-7, "Access Spacing Measurements", of this chapter.)
TABLE 11-15-8: MINIMUM ACCESS SPACING
 
Posted Speed Limit  Principal Arterial  Minor Arterial (Feet) Collector (Feet)
(Miles Per Hour)    (Feet)
30                  290                 260                   245
35                  310                 280                   260
40                  340                 305                   285
45                  380                 340                   315
50                  425                 380                   345
55                  480                 420                   380
 
Source: Transportation research board (TRB) "Access Management Manual",
copyright 2003.
   B.   Access Spacing, Opposite Sides Of Street: To prevent conflicting left
turn movements, the centerlines of access connections on opposite sides of a
street shall either align, or shall be offset by a minimum distance of one
hundred fifty feet (150'). This provision shall not apply where a permanent
median exists without break for these access connections. (Refer to section
11-15-7,
figure 11-15-7, "Access Spacing Measurements", of this chapter.)
   C.   Alternatives: Where no other alternatives exist, construction of an
access connection may be allowed in a location farthest from an intersection
and the next nearest access connection. To provide safe, adequate access in
this circumstance, consideration shall be given to a right in/right out only
access connection, if feasible. In such case, the applicant shall demonstrate
conformance with section
11-15-13, "Common Access And Internal Cross Access", of this chapter.
   D.   Increased Spacing Requirements: The city may require access spacing
that exceeds the minimums required in
table 11-15-8, "Minimum Access Spacing", of this section in circumstances
warranted by the volume of truck traffic or other operating characteristics of
the site. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-9: MINIMUM CORNER CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Corner Clearance: There shall be a minimum spacing between the nearest
edge of pavement of an access connection and the nearest edge of pavement of
local, collector, or principal and minor arterial streets, as provided in
table 11-15-9, "Corner Clearance", of this section. In certain circumstances,
such as, but not limited to, intersection approaches with left or right turn
bays greater than one hundred feet (100') in length, the city may require
additional clearance lengths.
TABLE 11-15-9: CORNER CLEARANCE1
       Arterial Street           Collector Street                    
Posted (A) Upstream (B)          (A) Upstream (B)          (C)       (D)
Speed  From         Downstrea m  From         Downstrea m  Approach  Departure
Limit  Intersection From         Intersection From         On Local  On Local
(mph)  (Feet)       Intersection (Feet)       Intersection (Feet)    (Feet)
                    (Feet)                    (Feet)
       Arterial Street           Collector Street                    
Posted (A) Upstream (B)          (A) Upstream (B)          (C)       (D)
Speed  From         Downstrea m  From         Downstrea m  Approach  Departure
Limit  Intersection From         Intersection From         On Local  On Local
(mph)  (Feet)       Intersection (Feet)       Intersection (Feet)    (Feet)
                    (Feet)                    (Feet)
   3305          245          205          245
   3365          280          265          260
   4440          305          340          285
   4520          380          420          340          100       120
   5605          425          505          380
   5700          480          600          420
   6805          540          705          470
 
Notes:
1.   Refer to
figure 11-15-9, "Corner Clearance Spacing", of this section for the lettered
dimensions.
Source: Transportation research board (TRB) "Access Management Manual",
copyright 2003.
FIGURE 11-15-9: CORNER CLEARANCE SPACING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2073.png]
 
Note: Refer to
table 11-15-9, "Corner Clearance", of this section for the lettered dimensions.
(Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-10: SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intersections: No sign, fence, wall, hedge, or shrub planting which
obstructs sightlines shall be placed or permitted to remain at any driveway/
street intersection or street/street intersection, as provided in
table 11-15-10, "Sight Distance Requirements", of this section.
TABLE 11-15-10: SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
                (B) Distance Required For  (B) Distance Required For Right
                Left Turn From Driveway/   Turn Or Crossing From Driveway/
Posted          Intersection               Intersection
Speed  (A)
Limit  Driver's Entering Entering Entering Entering 2- Entering 4- Entering 5-
(mph)  Eye From 2-Lane   4-Lane   5-Lane   Lane (Feet) Lane (Feet) Lane (Feet)
       Edge Of  (Feet)   (Feet)   (Feet)
       Roadway
                (B) Distance Required For  (B) Distance Required For Right
                Left Turn From Driveway/   Turn Or Crossing From Driveway/
Posted          Intersection               Intersection
Speed  (A)
Limit  Driver's Entering Entering Entering Entering 2- Entering 4- Entering 5-
(mph)  Eye From 2-Lane   4-Lane   5-Lane   Lane (Feet) Lane (Feet) Lane (Feet)
       Edge Of  (Feet)   (Feet)   (Feet)
       Roadway
25              280      295      315      240         260         280
30              335      355      375      290         310         335
35              390      415      440      335         360         390
40     14.4     445      470      500      385         415         445
45              500      530      565      430         465         500
50              555      590      625      480         515         555
55              610      650      690      525         565         610
60              665      705      750      575         620         665
 
Design Parameters: Exiting driver's eye height is 3.5 feet above pavement. Top
of object on the street equals 3.5 feet above pavement.
Left turn sight distance is required for each direction (left and right).
Source: AASHTO "A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", 2001.
FIGURE 11-15-10: SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVEWAYS AND STREET
INTERSECTIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2075.png]
 
   B.   Shade Tree Exception: Shade trees are permitted to overhang the
specified triangles, provided that all branches are not less than eight feet
(8') above the street level. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-11: ACCESS DIMENSIONS:
   A.   General: The dimensions of access connections are based on the peak
hour trip generation volume of the use(s) to which access is to be provided.
Peak hour trips may be allocated to one or more access connections. A qualified
engineer shall provide the calculations for the peak hour trip generation and
the assignment of generated trips to individual access connections. Single-
family and two-family uses are not required to provide trip generation and
assignment calculations by a qualified engineer.
   B.   Single-Family And Two-Family Residential Lots: Each single- family or
two-family residential lot shall have no more than the maximum allowable width
of access connection(s), as provided in
table 11-15-11A, "Maximum Width Of Access Connections", of this section.
TABLE 11-15-11A: MAXIMUM WIDTH OF ACCESS CONNECTIONS
 
Use Classification        Standard (Maximum Width) Maximum Access Width (Feet)
                          1 car garage             12
Single-family residential 2 car garage             22
                          3 car garage             30
Two-family residential    Two, 1-car garages       24
                          Two, 2-car garages
 
   C.   Standard Dimensional Requirements: The access standards of
table 11-15-11B, "Access Connection Standards", of this section, apply to
developments in all districts other than single-family and two-family lots.
TABLE 11-15-11B: ACCESS CONNECTION STANDARDS
 
                                           Return Radii By Street Functional
            Maximum    Access      Access  Classification
Access Type Peak Hour  Lanes And   Throat  Principal Or
            Volume     Lane Widths Length  Minor        Collector  Local (Feet)
                                   (Feet)  Arterial     (Feet)
                                           (Feet)
                       12 feet
Low volume  <50 trips  ingress;    25      30           20         15
                       12 feet
                       egress
                       14 feet
                       ingress;
Mid volume  <200 trips 4 foot      50      30           20         15
                       median;
                       Two 12-feet
                       egress 1
                       14 feet
                       ingress;
High volume <500 trips 4 foot      100     35           30         20
                       median;
                       Two 12-feet
                       egress1
 
Note:
1.   Only 1 egress is required if the access connection is configured for right
in/right out only access.
   D.   Measurement Of Access Throat Length: The access throat length indicated
in
table 11-15-11B, "Access Connection Standards", of this section and illustrated
by
figure 11-15-11, "Measurement Of Access Spacing", of this section, is measured
from the property line to the nearest edge of the first parking space or
internal drive aisle.
FIGURE 11-15-11: MEASUREMENT OF ACCESS SPACING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2077.png]
 
   E.   Alternative Design: The city may require that access connections must
be configured as right in/right out only access when the provision of left turn
access would cause an unsafe condition or impede traffic flow on the public
street. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-12: NUMBER OF ACCESS POINTS:
   A.   General: The maximum number of access connections allowed is the fewest
necessary to accommodate the peak hour trip generation of a site. By way of
example, a use generating three hundred (300) peak hour trips (refer to section
11-15-11,
table 11-15-11B, "Access Connection Standards", of this chapter), must be
served by one high volume access connection rather than six (6), low volume
access connections. In no case shall the cumulative width of access connections
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the length of real property that fronts the
abutting street right of way. In certain circumstances, the city may allow
additional access connections pursuant to submittal and acceptance of a traffic
impact assessment (refer to section
11-15-18, "Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA)", of this chapter). Circumstances
warranting consideration of additional access connections include:
      1.   Conformance with the access spacing and corner clearance
requirements;
      2.   Access to an adjacent street of lesser functional classification;
      3.   Primary access to the site is via the streets of lesser functional
classification;
      4.   The number of access connections along the principal or minor
arterial frontage is reduced;
      5.   Provision of right in/right out only access connections;
      6.   Existence of a median to limit left turn movements; and
      7.   Safe operating conditions and unimpeded traffic flow.
   B.   Limitation: Nothing in this section supersedes the other access
management requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-13: COMMON ACCESS AND INTERNAL CROSS ACCESS:
   A.   Separate Ownership; No Common Plan Of Development: Where adjacent
properties are separately owned and not part of a common plan of development,
the city may require common access and/or internal cross access as permits are
issued for the parcels to be developed, redeveloped, expanded, reconstructed,
or improved. As such, an applicant may be granted individual access if:
      1.   The parcel conforms to the access spacing standards and requirements
of this chapter; or
      2.   The applicant demonstrates that a reasonable offer of common access
and internal cross access was declined by the adjacent landowner; or
      3.   The applicant records a notation on a subdivision plat or records a
covenant by separate legal instrument, in a form acceptable by the city
attorney, ensuring that internal cross access will be provided and access will
be consolidated into a common, single access upon the earlier of:
         a.   Approval for development, redevelopment, expansion,
reconstruction, or improvement of the adjacent property, if providing such
common access is a requirement of the approval for the adjacent property; or
         b.   The applicant's parcel and the adjacent parcel come under common
ownership; or
         c.   The applicant demonstrates that the proposed access will not
materially affect the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
   B.   Common Ownership Or Common Plan Of Development: Phased development,
development sites under the same ownership, and/or development sites that are
consolidated for the purposes of development and comprised of more than one
building are considered unified parcels. With the exception of gas stations,
unified parcels shall provide access connections to out parcels by internalized
streets using a shared circulation system and designed to avoid excessive
movement or queuing across parking or drive aisles. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-14: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Terms: Common access and/or internal cross access easements shall
include one or more of the following:
      1.   Sufficient width to accommodate two-way access between parcels,
designed to accommodate passenger vehicles and both service and loading
vehicles.
      2.   Stub streets or other design features to allow abutting parcels
future internal cross access. (See
figure 11-15-14, "Stub Street Example", of this section.)
FIGURE 11-15-14: STUB STREET EXAMPLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2079.png]
 
      3.   Connection to internal cross access drives of abutting or adjacent
parcels.
   B.   Change In Tenancy: Upon a change in use or tenancy, the city may
require that an obstructed or blocked common access or internal cross access
connection be made available for public use and recorded as an easement.
   C.   Approval And Recording Of Easements:
      1.   Access that is shared by adjacent parcels, whether under individual
or separate ownership, requires a legal instrument in a form acceptable to the
city attorney and recorded of official public record by the applicant to ensure
continuous shared access. The recorded book and page number shall be referenced
on any subsequent subdivision plats of the subject parcel(s).
      2.   If there is an existing shared access for which there is no official
public record, at the time of filing an application for subdivision, an access
permit, site plan review, or a building permit, such documentation shall be
executed and recorded as provided in subsection C1 of this section. (Ord. 6124,
6-28-2010)
11-15-15: RIGHT TURN LANE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirement Of Right Turn Lane: The city may require a dedicated right
turn deceleration lane in the following circumstances:
      1.   The street that provides access to the subject site has a posted
speed limit of forty five (45) miles per hour or greater and the peak hour
right turn volume is one hundred (100) vehicles per hour (VPH) or greater.
      2.   The street that provides access to the subject site has a posted
speed limit less than forty five (45) miles per hour and the peak hour right
turn volume is one hundred twenty five (125) vehicles per hour (VPH) or
greater.
      3.   The projected right turn volume is less than one hundred (100)
vehicles per hour (VPH) but the site has unique conditions to consider
including, but not limited to:
         a.   High crash incidence;
         b.   Heavier than normal peak flow movements on the adjacent public
street;
         c.   Large volume of semitractor trailer and/or service vehicle
traffic; and/or
         d.   Limited sight distance. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-16: CAPACITY AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Generally: Stacking spaces are used to measure the capacity of vehicles
in drive-in or drive-through lanes providing direct access to a service window
or station. A stacking space measures eight feet (8') in width by twenty feet
(20') in length. The position in front of a service window or station (e.g,
automated teller machine [ATM], fast food drive-through window, or station at a
drive-through bank) is counted as a stacking space.
   B.   Requirements: Uses that include drive-in or drive-through service shall
have no less than the minimum number of stacking spaces provided below:
      1.   Financial institutions, convenience stores, pharmacies, and similar
uses: Four (4) stacking spaces per drive-through station.
      2.   Drive-in or drive-through restaurants:
         a.   If one service window is provided (for both payments and pick
up):
            (1)   Six (6) stacking spaces for each menu board; and
            (2)   Five (5) stacking spaces between the menu board and the
service window.
         b.   If two (2) service windows are provided (1 for payments and 1 for
pick up):
            (1)   Four (4) stacking spaces for each menu board;
            (2)   Four (4) stacking spaces between the menu board and the first
window (including the position at the first window); and
            (3)   Two (2) spaces between the first window and the second
window, including the position at the second window. (Refer to
figure 11-15-16, "Illustrative Stacking Requirements", of this section.)
FIGURE 11-15-16: ILLUSTRATIVE STACKING REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2081.png]
 
      3.   Drive-through only uses in buildings with less than three hundred
(300) square feet of floor area and no separate menu board (e.g., coffee
stands, photo processing, and similar uses): Three (3) stacking spaces per
service window.
      4.   Dry cleaners: Two (2) stacking spaces, including the position at the
window.
   C.   Design:
      1.   Stacking lanes shall be clearly marked and shall not share or
interfere with on site or off site traffic circulation.
      2.   Stacking areas shall not be located such that they interfere with
the ingress or egress to/from the site or disrupt the safe circulation of the
site.
      3.   Stacking lanes shall have a minimum pavement width of twelve feet
(12') and shall be designed with a bypass lane with a pavement width of ten
feet (10'). (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-17: INTERNAL PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Generally: All development shall provide for on site pedestrian
walkways to and between:
      1.   Public entrances to each building on the site, including out parcel
buildings;
      2.   Parking and vehicular use areas; and
      3.   Sidewalks or walkways on adjacent parcels that extend to the shared
boundary with the subject development.
   B.   Bicycle Access: Bicycle access shall be provided to any existing or
designated bicycle paths or routes located adjacent to or within the subject
development.
   C.   Connections: Connections shall be made at points necessary to provide
direct pedestrian and bicycle travel from the subject development to major
pedestrian destinations located within the adjacent neighborhood(s). In order
to provide direct pedestrian connections to these adjacent destinations, the
city may require additional sidewalks, walkways, or bicycle paths or lanes not
associated with a street, or the extension of a sidewalk from the end of a cul-
de-sac to another street or walkway. These improvements shall also include
sidewalk connections from external sidewalk systems to internal connections
within a development. Major pedestrian destinations include, but are not
limited to, single- or multiple-family residential neighborhoods, public or
private schools or daycare facilities, parks and open spaces, places of
shopping and employment, neighborhood or community centers, and other public,
civic, or institutional uses.
   D.   Identification: Pedestrian walkways and crosswalks shall be marked
according to standards acceptable to the city, and meeting the standards set
forth in the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD), as amended
from time to time.
   E.   Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA): Pedestrian walkways shall comply
with the latest requirements of the Americans with disabilities act, as amended
from time to time. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
11-15-18: TRAFFIC IMPACT ASSESSMENT (TIA):
   A.   Generally: New development, redevelopment, expansion, or improvement of
existing sites or buildings that may result in additional peak hour or average
daily trips that exceed the thresholds set forth in subsection B of this
section, shall include a traffic impact assessment according to the
methodologies set forth in subsection C of this section.
   B.   Thresholds: A traffic impact assessment is required when any of the
following thresholds are exceeded by a subject development:
      1.   The average daily trips (ADT) generated by the subject development
exceeds one thousand (1,000) ADT;
      2.   The P.M. peak hour trip generation exceeds two hundred fifty (250)
trips per P.M. peak hour;
      3.   A residential development includes a net of more than one hundred
(100) new dwelling units;
      4.   In the estimation of the city the subject development will cause an
adjacent street or the nearest intersection(s) to operate at level of service
LOS D; or
      5.   The adjacent street or nearest intersection(s) currently operate at
LOS D.
   C.   Methodologies: Traffic impact assessments shall be prepared in
accordance with the city of Ponca City guidelines for traffic impact studies.
   D.   Required Amendment Of Traffic Assessment: The city may require an
amendment of an earlier traffic impact assessment or may require a new traffic
impact assessment if any of the following thresholds are met or exceeded:
      1.   Changes to a proposed development increases the average daily or
peak hour trips by fifteen percent (15%) or more than the original assessment;
      2.   An earlier completed traffic impact assessment is more than two (2)
years old, unless the city determines that conditions have not significantly
changed; or
      3.   The locations, types, and/or numbers of access connections for the
subject development have changed.
   E.   Conditions Of Approval: The city may condition the approval of a
proposed or subject development to sustain the level of service standards of
streets impacted by the development. The city may authorize phased development
that requires street, intersection, access, signalization, or other
improvements necessary to maintain a level of service commensurate with the
timing and scale of development proposed for each phase. (Ord. 6124, 6-28-2010)
CHAPTER 16
AIRPORT HAZARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-16-1: General Provisions
11-16-2: Airport Zones, Height And Land Use Limitations
11-16-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish and
provide minimum standards for development within areas designated as being
within the airport zones of the Ponca City regional airport; to regulate and
restrict the height of structures and objects of natural growth in the vicinity
of the Ponca City regional airport; to create appropriate zones and establish
the boundaries thereof; to provide for changes in the restrictions and
boundaries of such zones; and to adopt the Ponca City regional airport zoning
map and procedures for its enforcement. The standards, requirements, and
regulations, as herein provided, are intended to protect human life and health;
property; and future development of airport properties.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions, unless the context otherwise
requires, shall be used in this chapter:
    AIRPORT: Ponca City regional airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION: One thousand seven feet (1,007') above mean sea level.
   AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION: Ponca City planning commission.
   APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
subsection 11-16-2E of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach
surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set
forth in section
11-16-2 of this chapter.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The Ponca City board of adjustment.
   CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides
with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   JOINT AIRPORT ZONING BOARD: A board consisting of two (2) members appointed
by each governmental subdivision lying within the airport overlay district
delineated on the Ponca City regional airport airspace plan map. Said
governmental subdivisions are Noble County, Ponca City, Newkirk and Kay County.
A chairperson shall be elected by a majority of the eight (8) members so
appointed all as authorized by title 3, Oklahoma Statutes, section 101 through
115.
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than twelve thousand five
hundred (12,500) pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in subsection 11-16-2E of
this chapter.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS), a precision approach
radar (PAR) or precision global positioning (GPS) approach capabilities. It
also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so
indicated on an approved layout plan or any other planning document.
   PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary
surface is set forth in subsection 11-16-2D of this chapter. The elevation of
any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally
from the edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90°) angles to the
extended runway centerline.
   TREE: Any object of natural growth. (Ord. 6085, 5-27-2008)
11-16-2: AIRPORT ZONES, HEIGHT AND LAND USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Administration And Enforcement: The development services director of
the city of Ponca City, or his/her designee, is hereby appointed to administer
and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Applicability: No structure or tree shall be erected, nor any use
commenced on any land lying beneath the approach, transitional, horizontal, and
conical surfaces applicable to the Ponca City regional airport except as
permitted under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Airport Zone Supplemental District: There is hereby established a
supplemental overlay district, designated AZ for all property in the city of
Ponca City which falls within the airport zones established in subsection 11-
16-2D of this section. The boundaries of this zone are taken from the Ponca
City regional airport airspace plan map and shown on the official zoning map of
the city of Ponca City.
   D.   Airport Zones: In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying beneath the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces
applicable to the Ponca City regional airport. Such zones are shown on the
Ponca City regional airport airspace map consisting of three (3) sheets,
prepared by Barnard Dunkelberg & Company, Inc., dated March, 2007, which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof. An area
located in more than one of the following zones shall be considered to be only
in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are
hereby established and defined as follows:
      1.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is one
thousand feet (1,000') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000') at a horizontal distance of fifty
thousand feet (50,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Transition Zones: Are hereby established adjacent to each instrument
and noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on the airport airspace
maps.
      3.   Horizontal Zones: Are hereby established by swinging arcs of five
thousand feet (5,000') radii for all noninstrument runways and ten thousand
feet (10,000') for all instrument runways from the center of each end of the
primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing
lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach
or transitional zones.
      4.   Conical Zone For Instrument And Noninstrument Runway: Is hereby
established as the area that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone
and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of four thousand feet
(4,000'). The conical zone does not include the instrument and noninstrument
approach zones and transition zones and horizontal zone.
   E.   Height Limitations: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
structure(s) shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree(s) shall be
allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of
the applicable height herein established for such zone. Such applicable height
limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as
follows:
      1.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: Slopes fifty feet (50')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand
feet (10,000') along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward forty
feet (40') horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal
distance of forty thousand feet (40,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Transition Zone: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface, and
extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits
sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of
and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they
intersect the conical surface. Further, where the precision instrument runway
approach zone projects through and beyond the conical zone, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface,
and extending a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from the
edge of the instrument approach zone measured at right angles to the extended
runway centerline.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the established airport elevation.
      4.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
      5.   Excepted Height Limitation: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the
land.
   F.   Use Limitations: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this chapter
in such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals
or radio communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of any aircraft intending
to use the airport.
   G.   Nonconforming Uses: Uses located within the area covered by the
provisions of these regulations and existing prior to the effective date of
this chapter, shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed in this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any
change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the
construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of
this chapter, and is diligently prosecuted.
      2.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the joint airport
zoning board to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall
be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the city of Ponca
City.
   H.   Permits: Permits shall be required for the erection of any structure or
tree within the area covered by these regulations as provided for below:
      1.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections H1a, H1b
and H1c of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land,
no structure shall be erected or otherwise established and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit shall have been applied for
and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with subsection H4 of this section, and with the requirements as
outlined in chapter 17, "Administration And Enforcement", of this title.
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
      2.   Excepted Height Limitation: Nothing contained in any of the
foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit
any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree in
excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter except as set
forth in subsection E5 of this section.
      3.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the building
official or his designee determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has
been abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically
deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such
structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate
from the zoning regulations.
      4.   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this section, may apply to the
board of adjustment for a variance. The application for a variance from such
regulations shall be accompanied by a determination from the federal aviation
administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, no application for variance to the
requirements of this chapter may be considered by the board of adjustment
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the administrative
agency for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the
administrative agency does not respond to the application within thirty (30)
days after receipt, the board of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny
said application.
      5.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and
maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary.
If deemed proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to
require the owner to permit the city of Ponca City, at its own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
   I.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, or reconstruct any building or
structure, or occupy or change the use of any building, structure, or site, in
a manner which violates any provision of this section. The building official
shall send by registered mail or personally deliver to the owner of the
property, responsible occupant of the property, or other party responsible for
any violation, a written notice of such violation. If the violation is not
voluntarily corrected within five (5) days of receipt of notification, the
responsible party shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor offense.
   J.   Penalties: Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order,
or ruling promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and, if
prosecuted in the municipal court of Ponca City be punishable by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or incarceration for not more than
thirty (30) days or both; and if prosecuted in the district court of Kay
County, be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or incarceration for not more than one year or both, or other remedies as
allowed by law; and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 6085, 5-27-2008)
CHAPTER 17
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-17-1: Enforcement
11-17-2: Public Hearings
11-17-3: Site Plans
11-17-4: Special Use Permits
11-17-5: Map Amendments
11-17-6: Text Amendments And Changes
11-17-7: Special Exceptions
11-17-8: Variances; Board Of Adjustment
11-17-9: Appeals
11-17-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Building Official: It shall be the duty of the building official, or
his/her designee, to administer and enforce these regulations and to refuse to
issue any permit for any building or structure or the use of any premises which
would violate any of the provisions thereof. The building official, or
designee, shall have the authority to issue citations to persons who violate
these regulations or any other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 5916,
8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Building Permit: Except as may be otherwise exempted by the city code,
it shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter, move, remodel,
or reconstruct any building or other structure, including accessory structures
listed in subsections 11-5-1B2 through B10 of this title, until the building
official has issued a building permit certifying that the plans and intended
use of the land, buildings, and other structures are in conformity with this
title and all other applicable codes. Administration and enforcement of
building permits shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the current
international building code, as adopted and amended in title 10, chapter 1 of
this code. In addition to the normal application requirements, the building
official may require the applicant to furnish one or more of the following:
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
      1.   Scale drawing or supplemental data pertaining to the structure's
compliance with any specific provision of this title, including the attached
exhibits;
      2.   A declaration of the existing or intended use of each structure,
building, or part of building, including number of dwelling units, if
applicable;
      3.   Information with regard to neighboring lots that may be necessary to
determine compliance with this title; and
      4.   Evidence of a properly executed and approved formal site plan if
required by section
11-17-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   Accessory buildings may be regulated by private covenants that are
more restrictive than city ordinances. Prior to the issuance of a building
permit for an accessory building, notice shall be provided by mail to the
owners of property lying within three hundred feet (300') of the subject lot
for the purpose of alerting neighborhood residents to the pending permit
application. Notice shall not be required for the placement of accessory
buildings containing less than two hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
(Ord. 6170, 5-13-2013)
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No structure or addition thereto requiring a
building permit for construction, alteration, moving, remodeling, or
reconstruction shall be occupied for any purpose, and no vacant land shall be
used for any purpose except agriculture, and no use of any land or structure
shall be changed to any other use, unless a certificate of occupancy shall
first have been obtained from the building official certifying that the
proposed construction, use, or occupancy complies with all provisions of this
title and all other applicable codes. Administration and enforcement of
certificates of occupancy shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the
international building code, as adopted and amended in title 10, chapter 1 of
this code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
   D.   Inspection: The building official may examine, or cause to be examined,
all buildings, structures, and sites for which an application has been filed
for a permit in accordance with this section, and any building, structure, or
site about which a complaint is received from a citizen or public official
concerning an activity occurring without a required permit or in violation of
any other applicable provision of this title. The building official shall have
the authority to enter at any reasonable hour any building, structure, or
premises for the purpose of inspection under the provisions of this section.
   E.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, or reconstruct any building or
structure, or occupy or change the use of any building, structure, or site, in
a manner which violates any provision of this title. The building official
shall send by registered mail or personally deliver to the owner of the
property, responsible occupant of the property, or other party responsible for
any violation, a written notice of such violation. If the violation is not
voluntarily corrected within the time period allotted by notification, the
responsible party shall be in violation of this title and punished to the full
extent allowed by law. Written notification of a violation shall not be
necessary when, in the opinion of the building official, the violation creates
an immediate health or safety hazard to people or property. In these
situations, the building official may issue a citation or cause a complaint to
be filed without giving prior notice to the violator.
   F.   Appeal: Any person may appeal a determination of the building official,
or apply for a variance from the provisions of this title, in accordance with
the requirements of sections
11-17-8 and
11-17-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-17-2: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Requirement: A public hearing required by any provision of this title
shall be conducted by the authorized body in accordance with the notice and
procedural requirements of this section.
      1.   Public hearings for zoning map amendments, zoning text amendments,
special use permits, PUD final development plans, mobile home park site plans
shall be held by the board of commissioners. Only one public hearing shall be
required when two (2) different applications requiring public hearings for the
same property are considered together by the board of commissioners.
      2.   Public hearings for zoning variances, special exceptions, and
appeals shall be held by the board of adjustment.
   B.   Application: Requests for each action requiring a public hearing listed
in subsection A of this section shall be initiated by submitting the following
documentation to the community development department :
      1.   Completed application on the appropriate form furnished by the
community development department;
      2.   Legal description of the subject property (for all applications
except zoning text amendments and appeals);
      3.   List of names and mailing addresses of all owners of property within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the subject property (for
all applications except zoning text amendments and appeals). (Ord. 5916, 8-9-
1999; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Filing fee, as required by the appropriate provisions of this
chapter related to the individual types of applications.
   C.   Notice: Public notice of each public hearing (except minor variances)
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. For all
applications except zoning text amendments and appeals, notice shall also be
given in writing by mail to all owners of property within a three hundred foot
(300') radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property (owners of
adjacent property, only, for special exceptions and minor variances), to the
applicant, subject landowner, and any other party requesting such notice.
Required notices shall be published and mailed at least twenty (20) days prior
to a public hearing to be held by the board of commissioners, and at least ten
(10) days prior to any public hearing to be held by the board of adjustment,
and shall contain at a minimum the following information:
      1.   Legal description of the subject property and the street address or
approximate location in the city (for all applications except zoning text
amendments and appeals);
      2.   The present zoning classification and use of the property (for all
applications except zoning text amendments and appeals);
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the application(s) or action(s)
to be considered including the zoning classification sought by the applicant in
the case of a zoning map amendment;
      4.   The date, time, and place of the public hearing; and
      5.   A map showing the location of the subject property with respect to
surrounding lots, and identifying abutting streets, railroads, and waterways,
as applicable.
   D.   Procedure: Each public hearing shall be preceded by a report from city
staff concerning the general nature of the application and specific information
as necessary to explain relevant conditions, requirements, findings, or
historical background. Following each public hearing the recommendations of
city staff and any relevant commission, board, or committee shall be presented.
Action on each request shall be taken in accordance with the appropriate
provisions of this chapter related to the individual types of applications.
When more than one application for the same property is considered in a single
public hearing, the different applications may be acted upon together or
separately at the discretion of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-
1999)
11-17-3: SITE PLANS:
   A.   Requirement: Site plans required for special use permits and
preliminary development plans submitted concurrently with the application for
approval of a supplemental planned unit development (PUD) zoning district on
the same property, are always considered concurrent with the respective special
use permit, or zoning map amendment actions and, therefore, do not require
separate compliance with the application and review procedures of this section.
For other site plans not requiring a public hearing, no permit shall be issued
for a new structure or an extension or exterior improvement of an existing
structure until such site plan has been submitted, reviewed, and approved in
accordance with this section.
   B.   Exemptions: The community development director may waive the
requirements of this section for "minor structures" and "minor improvements",
as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   C.   Application: Site plans must, at the time of submittal, be accompanied
by the appropriate completed application form and supporting documentation
required for public hearings as listed in subsection 11-17-2B of this chapter.
The filing fee for all site plans and PUD final development plan applications
shall be an amount established by the board of commissioners. The filing fee is
not refundable.
   D.   Required Documents For Submittal: A site plan application shall consist
of the following documents which, if approved, shall be evidence of conformance
with the requirements described in these regulations, as well as serve as the
basis for review and approval of the development plan by the TRC (technical
review committee), the planning commission and board of commissioners:
      1.   Procedural Checklist: This form will be supplied to the applicant at
the preapplication conference and is used to aid in facilitating orderly
development of a site plan proposal.
      2.   Site Development Plan: The site plan is a graphic representation of
the proposed development, and the following items are required to be included.
The site plan may be shown on one or more sheets depending on the size and
complexity of the proposal, or depending on the desire of the applicant to
present the landscaping items separate from the primary site plan elements.
         a.   Name and address of property owner of record and developer, if
different;
         b.   Graphic scale, north point, date, and legend;
         c.   Statement and/or signature by registered architect, landscape
architect, engineer, or surveyor certifying that the plan has to the best of
his/her knowledge, been designed in accordance with the master plan and
applicable city ordinances and regulations;
         d.   Written legal description of the site, including the size of the
property in acres;
         e.   Length of boundaries of the tract measured to the nearest foot;
         f.   Location and identification of abutting subdivisions, and
relationship with airport approach zone, flood hazard area, or city limits, if
applicable;
         g.   Existing physiographic characteristics including contour lines at
two foot (2') intervals and identification of natural watercourses,
floodplains, and wooded areas;
         h.   Proposed grading, where different from existing contours;
         i.   Location and size of existing and proposed easements, utilities,
and public rights of way;
         j.   Location and typical cross sections of all proposed public and
private streets;
         k.   Location, orientation, area, and height of existing and proposed
buildings and other structures;
         l.   Location and dimensions of proposed lot lines;
         m.   Approximate intensity of residential uses, if any, expressed by
number of dwelling units per acre;
         n.   Location and identification of land use types, including common
areas and facilities that are to be owned and maintained privately;
         o.   Location, arrangement, and dimensions of off street parking and
loading spaces, and access drives;
         p.   Location of fences and pedestrian walkways;
         q.   Location, area, height, and orientation of any signs not attached
to buildings;
         r.   Location and type of solid waste disposal equipment, with
screening materials shown or noted;
         s.   A storm water study, including location of all drainage channels,
subsurface drainage structures, and detention plan;
         t.   A landscape plan demonstrating compliance with section
11-14-3 of this title;
         u.   A site plan proposing one acre or more in (disturbed) area shall
be accompanied by a general permit OKR10 (erosion control plan) approved by the
ODEQ (Oklahoma department of environmental quality);
         v.   A separate written request, as applicable, for any of the
foregoing items to be waived or amended, with necessary explanations to justify
the request;
         w.   Site plans prepared by CAD drawings shall be submitted in digital
format, along with ten (10) paper copies.
   E.   Public Improvements: All public improvements proposed on the site plan
shall conform to the applicable engineering standards, codes and regulations of
the city of Ponca City. The standards and requirements contained in title 12 of
this code shall be applicable for all publicly dedicated improvements within or
adjacent to the site, regardless whether or not it is being subdivided.
   F.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, site plans
and PUD final development plans shall be reviewed by the technical review
committee and the planning commission for compliance with this title, other
relevant provisions of this code, the master plan, and potential beneficial and
adverse affects of the proposed development to the neighborhood and general
welfare of the city. The findings and recommendations of the planning
commission shall then be reported to the board of commissioners. Upon required
notice being given, the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing in
accordance with the provisions set forth in section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the proposed site plan or PUD final
development plan, receive comments from interested parties, and receive the
recommendation of the planning commission.
   G.   Approval: The board of commissioners shall approve, approve
conditionally, return to the planning commission for further study, or
disapprove the site plan or PUD final development plan. In the case of any
action other than approval, the board of commissioners shall state the reasons
for its action. As a condition of approval, the board of commissioners may make
additional requirements or restrictions as it deems appropriate including, but
not limited to, requirements relating to building setbacks, drainage, buffers,
light pollution, noise pollution, architectural compatibility, or signage to
minimize the adverse effects of the development on the neighborhood and general
welfare of the city. As a condition of approval, the board of commissioners may
require improvements to be installed or bonded in accordance with title 12 of
this code. Approval of a site plan or PUD final development plan shall be
documented by signatures of the chairman of the planning commission and the
mayor.
   H.   Amendment: Any change, erasure, modification, revision, or deviation
from an approved site plan or PUD final development plan shall be considered
invalid and a violation of the provision of this section unless said change,
erasure, modification, revision, or deviation shall have first been reviewed
and approved according to the notice and procedural requirements set forth in
this section for new site plan applications. (Ord. 6034, 1-9-2006)
11-17-4: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Requirement: The uses identified as special uses in tables 11-6-2.1,
11-7-2.1, 11-8-2.1 and 11-9-2.1 for each zoning district are so classified
because such uses are considered to be more intensive than, or may otherwise
not be compatible with, certain uses permitted by right in the zoning district,
but the nature of the special uses may make it desirable that they be allowed
to locate therein where such special uses or nearby uses permitted by right are
not adversely affected by one another. All uses classified as a special use in
a zoning district are subject to the provisions of this section, which are
established to determine those situations and conditions under which the use
may be integrated with other land uses located in the district near a specific
site in question.
   B.   Application: Consideration of approval of a special use permit for any
special use is initiated by submittal of the appropriate completed application
form and supporting documentation required for public hearings as listed in
subsection 11-17-2B of this chapter. The filing fee for special use permit
application shall be established by the board of commissioners, no part of
which is refundable. The application shall also be accompanied by a site plan
drawn to an appropriate scale and containing at a minimum the following items
of information:
      1.   Dimensions of the site, including easements and rights of way, and
location with respect to streets and adjacent properties;
      2.   Dimension of buildings and location with respect to property
boundaries;
      3.   Location and type of signs, fences, landscaping, outdoor light
fixtures, drainage structures, and other existing or proposed outdoor features
including, where the landscaping required for the proposed use falls into the
requirements of subsection 11-14-3D of this title, a conceptual plan as
required by this section;
      4.   Location, arrangement, dimensions, and paving material of off street
parking and loading spaces, access drives, and pedestrian walkways;
      5.   Number of residential dwelling units, if any, per structure; and
      6.   Any other physical features or characteristics which may be unique
to the property or particular use proposed.
   C.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, special use
permit site plans and specific aspects of proposed uses shall be reviewed by
the city staff and the planning commission for compliance with this title,
other relevant provisions of the city code, and the master plan. The effect of
the proposed special use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities, drainage, and other matters related to the
general welfare may also be considered. The finding and recommendations of
staff and the planning commission shall then be reported to the board of
commissioners. The planning commission may recommend approval, conditional
approval, or disapproval, or may continue consideration until a later date and
request that the applicant provide additional information as may be necessary.
Upon required notice being given, the board of commissioners shall hold a
public hearing in accordance with the provisions of section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the special use permit application and site
plan, receive comments from interested parties, and receive the recommendations
of staff and the planning commission.
   D.   Approval: The board of commissioners shall approve, approve
conditionally, or disapprove the special use permit. In the case of any action
other than approval, the board of commissioners shall state the reasons for its
action. Special use permits may be granted for such period of time, and with
such requirements or conditions as the board of commissioners deems
appropriate. Approval of a special use permit shall be documented by the
signature of the presiding officer of the board of commissioners, together with
certification by the city clerk, on a permit form attached to the original
application. Said form shall also contain a written description of any special
requirements imposed as a condition of approval of the special use. The
approved site plan shall always be considered a conditional part of the special
use permit.
   E.   Amendment: Any deviation from the approved special use permit during
the term of the use shall be considered invalid and a violation of the
provisions of this section unless said deviation shall have first been
submitted and approved according to the notice and procedural requirements set
forth in this section for new special use permit applications.
   F.   Validity: No special use permit approved by the board of commissioners
shall be valid for a period longer than one year from the date granted unless
within such one year period a building permit is obtained for the erection or
alteration of a structure, or an occupancy permit is obtained and the use
commenced, as approved for the special use permit. Once an approved special use
is commenced it shall be valid until such use of land or buildings is
discontinued for a period of one year or more, or until the expiration of any
time limit placed on the use by the board of commissioners as a condition of
approval. A special use permit which expires due to the provisions of this
subsection shall be considered invalid and such special use shall be prohibited
until the special use is reviewed and approved according to the notice and
procedural requirements set forth in this section for new special use permit
applications. An approved special use permit shall be considered a map
amendment and shall be filed of record in the county courthouse. (Ord. 5916, 8-
9-1999)
11-17-5: MAP AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The zoning district boundaries created under the authority
of this title and shown on the official zoning map may be amended to change the
zoning classification on one or more properties by the board of commissioners
in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such amendment may be
initiated by the board of commissioners on its own motion, upon the
recommendation of the planning commission to the board of commissioners, or
upon application by a property owner or authorized representative.
   B.   Application: Consideration of a request by a property owner, owners, or
authorized representative for an amendment to the official zoning map is
initiated by submittal of the appropriate completed application form and
supporting documentation required for public hearings as listed in subsection
11-17-2B of this chapter. The filing fee for map amendment applications shall
be established by the board of commissioners, no part of which shall be
refundable. Requests initiated by the planning commission or board of
commissioners are exempt from the filing fee requirement.
   C.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, or upon
direction from the board of commissioners, the proposed change in zoning
classification shall be reviewed by the city staff and the planning commission
for compliance with this title, other relevant provisions of the city code, and
the master plan. Other matters which may also be determined include the effect
of development under the proposed classification on traffic conditions,
utilities, and other public services, and whether every use that would be
permitted on the property if it were reclassified would be compatible with uses
permitted on other property in the immediate vicinity. The findings and
recommendations of city staff and the planning commission shall then be
reported to the board of commissioners. Upon required notice being given,
including that required by subsection D of this section, the board of
commissioners shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of
section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the proposed zoning map amendment, receive
comments from interested parties, and receive the recommendations of city staff
and the planning commission.
   D.   Additional Notice: In addition to the notice requirements of subsection
11-17-2C of this chapter, a sign shall be posted on the subject property by
city personnel twenty (20) days prior to the public hearing by the applicant.
The sign and lettering thereon shall be of sufficient size so as to be clearly
visible and legible from the public street or streets toward which it faces.
The notice shall state that a public hearing will be held by the planning
commission and board of commissioners to consider rezoning the property, and
shall contain a statement giving the address and phone number of the community
development department where additional information is available concerning the
requested zoning classification, and the date, time, and place of the public
hearing.
   E.   Exemption From Notice: The notice requirements for posting a sign on
the property and for notification by mail to property owners shall not apply to
comprehensive redistricting of the city due to adoption of a new zoning map and
text by the board of commissioners. All other public hearing and notice
requirements of this chapter, however, shall remain applicable.
   F.   Protest: If a written protest against a proposed map amendment is filed
in the office of the city clerk three (3) or more days before the time of said
public hearing, which protest is signed by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
or more of the area of lots included in the proposed change, or by the owners
of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property, exclusive of public
streets and alleys, then such amendment shall not become effective except by
the favorable vote of at least four-fifths (4/5) of all the members of the
board of commissioners. For purposes of protest calculations, all public
property within a three hundred foot (300') radius of the property seeking a
map amendment shall be split, with one-half (1/2) of the public property deemed
to be protesting said map amendment and one-half (1/2) of the public property
deemed to be acquiescing in said map amendment.
   G.   Approval: The Board of Commissioners shall approve or deny the request
for a zoning map amendment. Approval shall be documented by corresponding
changes in zoning district boundaries and designated on the official zoning
map, and by passage and publication of an ordinance pursuant to the applicable
provisions of the City Charter and this Code.
   H.   Reapplication: A request for a zoning map amendment for which a public
hearing has been held by the Board of Commissioners and disapproved, or an
application for such amendment which is withdrawn after it has been advertised
for public hearing, shall not be reconsidered for the same property, or portion
thereof, within six (6) months following such denial or withdrawal. This
provision shall not be interpreted to prohibit the Board of Commissioners from
initiating a change in the zoning classification for all or a portion of the
same property on its own motion or on recommendation of the Planning Commission
within said one year period of time. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-17-6: TEXT AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES:
   A.   Authority: The regulations and provisions herein established as the
text of the zoning ordinance may be amended by the Board of Commissioners in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Such amendment may be initiated
by the Board of Commissioners on its own motion, upon the recommendation of the
Planning Commission to the Board of Commissioners, or upon submittal of a duly
signed and acknowledged petition by the owners of fifty one percent (51%) or
more of the land in an area requesting an amendment of the regulations
prescribed for such area.
   B.   Application: Consideration of a request by property owners for an
amendment to the zoning text is initiated by submittal of the appropriate
completed application form. The filing fee for text amendment applications
shall be set by the Board of Commissioners, no part of which shall be
refundable. Requests initiated by the Planning Commission or Board of
Commissioners are exempt from the filing fee requirement.
   C.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, or upon
direction from the Board of Commissioners, the proposed change in the text of
the zoning ordinance shall be reviewed by the City staff and the Planning
Commission as to consistency with the intent and purpose of this title and the
master plan, and the nature of any changes in the zoning district or districts
affected which make the proposed amendment necessary. The findings and
recommendations of staff and the Planning Commission shall then be reported to
the Board of Commissioners. Upon required notice being given, the Board of
Commissioners shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of
section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the proposed zoning text amendment, receive
comments from interested parties, and receive the recommendations of City staff
and the Planning Commission.
   D.   Approval: The Board of Commissioners shall approve or deny the proposed
text amendment. Approval shall be documented by corresponding changes in the
zoning text, and by passage and publication of an ordinance pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the City Charter and this Code. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-17-7: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Authority: Pursuant to the powers provided in this Code, the Board of
Adjustment may grant special exceptions to the terms of this title for the
following items, subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards in harmony
with its general purpose and intent, and provided that all other provisions,
regulations, and requirements of this Code shall be satisfied:
      1.   Ingress and egress to a contractor's office or equipment shed on a
construction site must be from arterial or collector streets; except, however,
the Board of Adjustment may approve, as a special exception, a location with
access to a minor street upon finding that such location would result in less
traffic on streets in residential areas (see subsection 11-5-3B2 of this
title).
      2.   A contractor's office or equipment shed on a construction site may
continue for a period not to exceed one year in the same location, unless
extended as a special exception by the Board of Adjustment (see subsection 11-
5-3B2 of this title).
      3.   Any real estate office for activities incidental to the marketing of
properties in a subdivision in which the office is located may remain for two
(2) years or until ninety percent (90%) of the properties therein have been
sold, whichever is sooner, unless an extension of the period shall have been
granted as a special exception by the Board of Adjustment (see subsection 11-5-
3C2 of this title);
      4.   Conversion of existing residential structures to a nonresidential
use other than administrative and professional offices, child daycare centers,
low and moderate impact institutional, or indoor cultural uses, as described in
subsections 11-4-2C1, C6, E5, E6, and E8 of this title, is prohibited in all
nonresidential and nonagricultural districts except as may otherwise be
determined, as a special exception, by the Board of Adjustment that such
conversion would be in the best interests of preserving an architecturally
significant or structurally sound building meeting all code requirements (see
subsection 11-5-4B of this title).
      5.   The Board of Adjustment may reduce parking requirements as a special
exception by the Board of Adjustment if it can be demonstrated that a
collective parking facility can adequately serve two (2) or more uses while
having fewer spaces than the total of the separate requirements for each use. A
long term lease agreement or permanent parking covenant may be required to
ensure that parking will be available to each use sharing the collective
facility (see subsection 11-13-3A of this title). (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
      6.   A manufactured home which complies and meets the structural
requirements of the International Residential Code may be approved as a special
exception, provided appropriate conditions and performance standards are
imposed upon the applicant to ensure the home is compatible in value and
quality with the neighborhood in which it is to be placed. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-
1999; amd. Ord. 5951, 7-9-2001; Ord. 6071, 12-10-2007)
      7.   An accessory building or structure to be constructed on a lot or
tract of land comprising an area of one acre or more may exceed the bulk
standards of subsection 11-5-1D of this title, provided that such exception is
not harmful to the general character, scale of improvements, or privacy of
adjoining properties. (Ord. 6253, 5-14-2018)
   B.   Application: Consideration of a request by a property owner, owners, or
authorized representative for a special exception is initiated by submittal of
the appropriate completed application form and supporting documentation
required for public hearings as listed in subsection 11-17-2B of this chapter,
except that the property ownership list may be limited to only the names and
mailing addresses of owners of property immediately adjacent to the subject
property. The filing fee for a special exception application shall be
established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners, no part of which shall
be refundable.
   C.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, the
requested special exception shall be reviewed by the City staff for compliance
with the conditions listed herein, and shall be forwarded with findings and
recommendations to the Board of Adjustment. Upon required notice being given,
the Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the proposed special exception, receive
comments, testimony, and evidence from interested parties, and receive the
recommendation of City staff. In determining whether or not the special
exception should be granted, the Board of Adjustment shall consider, and record
in the official minutes of the meeting, the extent to which the evidence
demonstrates that:
      1.   The request is eligible according to the relevant requirements
stipulated in subsection A of this section;
      2.   A hardship would result if the special exception is not granted;
      3.   The granting of the special exception will not adversely affect the
rights of adjacent property owners or residents; and
      4.   The granting of the special exception will not cause substantial
detriment to the public health, safety, convenience, or general welfare.
   D.   Approval: The Board of Adjustment shall approve or deny the special
exception. Approval shall be documented by written findings of fact which
support the conclusions listed in subsection C of this section, and the Board
of Adjustment may prescribe additional conditions and safeguards in conformity
with this title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part
of the terms under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title and punishable as provided in subsection 11-17-1E of
this chapter.
   E.   Appeal: The decision of the Board of Adjustment may be appealed by any
person or persons to the District Court of Kay County as provided in this Code.
(Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
11-17-8: VARIANCES; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Authority: There is hereby created in and for the City a Board of
Adjustment.
   B.   Composition: The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5)
members.
   C.   Appointment Of Initial Members: The initial members appointed to the
board of adjustment shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the board
of commissioners.
   D.   Appointment Of New Members; Terms: Members to be appointed to replace
members of the board of adjustment whose terms have expired shall be appointed
in the manner provided for appointments in section 62 of the city charter and
each individual so appointed shall commence his/her term immediately upon his
appointment and the term of office of the member whose position he/she takes
shall terminate upon the appointment of his/her replacement.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring in the membership of the board of
adjustment shall be filled for the unexpired term.
   F.   Rules, Regulations: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for the
conduct of its meetings and business.
   G.   Meetings: The board of adjustment shall meet at the call of the chair
and at such times as the board may determine. All meetings of the board shall
be open to the public.
   H.   Oaths, Witnesses: The chair of the board of adjustment, or in his/her
absence the acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
   I.   Minutes, Records: The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, show the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicate such fact, and shall keep a record of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the board and shall become a public record.
   J.   Application: Consideration of a request by a property owner, owners, or
authorized representative for a variance is initiated by submittal of the
appropriate completed application form and supporting documentation required
for public hearings as listed in subsection 11-17-2B of this chapter, along
with any other items of evidence which the applicant wishes to submit. The
filing fee for a variance application shall be established by the board of
commissioners, no part of which shall be refundable.
   K.   Review: Upon compliance with all application requirements, the
requested variance shall be reviewed by the city staff for compliance with the
conditions listed herein, and shall be forwarded with findings and
recommendations to the board of adjustment. Upon required notice being given,
the board of adjustment shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of section
11-17-2 of this chapter to review the proposed variance, receive comments,
testimony, and evidence from interested parties, and receive the recommendation
of city staff.
   L.   Powers Generally: The board of adjustment shall have the following
powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the code official, or
administrative official, in the enforcement of the provisions of this title.
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the zoning
ordinance upon which such board is required to pass.
      3.   To authorize upon appeal in specified cases such variance from the
terms of the zoning ordinance, as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
such ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of
such ordinances shall be observed and substantial justice done.
      4.   To hear and decide oil and/or gas applications or appeals unless
prohibited throughout a municipality by municipal ordinance. The board of
adjustment shall be required to make the findings prescribed by this code in
order to grant a variance as to use with respect to any such application or
appeal.
Exceptions and/or variances may be allowed by the board of adjustment only
after notice and hearing as provided in this title. The record of the meeting
at which the variance or special exception was granted shall show that each
element of a variance or special exception was established at the public
hearing on the question, otherwise said variance or special exception shall be
voidable on appeal to the district court. In exercising the above mentioned
powers, the board of adjustment may, in conformity with this chapter, reverse
or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination from which appealed and may make such other order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the code official
or administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant in any matter
upon which it is required to pass or to effect any variation in the regulations
and restrictions provided for in the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 5966, 2-25-2002)
   M.   Variances: A variance from the terms, standards and criteria that
pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district as authorized by
the zoning ordinance may be granted, in whole, in part, or upon reasonable
conditions as provided in this title, only upon a finding by the board of
adjustment that:
      1.   The application of this title to the particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship;
      2.   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
      3.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance or the
comprehensive plan; and
      4.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
   N.   Approval: The board of adjustment shall approve or deny the variance.
Approval shall be documented by written findings of fact which support the
conclusions listed in subsection M of this section, and the board of adjustment
may prescribe additional conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
title and punishable as provided in subsection 11-17-1E of this chapter. (Ord.
5916, 8-9-1999)
11-17-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals Authorized: Appeals from the action of the code official or
administrative official to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department or board of the city affected by any
decision of the official. Such appeal shall be taken within seven (7) days from
the date of the decision of the official by filing with said official and with
the board of adjustment a notice of appeal, specifying the ground thereof. The
code official shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment certified
copies of all the papers constituting the record of such matter, involved in
such appeal, together with a copy of the ruling or order from which said appeal
is taken.
   B.   Reasonable Time For Hearing, Notice: The board of adjustment shall hold
a public hearing and make a decision on said appeal within thirty (30) days
from the filing deadline thereof. Notice of public hearing before the board of
adjustment shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the municipality where the property is located and by mailing written notice
by the clerk of the board of adjustment to all owners of property within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundary to the subject
property. A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of written
notice; however, the notice by publication and written notice shall be
published and mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. The notice,
whether by publication or mail, of a public hearing before the board of
adjustment shall contain:
      1.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the municipality;
      2.   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      3.   Date, time and place of the hearing.
On hearings involving minor variances or exceptions, the clerk of the board of
adjustment shall give notice by mailing written notice to all owners of
property adjacent to the subject property. The notice shall be mailed at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing and shall contain the facts listed in
subsections B1 through B3 of this section. The board of adjustment shall set
forth in a statement of policy what constitutes minor variance or exceptions,
subject to approval or amendment by the municipal governing body.
   C.   Proceedings Stayed: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the code official certifies to the board of
adjustment, after the notice of the appeal shall have been filed, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board
of adjustment or by a court of record on application or notice to the code
official.
   D.   Appeal From Board Of Adjustment To District Court:
      1.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of
the board of adjustment may be taken to the district court by any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the municipality, by filing with the city clerk
within ten (10) days of board of adjustment decision, a notice of such appeal,
which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. No bond or deposit for
costs shall be required for such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal,
as herein provided, the said board shall forthwith transmit to the district
court clerk, the original or a certified copy of all the papers constituting
the record in the case, together with the order, decision or ruling of the
board.
      2.   The appeal shall be heard and tried de novo in the district court.
All issues in any proceedings under this section shall have preference over all
other civil actions and proceedings.
      3.   An appeal to the district court from the board of adjustment stays
all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the chair of
the board of adjustment, from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the court
clerk, after notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his/her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order granted by the district court upon
application or notice to the code official in charge of the enforcement of the
terms and provisions of this title, and upon the cause being shown.
      4.   The district court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
modify the decision brought up for review. Costs shall not be allowed against
the board of adjustment unless it shall appear to the district court that the
board has acted with gross negligence or in bad faith or with malice in making
the decision appealed from. An appeal shall lie from the action of the district
court as in all other civil actions. (Ord. 5916, 8-9-1999)
   E.   Fees: Any appeal from a decision of the planning commission to the
board of adjustment shall be accompanied with a fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the board of commissioners. (2003 Code)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Jurisdiction
12-1-4: Definitions
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential,
commercial, and industrial uses and for streets, alleys, schools, parks and
other public purposes will determine, to a large degree, the conditions of
health, safety, economy, and amenity that prevail in the urban area. The
quality of these conditions is of the public interest. These regulations and
standards for the subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to make
provisions for adequate light, air, open space, drainage, transportation,
public utilities and other needs, to ensure the development and maintenance of
a healthy, attractive and efficient community that provides for the
conservation and protection of its human and natural resources.
   B.   These regulations are designed, intended and should be administered in
a manner to:
      1.   Implement the master plan.
      2.   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight.
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts.
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, as provided in these regulations.
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract.
      6.   Resolve any differences of interest.
      7.   Establish adequate, accurate, and accessible records of land
subdivision.
      8.   Ensure a maximum effort for the protection of the manmade and
natural environment and to encourage, in the development of land, the minimum
adverse effect thereto. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
In order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of present and
future residents, and to bring about the coordinated, efficient, and economic
development of the city, the following regulations for the subdividing and
developing of land are adopted pursuant to all the powers and authority derived
from the charter of the city. The exercise of the powers of subdivision
regulation are intended to be in pursuance of this grant of authority and not
under state statutes, except, with respect to those matters of general state
concern as to which state law controls under the state constitution. The city
also may exercise powers of subdivision regulation granted by the state in
respect to matters of general state concern. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the following forms of subdividing and
developing of land within the corporate limits of the city: (Ord. 5157, 8-10-
1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   The dividing of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites, or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain five (5) acres or
less in area; or
   B.   The redividing of land previously subdivided or platted into tracts,
parcels, sites or lots, any part of which, when redivided, contains five (5)
acres or less in area; or
   C.   The dedicating, vacating or reserving of any public or private easement
through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including those for
use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedicating or reserving of any street or alley or any part thereof
through any tract of land regardless of the area involved; or
   E.   "Planned unit development" as defined in section
11-2-2 and title 11, chapter 10 of this code; or
   F.   The development of any parcel of land classified by zoning districts as
multi-family; or
   G.   Any commercial or industrial development. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ADVERSE IMPACT: As a result of development, any significant increase in peak
flow rate or aerial extent of floodwater coverage, a measurable decrease in
floodplain storage volume, increased velocities and an increase in flood
elevation for any frequency storm up to and including the 100-year (1 percent)
event.
ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use, which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
APPLICANT: A person, partnership, corporation, or public agency requesting
permission to engage in construction.
APPURTENANCES: Structures, devices, and appliances, other than pipe or conduit,
which are an integral part of a stormwater drainage system, such as manholes,
stormwater inlets, drop structures, detention storage facilities, etc.
AS BUILT PLANS: A set of detailed documents to be submitted to the engineering
department upon final completion of public improvements specifying how the
public improvements required on the final plat were actually constructed.
BACKWATER: The water retarded above a dam, bridge, or culvert or backed up into
a tributary by a flood in the main stream. In this title, "backwater" is also
defined as the rise in the floodwater surface due to the restrictions created
by the construction of a bridge, culvert, or other flood control structure.
BENCH MARK: A permanent reference mark or point established for use by
surveyors in measuring differences in elevations.
BERM: A horizontal strip or shelf built into an embankment or cut, to break the
continuity of an otherwise long slope, usually for the purpose of reducing
erosion, improving stability, or to increase the thickness or width of cross
section of an embankment.
BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land or drainage channels or a combination
thereof.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of commissioners of the city of Ponca City,
Oklahoma.
BOND, SURETY PERFORMANCE: Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety
bond, collateral, property, or instrument of credit in the amount and form
satisfactory to the board of commissioners.
BRIDGE: A hydraulic structure that is constructed with abutments and
superstructures which are typically concrete, steel, or other materials.
Bridges are generally constructed with earth or rock inverts. Since the
superstructures are not an integral part of the abutments and could therefore
potentially move, the hydraulic criteria for bridges are different than for
culverts.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating area outside of
which buildings may not be erected.
BYPASS FLOW: The quantity of water which continues past an inlet.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: Official certification that a premises conforms to
provisions of the regulations, ordinances, and codes of the city of Ponca City
and, thus, may be used or occupied.
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY: An instrument, prepared by a registered land surveyor,
licensed to practice in Oklahoma, describing the location and boundaries of a
tract or parcel of land.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two (2) bodies of water. It has a definite bed and banks which
serve to confine the water. Also see "watercourse".
COEFFICIENT OF ROUGHNESS "N": A factor in the Manning formula, for computing
the average velocity of flow of water in a watercourse or conduit, which
represents the effect of roughness of the confining material of the watercourse
or conduit upon the energy losses in the flowing water.
CONSTRUCTION: Any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its
development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for,
building of, or erection of a drainage structure.
CONSTRUCTION PLANS: Drawings depicting the construction details of the city
approved drainage facilities required for development.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: A. Structures or facilities that produce, use, or store
highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water reactive materials;
   B.   Hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain occupants who
may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid death or injury during a flood;
   C.   Police stations, fire stations, vehicle and equipment storage
facilities, and emergency operations centers that are needed for flood response
activities before, during, and after a flood; or
   D.   Public and private utility facilities that are vital to maintaining or
restoring normal services to flooded areas before, during and after a flood.
CROSS FLOW: Flow across the traffic lanes of a street, as distinguished from
sheet flow of water falling on the pavement surface.
DEVELOPER: Any person, persons, corporation, or other entity who in his or her
own behalf, or as an agent of another, engages in development, subdivision,
construction of structures, or alteration of land in preparation therefor.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, berming, diking, excavating, or drilling operations.
DRAINAGE: A general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface water
from a given area. The term is commonly applied herein to surface water.
DRAINAGE AREA: The geographical area drained by a river and its tributaries; an
area characterized by all runoff being conveyed to the same outlet.
DRAINAGE FACILITIES: Any drainage and/or flood control structure including, but
not limited to, storm inlets, storm sewers, manholes, junction boxes, outlet
structures, channels, erosion control structures and devices, culverts,
bridges, dams and retention reservoirs.
DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The surface and subsurface system for the removal of water
from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales,
and ponds whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade
element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention facilities,
detention facilities, gutters, streets, and storm sewer systems.
DRAINAGEWAY: A route or watercourse along which water moves or may move to
drain an area.
DRIPLINE: The periphery of the area underneath a tree which would be
encompassed by perpendicular lines dropped from the farthest edges of the crown
of the tree.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons, of the use of an area of land for specific purposes.
EROSION: Wearing away of the lands by running water and waves, abrasion and
transportation.
ESCROW FUNDS: A deposit of cash with the city or approved bank or other
financial institution in lieu of amount required on a performance or
maintenance bond.
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS: The codes, ordinances, and other regulations relating
to the use of land and construction in the floodplain. The term encompasses
zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building and housing codes,
encroachment line statutes, open area regulations, and other similar methods of
control affecting the use and development of the areas. (See title 10, chapter
10, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this code.)
FREEBOARD: The vertical distance between the normal maximum level of the
surface of the water in a channel, bridge, culvert or dam, etc., and the top of
the channel, bridge, culvert or dam.
FROUDE NUMBER: A flow parameter, which is a measure of the extent to which
gravitational action affects the flow, computed as F = V/(gD)0.5, where V is
the velocity (ft/sec), g is the gravitational constant (32.2 ft/sec2) and D is
the flow depth (feet). A Froude number greater than one indicates supercritical
flow and a value less than one indicates subcritical flow.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percentage terms of vertical to horizontal measurements; or the average
elevation at ground level of the buildable site, i.e., the area conforming to
all zoning setback requirements of a lot, tract or parcel of land.
IMPERVIOUS: A term applied to a material through which water cannot pass, or
through which water passes with great difficulty. Surfaces of concrete, asphalt
and roofing are considered impervious.
IMPROVEMENT PLANS: The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the proposed location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of the regulations, ordinances,
and codes of the city of Ponca City.
INTENSITY DURATION FREQUENCY (IDF) CURVE: A graphed curve that expresses the
intensity of a rainfall event during certain duration and the frequency of
occurrence. The IDF curves are used with the rational method of hydrology.
LANDSCAPE OPEN SPACE: That area within the boundaries of a given lot which is
devoted to and consists of plant material, including, but not limited to,
grass, trees, shrubs, flowers, vines and other ground cover, native plant
materials, planters, brick, stone, natural forms, water forms, aggregate and
other landscape features, but not including the use of smooth concrete or
asphalt; provided, however, that the use of brick, stone, aggregate, or other
inorganic materials shall not predominate over the use of organic plant
material.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: Screening is the use of landscaping (other than grass on
flat terrain), or the use of landscaping along with berms, walls, or decorative
fences, that at least partially and periodically obstruct the view from the
street, in a continuous manner, of vehicular use areas, parking lots and their
parked cars, and detention ponds.
LETTER OF CREDIT: A letter from a bank or other reputable creditor that
guarantees to the board of commissioners that, upon the city's request, funds
will be provided to the city to complete specified improvements within a
required time period.
LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has frontage on two (2) or more streets.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: A relocation of lot lines of two (2) or more lots included
in a plat filed of record, for the purpose of making necessary adjustments to
building sites.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of an approved plat or metes and bounds
subdivision, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the
appropriate county clerk.
LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE: A corner lot of such size and shape that a building
erected on it might logically be designed to face either adjoining street, thus
causing the building to rear on the side line of any abutting lot.
MANHOLE: A structure used in storm sewer line construction or an access hole
usually with a flush cover, through which a person may pass to gain access to
an underground or enclosed structure or storm sewer line.
MASTER PLAN: The official public document adopted by the board of commissioners
as a policy guide for the future physical development of Ponca City.
NATURAL STATE: The cover and topography of land before any development.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission of the city of Ponca City.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of a land subdivision prepared on a form suitable for filing
in the office of the county clerk with necessary affidavits, dedications and
acceptances, and with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining
lots and blocks, streets, alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map or maps of a proposed land subdivision meeting the
requirements herein enumerated and showing the character and proposed layout of
the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the suitability of the proposed
subdivision to be submitted to the planning commission for consideration and
approval.
PLAT, SKETCH: A sketch or informal plan prepared prior to preparation of the
preliminary plat showing in general the proposed design of the subdivision
including the street layout, lots, blocks, and the nature of improvements to be
reviewed during the preapplication review process.
PREAPPLICATION REVIEW: An initial and informal review of a subdivision or
development proposal between the developer and the technical review committee
prior to formal submission of the preliminary plat.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvements, or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The usage
of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every
right of way shall be dedicated to the public, and shown on a final plat to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way, and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
RIPRAP: Broken stones or boulders placed compactly or irregularly on dams,
levees, ditches, dikes, channels, etc., for protection of earth surfaces
against erosion.
RUNOFF COEFFICIENT: A decimal number used in the rational formula which defines
the runoff characteristics of the drainage area under consideration.
SCOUR: The erosive action of running water in streams or channels in excavating
and carrying away material from the bed and banks.
SCREENING: Decorative fencing, walk, evergreen vegetation or landscaped earth
berms not to exceed six feet (6') nor be less than four feet (4') in height;
maintained for the purpose of concealing from view the property or structure
behind such fence, evergreen vegetation, or berm which is sought to be screened
from the abutting property.
SEDIMENT: Material of soil and rock origin transported, carried, or deposited
by water.
SETBACK: The distance required, as set forth in title 11 of this code, between
structures and a lot line measured perpendicularly in a horizontal plane
extending across the complete length of said line or lines.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100'), which shows the topographic characteristics of
the site at a contour interval of not less than two feet (2'); the location and
dimensions of buildings, yards, courts, landscape, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation and parking, fences and screening; service areas and service
courts, and other features; the use of each building and area; the height of
buildings; adjacent streets, alleys, utility, drainage, and other easements;
and the relationship of the development to adjacent areas which it may affect.
SPILLWAY: A passageway in or about a dam or other hydraulic structures, for the
escape of excess water.
STILLING BASIN: A basin or reservoir installed in a storm drainage system to
retard velocity, causing sedimentation and providing storage for deposited
solids.
STORM SEWER: A continuous closed conduit for conducting stormwater that has
been collected by inlets or collected by other means. A storm sewer system is a
system of inlets, pipes, manholes, junctions, outlets, and other appurtenant
structures designed to collect and convey storm runoff to a defined
drainageway.
STORMWATER DETENTION: A temporary storage of a determined quantity of
stormwater runoff for a specified period of time with a release rate that is
either fixed or variable, the purpose being to attenuate the peak of the inflow
hydrograph.
STORMWATER MASTER PLAN: The citywide Ponca City stormwater master plan as
adopted by the city commission.
STORMWATER POLLUTION: The result of rainwater or snowmelt that picks up
pollutants and sediments as it runs off roads, highways, parking lots, lawns,
agricultural lands, septic systems, and other land use activities that can
generate pollutants.
STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means of
access to abutting property.
Collector Street: A street which collects traffic from "local streets" as
herein defined and serves to move traffic on the most direct route from
residential neighborhoods, commercial, and industrial areas to the major street
system or to a community facility such as a neighborhood shopping center, park,
recreation area, or school. A collector street differs from a major street in
that facilities on the collector system may penetrate residential
neighborhoods, distributing traffic from the major streets through the area to
the ultimate destination.
Cul-De-Sac Street: A local street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
having one closed end terminated by a turnaround.
Frontage Or Service Street: A street auxiliary to and located adjacent to a
major street for service to abutting properties and access to adjacent areas
and for allowing control of access to the major street.
Local Street: A major street which collects and distributes traffic between
parcels of land and collector or arterial streets, with the principal purpose
to provide access to abutting property. A local street offers the lowest level
of mobility; and service to through traffic movement is deliberately
discouraged.
Primary Or Principal Arterial Street: A major street and/or highway intended to
move through traffic to and from major centers of activity such as central
business districts, regional shopping centers, and major industrial areas.
These streets should serve as a corridor system for the highest traffic
volumes, the longest trip design and the major portion of all travel. For this
class of facilities, the concept of service to abutting land should be
subordinate to the provision of travel service to major traffic movements and
any such service should be purely incidental to its primary functional
responsibility.
Secondary Arterial Street: A major street which should interconnect with and
augment the primary arterial system and provide service to trips of moderate
length at a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than the higher system.
This class of facilities places more emphasis on land accessibility and
distributes traffic to smaller geographic areas than the major activity centers
identified with the primary arterial streets.
STREET FLOW: The total flow of storm runoff in a street, usually being the sum
of the gutter flows on each side of the street. Also the total flow where there
are not curbs and gutters.
STREET YARD: The area of a lot which lies between the street right of way line
and the actual front wall line of the building, as such building wall line
extends from the outward corners of the building, parallel to the street, until
such imaginary extensions of such front building wall line intersect the side
property lines. In determining the actual building wall of the building for the
purposes of this definition, steps and unenclosed porches shall be excluded,
but such building wall line shall follow and include the irregular indentions
of the building. A front building wall is a building wall fronting on a street.
On corner lots, the street yard shall consist of all the area of such lot
between all abutting street right of way lines and their corresponding actual
front building wall lines, as such lines are imaginarily extended in the manner
provided above.
When there are multiple buildings on a lot, the street yard shall consist of
all the area of the lot between the street right of way line and an imaginary
line beginning at one side of the property line, running parallel to the
street, connecting to the frontmost corner of the building wall fronting the
street and nearest such side property line, then following and connecting the
frontmost walls of all buildings fronting on the street, and then extending to
the other side property line, running parallel to the street. If a building has
a rounded front, the front building wall corners shall be the points closest to
the side boundaries. Isolated buildings (e.g., fast food restaurants in a
shopping center, photo processing dropoffs, bank drive-throughs, gas stations,
etc.) shall not be considered in delineating the street yard.
On land used only for parking purposes or only as a commercial or private
parking lot, the street yard shall consist of the area between the street right
of way line and the back property line.
SUBDIVIDER (DEVELOPER): Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
entity acting as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein
defined.
SUBDIVISION: Any division, redivision, or delineation of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels, tracts, or sites, any one of which when divided has an area
of five (5) acres or less for the purpose of transfer of ownership or urban
development; or any division of land involving the vacation or dedication of
right of way or alignment of an existing or proposed street or highway or any
public utility easement, or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided into
lots, sites, or parcels. The term, when appropriate to the context, also shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision, resubdivision, alteration reorganization
or division of land, which shall contain not more than three (3) lots and
further shall not adversely affect the development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property and shall not be in conflict with any provision or
portion of title 11 of this code.
TECHNICAL REVIEW PROCESS: An administrative procedure which provides technical
review services to the planning commission in the administration of these
regulations.
TECHNICAL REVIEW REPORT: An official document summarizing the findings of the
departments, agencies, and commissions participating in the technical review
process. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Plat Approval
12-2-2: Relation To Zoning
12-2-3: Official Recording
12-2-4: Agenda
12-2-5: Filing Fee
12-2-6: Issuance Of Permits
12-2-7: Exemptions
12-2-1: PLAT APPROVAL:
For all cases of subdividing and development, except minor subdivisions, within
the scope of these regulations, a preliminary and a final plat of the land in
question shall be drawn and submitted to the planning commission and a final
plat of the land in question shall be submitted to the board of commissioners
for their approval or disapproval as provided in these regulations. (Ord. 5157,
8-10-1981)
12-2-2: RELATION TO ZONING:
In order to provide adequate information for evaluation and decision by the
planning commission and board of commissioners, and to provide documentation of
intent for public record, the following requirements are mandatory:
   A.   A rezoning request which includes any amount of unplatted land shall be
accompanied by a preliminary plat of the land in question, and any adjacent
land which is fifty percent (50%) or more owned, or under option to buy, by the
applicant; provided, however, that any land for which a plat is not required as
a prerequisite for a building permit is exempted from this requirement. The
preliminary plat shall be submitted for consideration as an agenda item before
the planning commission and the board of commissioners simultaneously with the
rezoning request.
   B.   In the instance of proposed planned unit developments, as provided in
title 11, chapter 10 of this code, five (5) copies of a site development plan
shall also be included with the submission of the preliminary plat when
application for rezoning or PUD designation is made for planning commission and
board of commissioners approval.
   C.   Provided that no final plat may be considered for acceptance by the
planning commission or the board of commissioners until proper zoning is
approved by the board of commissioners regarding the subject property. (Ord.
5157, 8-10-1981)
12-2-3: OFFICIAL RECORDING:
No plat or other subdivision instrument shall be filed in the office of the Kay
County clerk until it shall have been approved by the board of commissioners as
hereinafter set forth. Upon filing the plat, the applicant shall return one
certified copy of reproducible Mylar, together with book and page number of the
recorded plat to the Ponca City engineering department within thirty (30) days.
No improvements shall take place nor permits issued until said reproducible
Mylar is received by the city engineering department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-2-4: AGENDA:
Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be placed on the
agenda of the planning commission only after fulfilling the appropriate
requirements of these regulations. However, a plat not meeting all of the
requirements may be submitted if the subdivider presents with the plat a
written request for specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the reasons
therefor. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-2-5: FILING FEE:
To defray partially the costs of public notifications, field studies, special
studies, and administration procedures and review, there shall be paid a filing
fee to the city clerk at the time of submission in accord with the following:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: Fees shall be as set by resolution of the board of
commissioners from time to time.
   B.   Final Plat: Fees shall be as set by resolution of the board of
commissioners from time to time. Where only a portion of an approved
preliminary plat is submitted for final platting, a final plat of the remaining
area may be submitted at any time within five (5) years of the preliminary
approval without payment of an additional plat filing fee by the subdivider if,
in the opinion of the technical review committee, the final plat for the
additional area conforms substantially with the approved preliminary plat. In
any instance where a final plat includes a rerouting of a collector street or
an arterial street, a change in relationship between uses of land, or a request
for a change of specific elements of the preliminary plat, then the preliminary
plat reflecting said change shall have to be resubmitted and reviewed, and the
subdivider shall pay a full preliminary plat filing fee on that part of the
preliminary plat not previously filed of record as a final plat. (Ord. 5157, 8-
10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
12-2-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any parcel
or plat of land which is not in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-2-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Generally: Whenever there is a tract or previously subdivided parcel
under single ownership which is to be resubdivided into three (3) or fewer
lots, the proposed subdivision may be exempt from the procedural provisions of
these regulations, and a preliminary and final plat may not be required; but
this shall not constitute an exemption from any of the design requirements
herein contained.
   B.   Minor Subdivisions: Exemptions which shall be designated as "minor
subdivisions" shall be permitted under the following procedures:
      1.   An accurate survey prepared by a land surveyor registered in the
state of Oklahoma shall be submitted of the proposed tract, and the
resubdivision thereof shall be submitted to the city engineer or his designated
representative.
      2.   The technical review committee shall review the proposed minor
subdivision to ensure compliance with all design and improvement requirements
of these regulations and shall prepare a written report thereof, which shall be
forwarded to the planning commission in not more than twenty (20) days after
receipt of the application for a minor subdivision, for consideration at the
next regular meeting of the planning commission. If the application is approved
by the planning commission, it shall be certified by the signature of the
chairman of the planning commission and attested by the secretary and forwarded
to the board of commissioners for approval. If the application is denied, the
reasons for denial shall be stated in writing with reference made to the
express provision of the regulations to which the proposed minor subdivision
does not conform and shall be transmitted to the applicant. Any disapproved
request may be appealed to the board of commissioners. Whenever a deviation is
required from the improvement requirements contained herein, or a street or
other element is to be dedicated, the action of the planning commission shall
be forwarded to the board of commissioners for its approval and acceptance of
dedications.
   C.   Lot Line Adjustments: The purpose of this subsection is to allow
adjustments to be made to lot lines of platted lots for the purpose of
adjusting the size of building sites; however, it is not intended that
extensive replatting be accomplished by use of this subsection. Exceptions to
these regulations designated as lot line adjustments shall not violate any of
the provisions of these regulations as to requirements for design or
improvements and shall constitute only procedural exceptions as herein stated.
Requirements for exceptions shall meet the following stated conditions:
      1.   No additional lot shall be created by any lot line adjustment.
      2.   No lot line adjustments shall be allowed unless all required off
site improvements are either completed and accepted by the city or their
construction is secured under applicable sections of these regulations.
      3.   All proposed residential dwelling sites contained in a proposed lot
line adjustment shall have a width at the front building line which is equal to
or greater than the narrowest width lot, measured at the front building line,
which fronts on the same street as said proposed dwelling site and which is
located within the same block, or is across the street from the same block, in
which said dwelling site is located. However, this subsection shall not be
interpreted to deny eligibility for lot line adjustment exceptions which meet
all other criteria of these regulations or are located on a cul-de-sac.
      4.   All proposed parcels of building sites involved in a lot line
adjustment shall abut on either an existing alley or adequate utility drive
easement and on a public street.
      5.   Unusable parcels shall not be created as a result of any lot line
adjustment.
      6.   The technical review committee may approve or disapprove a lot line
adjustment request. Any disapproved request may be appealed to the planning
commission and subsequently to the board of commissioners. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-
1981)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: General Statement
12-3-2: Streets
12-3-3: Alleys
12-3-4: Access And Availability
12-3-5: Easements
12-3-6: Blocks
12-3-7: Lots
12-3-8: Building Lines
12-3-9: Sidewalks
12-3-10: Public Areas And Open Space
12-3-11: Planned Unit Developments
12-3-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of design
of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design requires
the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of land within
the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the design principles hereinafter established. (For further
detailed design criteria and specifications, consult appendix A attached to
ordinance 5157 on file in the office of the city clerk.) (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981;
amd. 2003 Code)
12-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   Specifications And Requirements: It is the intent of this section that
all lots and blocks provided in a subdivision abut on a street adequate to
accommodate all traffic generated, in a reasonable and safe manner. The
arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets shall
be designed in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Wherever topography permits, the arrangement of streets in a
subdivision shall provide for the alignment and continuation or projection of
existing streets into adjoining areas especially when such continuation is
deemed necessary for convenient movement of traffic, for effective fire
protection, and for efficient provision of utilities. Existing streets shall be
continued at the same or greater width. Each subdivision shall provide for the
continuation of all streets and highways as shown on the Ponca City area
transportation plan.
      2.   Proposed streets shall extend to the boundary lines of the tract to
be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or
unless, in the opinion of the planning commission and the board of
commissioners, such extension is not necessary or desirable for coordination
with existing layouts, or the most advantageous for future development of
adjacent tracts.
      3.   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider at the preapplication stage or the preliminary plat
stage.
      4.   The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no undue
hardship either on a subdivider or in the subdividing of adjacent properties.
The dedication of street rights of way to facilitate the development of
adjoining properties may be required.
      5.   If the adjacent property to a proposed subdivision or part of a
subdivision is undeveloped and under separate ownership, and a street must be a
dead end temporarily, the right of way shall be extended to the boundary of
such subdivision. The developer shall install barricades, as approved by the
traffic engineering department, at such a temporary dead end, and said
barricades shall be maintained by the city.
      6.   In the phasing of a final plat, a temporary turnabout may be
required for such a street, or temporary stub streets may be permitted,
depending on the anticipated traffic to be generated on the street; the sight
distance between the entrance and the temporary termination of the street; the
potential need for an adequate turnaround for service vehicles, fire trucks and
ambulances; and the projected time span before continuing the construction of
the remainder of the street. If a turnaround is not provided, barricades shall
be installed and maintained by the developer as approved by the traffic
engineering department.
      7.   Half streets shall not be dedicated where the other half of the
street abuts unplatted land under separate ownership. Where a half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided and under the ownership of the subdivider,
the remaining half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
      8.   Where a subdivision borders an existing road not constructed to city
standards or when future plans indicate realignment or widening of an existing
road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the
applicant shall dedicate the additional right of way. Land reserved for any
road purposes shall not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of
the zoning ordinance. Said land shall be either dedicated to the municipality
in fee simple or in an easement.
      9.   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal lots or parcels,
such lots or parcels shall be arranged so as to permit the logical location and
opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for
adequate alleys or utility drive easements and connection for such
resubdivision.
      10.   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.
      11.   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the planning commission and the board of commissioners may
require service streets, reverse frontage with limits of access and/or
screening along the rear property line, deep lots in excess of minimum
requirements set forth in title 11 of this code, and may limit the number of
streets that open onto a major street, or such other treatment as may be deemed
necessary for the protection of residential properties and standard separation
of through and local traffic.
      12.   Commercial and industrial subdivisions or developments shall be
designed so as to provide a minimum number of openings or accesses to a major
street by means of an internal vehicular circulation system designed for such
use, but the said developments shall not have access to residential streets in
a manner that encourages or promotes the movement of traffic through a
residential neighborhood which is not generated by the neighborhood.
      13.   In business and industrial developments, streets and other access
ways shall consider the arrangement of building sites, the location of rail
facilities, and the provision of alleys, of truck loading and maneuvering
areas, of walks and of parking areas and shall avoid conflicting movement
between the various types of traffic including pedestrian.
      14.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way
or limited access major street right of way, the planning commission may
require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right of
way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land.
Such distances also shall be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separation structures.
      15.   Local streets shall be laid out and designed to discourage use by
through traffic; to conform to topography as much as possible; to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems; and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary for convenient and safe access to property.
      16.   Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the
original topography. If possible, all streets shall be arranged to provide
building sites above the grade of the street, otherwise, adequate provisions
for drainage must be made. A combination of steep grades and curves shall be
avoided.
      17.   A cul-de-sac shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') in length,
measured from the centerline of the intersecting street at the entrance of the
cul-de-sac to the center of the turnaround, and shall be provided with a
circular turnaround having a radius of not less than fifty feet (50') at the
property line and not less than forty feet (40') at the back of the curb. To
meet the needs of specific situations, this requirement may be changed by the
planning commission, upon recommendation by the technical review committee,
when topography or other limited factors make such changes necessary for
securing the best overall design.
      18.   Streets shall intersect at approximately right angles (75 degree
minimum). No more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point.
      19.   Street jogs and centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall not be permitted. In the case of two (2) collector street
intersections, the centerline offset shall be two hundred feet (200').
      20.   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with that of existing streets unless obviously in alignment with such existing
street. Street names shall be subject to approval at the preliminary plat stage
by the technical review committee.
   B.   Paving And Right Of Way Width: In order to provide for roads of
suitable location and width, and for improvements that accommodate prospective
traffic; and to afford satisfactory access for police, firefighting,
sanitation, and road maintenance equipment; and to coordinate roads that create
a convenient system and that avoid undue hardships upon adjoining properties,
the following design standards for streets as set forth in
table 1 are hereby required:
TABLE 1
 
Type Of Street            Paving Width (Back-Of-Curb To Back-Of-Curb) R/W Width
Local                     27 feet to 33 feet                          60 feet
Collector                 33 feet to 37 feet                          70 feet
Arterial                  49 feet                                     100 feet
Commercial and industrial 33 feet                                     70 feet
 
This table reflects minimum widths and depending on the type of land use
involved, the terrain of the land, and the density of development these widths
may be increased by the planning commission upon recommendation by the
technical review committee. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Commercial And Industrial Districts:
      1.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts and
at the rear of all lots regardless of use frontage on a major street, unless
provision is made for utility easements, emergency access and service access,
such as off street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate
for the uses proposed. Such action of the planning commission may be appealed
to the board of commissioners. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
      2.   Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall not be less
than twenty feet (20') in width and shall be paved the full width.
   B.   Multi-Family Districts: Alleys may be required in multi-family
districts (R-2M and R-3) if such requirement is deemed to be necessary by the
technical review committee and/or the planning commission for efficient solid
waste collection, for more effective police and fire protection and for
efficient provision and maintenance of utilities. Such action of the planning
commission may be appealed to the board of commissioners. Alleys serving multi-
family districts shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in width and shall be
paved the full width. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   One- And Two-Family Districts: Alleys are not required in one- and two-
family residential (R-1, R-2) areas, but when provided in any residential
district shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in width and paved not less
than ten feet (10') of that width.
   D.   Intersections: Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall
be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall have a radius sufficient to
permit safe vehicular movements, as determined by the public works department.
   E.   Deadend Alleys: Deadend alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead
end, as determined by the public works department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-4: ACCESS AND AVAILABILITY:
In the development of land in an urban area, whether according to traditional
patterns or under a variation of planned unit development, adequate
consideration shall be given to fire, sanitation, and police protection.
Pursuant to this, the following guidelines are mandatory:
   A.   Dwelling Location: No dwelling unit shall be located more than four
hundred feet (400'), measured from the extremity of the building, from an
accessible street.
   B.   Entry Location: Each dwelling unit shall have an entry located not more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a parking lot, private drive or public
street, accessible and usable for emergency vehicles.
   C.   Fire Hydrants: All residential and commercial building fronts shall be
serviced by fire hydrants so located such that the average spacing shall be
three hundred fifty feet (350'). Any variance from this requirement shall be
subject to approval by the fire department and the public utilities department.
(Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Access To Utilities: The subdivider shall dedicate to the public
appropriate easements and/or alleys to the end that each and every lot, piece,
or parcel of land within a subdivision shall have access to all available
essential public utilities. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
   B.   Drive Easements: Where alleys are not provided, drive easements not
less than ten feet (10') shall be provided along the rear of each lot for use
by public and private utilities. Aerial easements and easements of greater
width for either the extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other
utilities or the accommodation of utilities in unique situations such as, but
not limited to, lots rearing onto unplatted land may be required where it is
deemed necessary by the engineering department and the public utilities
department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Obstructions: Easements shall be maintained free of buildings, fences,
appurtenances, or other structures which would prevent vehicular access for
maintenance and service of utilities.
   D.   Surface Water Drainage: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage channel or stream, there shall be provided a right of way
or easement for drainage and public utility purposes, adequate to contain all
runoff from a 100-year maximum flood as determined by the subdivider and
approved by the engineering department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
   E.   Width Of Easement: In all subdivisions, no easement shall be less than
twenty feet (20') wide, except where located on side lot lines, in which case a
total width of ten feet (10') may be allowed, subject to approval by the public
works department and the public utilities department. In special cases smaller
easements may be allowed subject to approval by the engineering department and
the public utilities department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
12-3-6: BLOCKS:
   A.   Dimensions; Shape: The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be
determined with due regard to the following:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements applicable to lot sizes and dimensions.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic.
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Residential Use:
      1.   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500'), measured along the centerline of the block. When a
block exceeds seven hundred feet (700') in length, the planning commission may
require a dedicated right of way not less than six feet (6') in width with a
paved crosswalk not less than six feet (6') in width in the right of way to
provide pedestrian access through the block.
      2.   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width
to allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth, except where adjacent
to major streets, limited access highways, railroads, waterways, or prevented
by topographical conditions.
   C.   Business And Industrial Use: Blocks intended for business and
industrial use should be of a width and depth suitable for the intended use,
with due allowance for off street parking and loading facilities. (Ord. 5157,
8-10-1981)
12-3-7: LOTS:
   A.   Dimensions; Setback Lines: Lot dimensions and setback lines shall
conform to the zoning regulations of the city.
   B.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles
or radial to street lines except for minor deviations on cul-de-sac or
curvilinear streets.
   C.   Storm Drainage: Lot layouts shall provide positive drainage away from
all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall reflect the general storm
drainage pattern for the area.
   D.   Frontage: Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided
except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from
major streets or to overcome disadvantages of topography.
   E.   Parking And Loading: Lots are not required for subdivisions for
commercial and industrial use where a block is to be developed and retained
under single ownership. However, when provided, lots should be of appropriate
size and arrangement to provide for adequate off street parking and loading
facilities based on the intended use, and such lots shall abut a public street,
frontage or otherwise, on a minimum of one side. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
   F.   Sight Triangle: On any corner lot on which a front yard and exterior
side yard are required, no wall, fence, sign, other structure, vehicle, or
plant growth having a height in excess of three feet (3') above the elevation
of the lowest point of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in
a triangle formed by measuring a distance of thirty feet (30') along both
property lines from their point of intersection and connecting the points so
established to form a triangle except, however, that a single pole eighteen
inches (18") or less in diameter supporting a permitted sign, or a single tree
trunk may be placed in a sight triangle; provided, that the bottom of the sign
or lowest tree branch when mature is at least twelve feet (12') above the
elevation of the lowest point of the crown of the adjacent roadway. (2003 Code)
12-3-8: BUILDING LINES:
   A.   Zoning Compliance: All building lines shall be established in
accordance with zoning regulations of the city.
   B.   Restrictions Shown On Plat: Restrictions requiring buildings to be
located within the building lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the
plat or on a separate instrument.
   C.   Setbacks: Setbacks on major streets existing or proposed shall be
twenty five feet (25') from right of way line regardless of the proposed land
use. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-9: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Collector Streets: Sidewalks shall be constructed along both sides of
all collector streets and arterial streets. This shall apply to any density or
use within any zoning district of the city, except the agricultural district.
   B.   Local Streets: Sidewalks shall be constructed along both sides of local
streets. The planning commission and the board of commissioners may have the
option of waiving the aforementioned sidewalk requirement only on local
residential streets within subdivisions with average gross densities of one
dwelling unit per acre or less. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-10: PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACE:
Public parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other public areas and open spaces
and public rights of way thereon shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements and standards set forth in the policies and ordinances relating
thereto. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-3-11: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
Whenever a "planned unit development", as defined in title 11, chapter 10 of
this code, is proposed for residential, commercial, or industrial use, the
planning commission may vary the requirements of these subdivision regulations
in accordance with said title 11 of this code in order to allow the subdivider
more freedom in the design of the development, but at the same time protect the
convenience, health, safety, and welfare of future residents of the development
as well as the character of the surrounding property and the general welfare of
the entire community. In no case however, shall the proposed design violate the
requirements of title 11 of this code which regulates planned unit development,
and in no instance shall this be construed in such a manner as to circumvent
the requirement for adequate streets, easements, alleys, and other essential
requirements of urban development. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Purpose; Compatibility
12-4-2: Improvement Plans; Approval Required
12-4-3: Supervision And Inspection
12-4-4: Bonding
12-4-5: Completion And City Acceptance
12-4-6: Maintenance And Supervision
12-4-7: Street And Alley Improvements
12-4-8: Sidewalks
12-4-9: Water Lines
12-4-10: Sanitary Sewers
12-4-11: Storm Sewers And Drainage
12-4-1: PURPOSE; COMPATIBILITY:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to specify the nature of improvements
which shall be required in conjunction with the subdividing and development of
land; to identify the methods which will assure the city and the public that
said required improvements will be accomplished; and further to prohibit the
issuance of a building permit for construction within a recorded platted
subdivision prior to completion and city acceptance of all required off site
improvements within the subdivision. (For specific improvement construction
specifications, refer to appendix A attached to ordinance 5157 on file in the
office of the city clerk.)
   B.   The development plan for required off site improvements shall be
approved by the city only after it is found that a proposed development, when
considered in conjunction with the entire subdivision and the areas surrounding
or adjacent to it, will contain public utilities and improvements which will be
consistent, compatible, and homogeneous with, and will constitute logical and
orderly extensions of, existing public improvements, as well as future
improvements to be installed within and without the boundaries of the
subdivision. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-2: IMPROVEMENT PLANS; APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Preparation Of Plans: Coincident with the submission of the final plat
for consideration by the planning commission and prior to the installation and
construction of the required off site improvements within any subdivision,
plans and specifications therefor shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and submitted to the city through the engineering
department. That department shall, if warranted after the examination and
inspection of said plans and specifications, submit to the planning commission
and thereafter to the board of commissioners a report in writing stating, in
its opinion, the plans and specifications comply with all current ordinances
and standards applicable thereto. No installation or construction of any public
utility or required off site improvement shall be commenced without approved
plans and specifications and permission from the engineering department.
   B.   Submission: Plans for the off site improvements herein required shall
be submitted for approval as follows:
Five (5) sets of plans and specifications for all required off site
improvements shall be filed with the city through the engineering department
for final approval concurrent with the submission of the request for
consideration of the final plat by the planning commission.
   C.   Time Limit For Completion: City approval of off site improvement plans
for any required off site improvement or any part thereof is null and void two
(2) years from the date of approval unless said off site improvements are under
construction and will be completed within ninety (90) days. Plans for which
approval has expired shall be resubmitted to the engineering department for
review and current approval before any work is undertaken on the project and
coincident with any consideration of the renewal of a corporate surety bond or
other acceptable improvement guarantee associated therewith; provided, however,
this shall not preclude the city from instituting a legal action to recover
under said corporate surety bond or other improvement guarantee. (Ord. 5157, 8-
10-1981)
12-4-3: SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Compliance With Plans And Specifications: The subdivider shall be
responsible for the construction of all subdivision improvements in accordance
with the plans and specifications as submitted to, and approved by, the
engineering department.
   B.   Notify City For Inspection: During various phases of construction of
the subdivision improvements, the subdivider shall contact the engineering
department for periodic inspection.
   C.   Noncompliance: Periodic inspections shall be conducted by the city to
determine whether or not the improvements conform to the approved plans and
specifications. In the event that the construction does not so conform thereto,
the engineering department shall immediately notify the subdivider and, if
necessary, the board of commissioners, so that proper and necessary action may
be taken. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-4: BONDING:
   A.   Ensure Completion Of Improvements:
      1.   In lieu of completion of improvements prior to issuance of any
building permit, the board of commissioners shall require the subdivider to
file an improvement guarantee with the board of commissioners, through the city
clerk and approved as to form by the city attorney, to ensure the actual
construction of improvements according to the plans and specifications approved
by the city engineer. All improvements shall be completed within a period of
time not to exceed two (2) years from the date of approval of the final plat by
the board of commissioners.
      2.   The board of commissioners shall have the power to extend that
deadline of one additional year where the subdivider can present valid reason
for doing so. All improvement guarantees shall be one of the alternative forms
listed below and shall be in the amount of one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of quantities necessary to construct the improvements as determined by
the city engineer and with guarantee and conditions satisfactory to the board
of commissioners. No building construction shall be permitted nor municipal
utility service furnished on any lot which does not comply with the provisions
of these regulations.
   B.   Alternative Forms Of Improvement Guarantees:
      1.   Surety Performance Bond: The subdivider shall obtain a security bond
from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the state. The bond
shall be payable to the city and shall be in the amount of one hundred twenty
five percent (125%), as estimated by a registered engineer and approved by the
city engineer, of completing all required improvements.
      2.   Escrow Account:
         a.   The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument readily
convertible into cash at face value, either with the city, or in escrow with a
bank. The use of any instrument other than cash, and, in the case of an escrow
account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited shall be subject to
the approval of the board of commissioners. The amount of the deposit shall be
one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost, as estimated by a
registered engineer and approved by the city engineer, of completing all
required improvements.
         b.   In the case of an escrow account, the subdivider shall file with
the board of commissioners, through the city clerk and approved as to form by
the city attorney, an agreement between the financial bank and said subdivider
guaranteeing the following:
            (1)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust
until released by the board of commissioners and may not be used or pledged by
the subdivider as security in any other matter during that period; and
            (2)   That in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider
to complete said improvements, then the bank shall immediately make the funds
in said account available to the city for use in the completion of those
improvements.
      3.   Letter Of Credit: The subdivider shall provide, from a bank or other
reputable institution or individual, subject to the approval of the board of
commissioners, a letter of credit. This letter of credit shall be deposited
with the board of commissioners, through the city clerk, approved as to form by
the city attorney, and shall certify the following:
         a.   That the creditor does guarantee funds in the amount of one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost, as estimated by a registered
engineer and approved by the city engineer, of completing all required
improvements;
         b.   That, in the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
creditor shall pay to the city, immediately, and without further action, such
funds as are necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to
the limit of credit stated in the letter; and
         c.   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in
amount, until released by the board of commissioners.
   C.   Delinquent Bond: In the event that the subdivider is the principal on
any delinquent corporate surety bond, the obligations of which have not been
fulfilled, said subdivider shall be required to provide as surety, cash or
certificate of deposit for any improvement not installed and/or constructed by
the subdivider prior to the filing of any other final plat.
   D.   Request Release From Guarantee: It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider posting any form of improvement guarantee to inform the city,
through its engineering department, when his obligations under said guarantee
have been fulfilled and to request release from the times and conditions of the
posted improvement guarantee. The subdivider's obligation shall not be
considered fulfilled until the board of commissioners have specifically
released the subdivider from his obligation.
   E.   Certified Engineer's Estimate: Any construction surety, regardless of
form, shall be accompanied by a certified engineer's estimate, prepared by a
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, certifying
that the improvement guarantee amount is sufficient to cover one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the current cost of constructing the guaranteed
improvement.
   F.   Board Of Commissioner's Action: If any portion of the required
improvements shall fail to be accepted for dedication within the allocated time
period, either for reasons of incompletion or for reason of substandard
construction, then the board of commissioners shall take the following action:
      1.   Where improvements have been guaranteed under the provisions of
these regulations, the board of commissioners shall declare whatever security
has been pledged as a guarantee to be forfeit.
      2.   Where the board of commissioners is not already in possession of
said guarantee, it shall immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it.
Upon receipt of these securities, the board of commissioners shall use them, or
receipts from their sale if that be necessary, to finance the completion of
required improvements or the rebuilding of such improvements to the proper
specifications. Unused portions of these securities shall be returned to the
subdivider, bonding company, or crediting institution, as is appropriate. (Ord.
5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-5: COMPLETION AND CITY ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Seek Acceptance: At such time as the subdivider has completed the
installation and construction of all public utilities and improvements herein
required within the subdivision, he may seek acceptance for all such
improvements by the city.
   B.   Procedure: The procedure for consideration of acceptance of public
improvements herein required shall be as follows:
      1.   The individual or legal entity responsible for causing public
improvements to be constructed shall make written request through the
engineering department that such public improvements be accepted by the city.
Upon receipt of such notice, the engineering department and the public
utilities department shall make a final inspection to determine whether or not
the work is completed and does comply with the approved plans and
specifications.
      2.   One set of reproducible as built plans and all required maintenance
bonds shall be submitted in conjunction with said written request.
      3.   The project engineer shall submit a written statement indicating
that the off site improvements have been constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, that the as built plans are a true and accurate representation
of said off site improvements, and that he recommends acceptance by the city.
      4.   The engineering department shall submit a written report to the city
manager indicating the following:
         a.   That said public improvements either have or have not been
constructed in compliance with approved plans and specifications and all
requirements of this code;
         b.   That the as built plans either provide or do not provide a true
and accurate representation of the public improvements; and
         c.   That all required maintenance bonds have been submitted and
examined by the city attorney and either are or are not in order.
      5.   Upon the city manager's receipt of the written report from the
engineering department, such report shall be submitted to the board of
commissioners for their acceptance of the improvements and required maintenance
bonds, and, where applicable, their release of the surety from liability under
the subdivision bond where the provisions of said bond have been fully
performed.
      6.   If the board of commissioners finds said public improvements and all
associated requirements to be in compliance with this code, the improvements
shall be accepted for maintenance as well as the required maintenance bonds
therefor. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-6: MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION:
Where a subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment facilities, water supply
systems, parks and grounds held in common, or other physical facilities
necessary or desirable for the welfare of the area, or that are of common use
or benefit which are not or cannot be satisfactorily maintained by an existing
public agency, provision shall be made which is acceptable to the board of
commissioners for the proper and continuous operation, maintenance, and
supervision of such facilities. A copy of the agreements providing for the
proper and continuous operation, maintenance and supervision of such facilities
shall be presented to the planning department and approved as to form by the
city attorney at the time of final platting and shall be filed of record with
the plat of the land thereof. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-7: STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial, or other uses shall lay out, grade, or otherwise
improve all streets and alleys that are designed on the approved plat or that
directly serve the subdivision in compliance with the standards and
specifications of this code and in compliance with the following provisions:
   A.   Layout: Such street layout and all improvements shall be done under the
supervision of the engineering department and shall be subject to the
inspection and approval in accordance with the standards and specifications of
this code.
   B.   Pavement Width, Design: Street right of way and pavement widths shall
comply with standards established in this code. The paving design of the
intersection of any new street with a state or federal highway shall be
approved by the Oklahoma department of transportation.
   C.   Driveways: All driveways which connect with public streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the standard design of the city engineering
department. Except, however, for one- and two-family residential drives, the
minimum width for a single driveway, measured at the property line, shall be
ten feet (10') and the maximum shall be twelve feet (12') for a one car
driveway; and a minimum of sixteen feet (16') and a maximum width of twenty
four feet (24') at the property line for a two (2) car driveway. Additional
driveway widths shall be approved by the city engineering department.
Commercial and multi-family driveways shall conform to the Oklahoma department
of transportation standards.
   D.   Existing Unpaved Street: Whenever a subdivision is adjacent to an
already existing unpaved street, the subdivider will not be required to pave
the entire width of said street. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-8: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Time Of Completion: All sidewalks required by this title shall be
completed either:
      1.   At the time the streets are installed; or (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
      2.   On each lot or parcel of land subsequent to the improvement of said
lot or parcel of land, but prior to the final inspections of such improvements
by the community development department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Surety Required: In the event that the owner or developer elects to
construct sidewalks subsequent to the improvement of a lot or parcel of land,
but prior to the final inspection of such improvement, he shall submit to the
board of commissioners through the city clerk, a surety in the form of a
corporate surety bond, cash or certificate of deposit as required by section
12-4-4 of this chapter. If at the expiration of said subdivision bond all
sidewalks have not been completed, the developer may present, through the city
clerk for submission to the board of commissioners for acceptance, a renewal
bond, and an engineer's estimate shall accompany said renewal bond, prepared
and sealed by a registered engineer in the state of Oklahoma, setting forth a
current cost of said sidewalks. The form of surety on said renewal bond shall
be cash or certificate of deposit. If at the expiration of said renewal bond,
the required sidewalks have not been completed, said bond will be called and
the city will proceed to have said sidewalks installed.
   C.   Paving Plans: All sidewalks required herein shall be shown on the
paving plans. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-9: WATER LINES:
   A.   Installation: The subdivider/developer shall be responsible for the
installation of the water lines and fire hydrants in accordance with standard
specifications for the improvements.
   B.   Inspection: Inspection of the water line installations shall be
provided by the public utilities department.
   C.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within a recorded, platted subdivision until the
required water lines for the lot have been installed in accordance with
standard specifications for the improvements.
   D.   Sufficient Size: It shall be the policy of the city to require a
subdivider to install water lines of sufficient size to serve his proposed
development. When such water lines are located in areas that will provide
service to other areas, the city shall be responsible for additional line size
and incremental costs of installation.
   E.   Health Department Requirements: Any new and replacement water supply
system shall be designed to meet the requirements of the Oklahoma health
department. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-10: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Installation: The subdivider/developer shall install sanitary sewer
lines in accordance with the standards and specifications governing sewer line
construction.
   B.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for any structure
to be located on any lot within an urban, platted subdivision filed of record
until the required sanitary sewer improvements for that lot have been installed
in accordance with the standards and specifications of the city.
   C.   Design: Standard design as adopted by the city shall be followed for
sewer lines tied to the city collection facilities, or if city facilities are
not available, there shall be installed a treatment system where allowed under
this code and approved by the engineering department and the state health
department and dedicated to the city.
   D.   Sufficient Size: It shall be the policy of the city to require a
subdivider to install sewer lines of sufficient size to serve his proposed
development. When such sewer lines are located in areas that will provide
service to other areas, the city shall be responsible for additional line size
and incremental costs of installation. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-4-11: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Minimize Flood Damage: All subdivision proposals and other proposed new
developments shall be reviewed by the engineering department to ensure that all
such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage; that all
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems are located, elevated and constructed so as to minimize or eliminate
flood damage; and that adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   B.   Standards And Specifications: Storm sewers and drainage facilities
shall be provided and constructed in compliance with the standards and
specifications outlined in appendix A attached to ordinance 5157 on file in the
office of the city clerk. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
CHAPTER 5
PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
12-5-1: Technical Review Committee
12-5-2: Preapplication Plans And Data
12-5-3: Preliminary Plat
12-5-4: Final Plat
12-5-1: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
There is hereby created a technical review committee of which the community
development director, or someone appointed by the city manager, shall serve as
chairman. Membership shall consist of the following:
   Community development director
   Public works director
   City engineer
   Director of traffic engineering
   Environmental services director
   General manager of Ponca City energy
   Fire marshall or fire chief
   Director of parks and recreation
(Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
12-5-2: PREAPPLICATION PLANS AND DATA:
Not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the filing of an application for
approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall present to the technical
review committee the following information:
   A.   Description And Condition Of Site: A general description of the
existing conditions of the site and the suitability of the site for the
proposed development. This information shall include data on existing covenants
and agreements, the availability of utilities and community facilities, the
proposed use of each portion of the subdivision, proposed lot sizes and
building sizes, proposed business areas, playground, park and school sites and
other pertinent data as may be needed to supplement the sketches required in
subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   General Location Map: A general location map shall be submitted and
shall show the proposed subdivision and its relationship to existing utilities,
schools, parks, traffic arteries and other features that will affect and
influence the subdivision such as hospitals, churches, airports, railroads and
shopping and employment centers.
   C.   Sketch Plat: A sketch plat drawn to approximate scale shall be
submitted and shall show topography, using a contour interval of not greater
than two feet (2'), the proposed street layout, lots and other planning
features. The street and lot plan may be in the form of a free hand pencil
sketch. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
12-5-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat: Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat
shall be submitted by the subdivider to the community development department
not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the meeting at which it is to be
considered by the planning commission. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Submission Of Site Development Plan: At the same time, where the
preliminary plat is submitted for a multi-family residential development where
any lot, tract, or parcel contains in excess of twenty five thousand (25,000)
square feet, or for commercial or industrial development, there shall be
submitted ten (10) copies of a site development plan which shall be drawn to
scale, showing the topographic characteristics of the site at a contour
interval of not less than two feet (2'); the location and dimensions of
buildings, yards, courts, landscape, pedestrian and vehicular circulation and
parking, fences and screening; service areas and service courts, and other
features, the use of each building and the area; the height of buildings;
adjacent streets, alleys, utility, drainage, and other easements; and the
relationship of the development to adjacent areas which it may affect.
   C.   Engineer Statement: The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a
statement signed by the registered engineer preparing the plat that he has, to
the best of his ability, designed the subdivision in accordance with the
ordinance and regulations governing the subdivision of land except when an
exception is requested as provided for in this title in writing and the reasons
for which are clearly stated.
   D.   Scale And Information: The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale
of not more than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), except where
impractical, and shall show:
      1.   The scale, north arrow, and date.
      2.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      3.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider, and the
registered land surveyor preparing the plat.
      4.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines, and including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part.
      5.   The names, with locations of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of the Ponca City limits if falling
within or immediately adjoining the tract.
      6.   The land contours with vertical intervals of two feet (2')
referenced to a United States geological survey, or coast and geodetic survey,
benchmark or monument.
      7.   The location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and
are immediately adjacent; but actual measured distances shall not be required.
      8.   The location of all existing easements of record, sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, and other surface or subsurface structures
within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto, and the location, layout,
type, and approximate size of the following structures and utilities:
         a.   Water mains;
         b.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains, and laterals;
         c.   Storm sewers; and
         d.   Street improvements.
      9.   The locations of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the
proposed subdivision, the calculations used to compute the runoff, and the
location and size of all drainage easements relating thereto, whether they be
located within or outside of the proposed plat.
      10.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements, and
setback lines, and the approximate lot dimensions.
      11.   The existing zoning and proposed changes of zoning in the tract and
of the property immediately adjacent thereto.
      12.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term: "primary
arterial", "secondary arterial", "collector", or "local" in parentheses,
directly on each street.
   E.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall approve or
disapprove the preliminary plat.
      1.   If the preliminary plat be disapproved, the reasons for such action
shall be specifically stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the
planning commission chairman, shall be attached to one copy of the plat and
transmitted to the applicant.
      2.   The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically to those parts
of this city code, and policies of the city with which the plat does not
conform.
      3.   If the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the applicant
and planning commission agree upon any revisions which may be filed with the
planning commission on a revised copy, the applicant may proceed with the
preparation of a final plat and improvement plans.
      4.   Approval of a preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be
valid for a period of five (5) years from the date of approval, provided that
the final plat is substantially in compliance with the approved preliminary
plat, and provided that no change in land use relationships is proposed and
that no change in street configuration is proposed.
      5.   After a period of five (5) years from the date of approval of the
preliminary plat, the planning commission may review the approved preliminary
plat to consider changed circumstances and conditions.
      6.   In any instance where a final plat includes a rerouting of a
collector street, a change in relationship between uses of land or a request
for a change of specific elements of the preliminary plat, then the preliminary
plat shall be reviewed, and if the five (5) year period has expired, the
subdivider shall pay a full preliminary plat filing fee on that part of the
preliminary plat not previously filed of record as a final plat. (Ord. 5157, 8-
10-1981)
12-5-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on Mylar and ten (10)
dark line prints thereof and one copy of any restrictive covenants that will be
filed in the office of the county clerk and directly affect the land being
subdivided shall be submitted to the community development department not less
than fourteen (14) days before the planning commission meeting at which it is
to be considered for final approval. At the same time, there shall be submitted
to the engineering department five (5) sets of the proposed plans and
specifications for all improvements in final form.
   B.   Septic Tank And Filter Field:
      1.   Submit Form To County: In the instance where the means of sewage
disposal is proposed by individual septic tank and filter fields, the applicant
shall first submit to the applicable county health department a copy of the
Oklahoma state health department form entitled "Oklahoma State Department of
Health Soil Report for Subdivisions or Individual Sites", or any applicable
form which supersedes said form for each lot contained within the final plat.
Said form shall be executed by a registered professional engineer or by
registered professional sanitarian. Upon receipt of this form, the county
health department shall approve or disapprove the soil reports and send a copy
of the Oklahoma state health department form. Application for plat approval, or
any applicable form which supersedes said form to the community development
department. This form shall be received by the community development department
prior to the applicant submitting the final plat for approval. (Ord. 5157, 8-
10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Percolation Tests: In the instance of where the means of sewage
disposal is proposed to be by individual septic tank and filter fields, one
dark line print of the final plat denoting the location on each lot where
percolation tests have been performed shall be filed with application for
approval of the final plat.
   C.   Common Property: In the case of a plat proposing the reserving or
dedicating of land to be used in common by owners of lots in the subdivision,
there shall be submitted by the subdivider evidence acceptable to the board of
commissioners and the city attorney that all necessary steps have been taken
for:
      1.   The establishment of a property owner's association for adequately
maintaining the common property; and
      2.   Disposition of the common property in the event of dissolution of
the association.
   D.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: The final plat shall conform with
the preliminary plat as approved by the Ponca City planning commission, and
shall not include the rerouting of a collector street, a change in the
relationship between uses of land, or a change of specific elements of the
preliminary plat. Plats and/or improvement plans failing to meet these
requirements or other requirements of this title shall not be placed on the
planning commission agenda.
   E.   Scale; Information: The final plat shall be drawn on a scale of one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets
whose dimensions do not exceed twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36")
sheets. However, in the instance of the platting of a small area, the scale of
the drawing may be changed such that one inch (1") will equal less than one
hundred feet (100') in order to allow a larger representation of the tract. On
the first sheet of every plat there shall be a key map showing the location of
the subdivision referenced to government survey section lines and major
streets. If more than two (2) sheets are required for the plat, the key map
shall show the number of the sheet for each area. The final plat shall show:
      1.   The location and description of all permanent survey monuments in or
near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision shall be referenced.
      2.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified.
      3.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names and a legal description
of the land being platted on all pages.
      4.   A boundary closure sheet.
      5.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
      6.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction
of an alley are not readily discernible from data given for lot and block
lines, the length and/or bearing shall be given.
      7.   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets and
alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys, and all proposed easements and all
easements of record, which shall be properly located and identified.
      8.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted.
      9.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public or private use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area
marked "public" or "private", as the case may be. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
      10.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision, and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block. If only
a portion of a block shown on an approved preliminary plat is included in a
final plat, the block and consecutive lot numbers assigned thereto shall not be
continued for the remaining lots of such a block at such time as said remaining
lots are finally platted. The remainder of such a block shall bear a different
block number and the lot numbers shall be consecutively numbered beginning with
the number one. Street addresses shall be assigned by the city and shall be
designated and printed on each proposed lot. Each plat shall then include a
caveat and a disclaimer to read as follows: "Addresses shown on this plat are
accurate as of the time the plat was filed of record". Addresses are subject to
change and should never be relied upon in place of the legal description. (Ord.
5941, 1-22-2001)
      11.   The location of all building lines, setback lines, easements of
record, and easements being dedicated for public services or utilities with
dimensions showing their location.
      12.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for all curvilinear streets and radii or cutbacks for all
property returns.
      13.   The proper acknowledgements of owners and the consent by the
mortgagee to plat restrictions.
      14.   Owner's certificate and dedication, executed and acknowledged.
      15.   Certificate of survey, executed and with land surveyor's seal.
      16.   Certificate of bonded abstractor, executed.
      17.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, executed and acknowledged.
      18.   County treasurer's certificate, executed.
      19.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county clerk, which directly affect the
land being subdivided.
      20.   Certificate of planning commission approval.
      21.   Certificate of board of commissioners acceptance of ways,
easements, and public land dedications.
      22.   All signatures affixed in black ink.
      23.   Name of the subdivision.
      24.   Name of city, county, and state.
      25.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to section,
township, and range.
   F.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall approve or
disapprove the final plat. Approval shall be shown on the plat with the date of
such approval and over the signature of the commission chairman.
      1.   If the final plat be disapproved, the reasons for such action shall
be specifically stated in writing, a copy of which, signed by the planning
commission chairman, shall be transmitted with the tracing and prints to the
applicant.
      2.   If the final plat be disapproved by the planning commission, the
applicant may take the plat to the board of commissioners for consideration,
where by a majority vote it may be approved for filing. However, no plat shall
be approved which does not comply with this title.
   G.   Board Of Commissioners Action: Before recording the final plat, it
shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval or disapproval.
      1.   Approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of and
attested by the city clerk or his deputy.
      2.   The disapproval of any such plat shall be deemed a refusal of the
proposed dedications shown thereon. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981)
   H.   Filing With County: After final approval of the plat and the affixing
of all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall
provide the community development department with four (4) reproducible Mylars,
one of which shall be retained in the permanent file of the community
development department. The applicant shall file three (3) Mylars in the office
of the Kay County clerk. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-6-1: Variations And Exceptions
12-6-2: Administration And Amendments
12-6-3: Violation And Penalty
12-6-1: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in this title would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission, with the approval of
the board of commissioners may vary or modify, except as otherwise indicated,
such requirements of design, but not of procedure or off site improvements, so
that the subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at
the same time, the public welfare and interests of the city are protected and
the general intent and spirit of this title preserved. Such modification may be
granted upon written request of the subdivider or his engineer, stating the
reason for each modification, and may be approved by two-thirds (2/3) vote of
the regular membership of the planning commission, subject to the acceptance of
the plat and the dedications thereon by the board of commissioners; provided,
however, that a variation based on unique conditions shall not be granted when
the unique condition was created or contributed to by the subdivider. (Ord.
5157, 8-10-1981)
12-6-2: ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENTS:
The board of commissioners may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public
rules and regulations for the administration of these regulations to the end
that the public be informed that approval of plats be expedited. These
regulations may be enlarged or amended by the board of commissioners after
public hearing, due notice of which shall be given as required by law. (Ord.
5157, 8-10-1981)
12-6-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued
for any new structure or change, improvement or alteration of any existing
structure on any tract of land which does not comply with all the provisions of
this title.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of any provision of this title shall be
deemed as a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine. Any person, firm, or
corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this title shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 5157, 8-10-1981; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 7
RURAL ACREAGE SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-7-1: General Requirements
12-7-2: Streets And Roads
12-7-3: Drainage And Storm Sewers
12-7-4: Water Supply
12-7-5: Sewage Disposal
12-7-6: Private Roads
12-7-7: Figures
12-7-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Rural acreage (RA) subdivisions located inside the city limits or
within areas designated as an environmentally sensitive area within the Ponca
City master plan shall meet the standards prescribed in this chapter; shall be
subject to all other requirements of these regulations; and shall conform to
all regulations set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Rural subdivision shall include any subdivision of land:
      1.   Within an A agriculture district; or
      2.   Under the RA rural acreage residential provisions set forth in the
zoning ordinance.
   C.   Lot splits from the original rural acreage plat shall not be allowed
until streets are upgraded to meet the standard specifications listed in the
subdivision regulations of the city. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
12-7-2: STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   Access; Security Bond: No rural subdivision shall be approved unless
the area to be subdivided has access from an existing public street or highway
or a public street shown upon an approved plat and secured by a surety
(performance) bond or other instrument acceptable under the provisions of
section
12-4-4 of this title. Said road or street shall meet the width and rights of
way requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Improvements: Roads and streets shall be improved according to city
construction standards and specifications for RA subdivisions (or R-1 single-
family residential, whichever is applicable), and shall be approved by the
planning commission and the board of commissioners.
   C.   Points Of Access: Two (2) separate points of access shall be provided
to each subdivision, except where the site configuration justifies a single
entry.
   D.   Length, Width And Shape Of Blocks: The lengths, widths and shapes of
blocks shall be appropriate for the locality and type of development
contemplated, but block lengths in RA subdivisions shall not exceed two
thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640') nor be less than four hundred feet
(400') in length. Wherever practicable, blocks along section line roads or
other streets designated as arterials or collectors shall not be less than one
thousand seven hundred sixty feet (1,760'), except where shorter blocks are
required to meet access requirements.
   E.   Design Standards For Roads: Design standards for RA rural acreage
roads.
 Subdivisions With Lots 2 Acres Or Subdivisions With Lots Less Than 2 Acres
  Larger
                          Subdivisions With Lots 2 Subdivisions With Lots Less
                           Acres Or Larger          Than 2 Acres
Minimum right of way width 60                       60
(feet)
Minimum pavement width     22 without curb          25 without curb
(feet)
Design speed               25 mph                   25 mph
Minimum turnaround (feet):
Right of way               100                      100
Pavement                   65                       70
Minimum curve radius       100                      100
(feet)
Minimum curb radius at     30                       30
pavement (feet)
Maximum length of cul-de-  12 times the minimum lot width serving no more than
sac (feet)                 34 dwellings and not exceeding 2,600 feet in length
 
   F.   Road Surfacing And Improvements: Once required utilities are installed,
the roadways shall be surfaced to the standards prescribed in these subdivision
regulations. See figures C-1 and C-2 in section
12-7-7 of this chapter. Adequate provisions shall be made for culverts, drains
and bridges serving RA subdivisions, and such roads shall be designed to safely
accommodate projected traffic, to facilitate drainage, and to permit ease of
maintenance. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
12-7-3: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
For RA subdivisions, current storm sewer, drainage, water retention, and flood
zone regulations adopted by the city shall be satisfied. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
12-7-4: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Required: The developer shall provide an approved, adequate potable
water supply to every lot in the subdivision, or demonstrate that an adequate
water supply is available. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
   B.   Connection To City Or Public Supply: If the subdivision is within one-
fourth (1/4) mile of an existing or funded city or other public water system,
the developer shall connect to said public water supply so it is available to
every lot within the subdivided area. (Ord. 6038, 4-10-2006)
   C.   Supply Operated By Another Governmental Entity: Where an approved
public water supply operated by another government entity is accessible or
procurable, the developer may connect with said water supply and make it
available to each lot within the subdivided area. All such construction must
conform to city standards and specifications. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000; amd. 2003
Code)
   D.   Private Systems: Where an approved water supply is not available, the
rural subdivision may be served by a private water system or individual water
wells, both of which must meet federal and state drinking water standards.
      1.   Private water systems shall meet city design standards and
construction specifications and shall provide adequate capacity to meet
domestic and fire flow demands. Private water systems shall consist of a fully
looped system of pipelines, tanks, pumps, and other equipment as appropriate.
      2.   Individual water wells shall have a minimum capacity of five (5)
gallons per minute (gpm). If soils and geological data indicate a possible
ground water deficiency, developer must demonstrate, at his/her expense, that
water is available in adequate quantity and quality.
      3.   Regardless of the method of private water supply, a minimum distance
of forty feet (40') separation between residential structures shall be
maintained in any RA residential district as a fire protection measure. (Ord.
5930, 5-8-2000)
12-7-5: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Required Compliance With City Standards: Developer shall provide
adequate sewage collection and disposal facilities to each lot in the
subdivided area, or demonstrate adequate disposal can be provided. Sewer system
construction must conform to city standards and specifications. (Ord. 5930, 5-
8-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Connection To City Or Public System: If the subdivision is within one-
fourth (1/4) mile of an existing or funded city or other public sewer system,
or an extension of the city or public sewer system and within the natural
drainage basin of said system, the developer shall connect with said public
sewer system so it is available to every lot within the subdivided area. (Ord.
6038, 4-10-2006)
   C.   Proof Of Unfeasibility Of Connecting To City Sewer:
      1.   If the developer finds connecting to the city sewer is not feasible,
the developer shall submit to the environmental services director a written
statement providing substantial evidence for reasons of unfeasibility. The city
may retain a technical expert to determine whether connection to city sewer is
feasible. The cost for such a technical expert will be at the expense of the
developer. If connection to city sewer is determined unfeasible, individual
sewage disposal systems may be used provided they satisfy all city, county,
state, and Oklahoma department of environmental quality (DEQ) health standards.
      2.   Before final plat approval, the developer must demonstrate that
percolation rates are adequate for each lot and that the subdivision site is
suitable for development at rural densities. The appropriate health department
shall review said final plat and if all health regulations are met, said final
plat shall be affixed with the seal and/or signature of a duly authorized agent
of said health department and the date of approval. In addition, any special
requirements and/or conditions placed on such approval shall be itemized on the
face of the plat.
   D.   Sewage Lagoons Prohibited: Sewage lagoons and other open sewage
disposal facilities are not permitted. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
12-7-6: PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.   Conditions For Using Private Roads: Pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes, the
city will permit the use of private roadways in RA subdivisions that meet the
conditions described below:
      1.   All private roads shall comply with the RA rural acreage
requirements for roadway construction, with no reduction in city standards
permitted. See figures C-1 and C-2 in section
12-7-7 of this chapter.
      2.   All private roads shall be self-contained in the subdivision it
serves. No private road shall serve as a through street.
      3.   Private roads shall not be a continuation of dedicated public
streets.
      4.   There shall be placed on the final plat, clearly conspicuous, the
following notice: "The streets and drives have not been dedicated to the
public, and said streets shall be maintained by private property owners within
the subdivision, but said streets shall always be open to police, fire, and
other official vehicles of all federal, state, county, and city agencies".
      5.   Every deed shall clearly acknowledge: "Said roadway is private and
is not maintained by the City of Ponca City". (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
      6.   Developers shall post and maintain a conspicuous sign at all
entrances to said subdivision stating: "Private Roadway Not Maintained by the
City of Ponca City". (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   Size Of Property Abutting Roadway: Property abutting said private
roadway shall contain not less than ten (10) acres for A agriculture and not
less than one acre for RA rural acreage subdivisions and must comply with all
applicable zoning and other municipal ordinances and regulations.
      2.   Easement Width: Said private roadway easement shall be at least
sixty feet (60') in width.
      3.   Building Setback Lines: All applicable building setback lines shall
be calculated from said private roadway easements.
      4.   Private Roadway: Said private roadway shall not be dedicated to the
public but reserved for future dedications, and, until such future dedication,
shall be the private property of the abutting property owners.
      5.   Petition For Improvements: A petition of at least sixty percent
(60%) of the owners in the RA subdivision, to improve and dedicate the street,
shall bind all said owners in the subdivision, to permanently improve said
street or roadway in compliance with the requirements for public streets of the
city. Such costs shall be assessed to property owners. Subdivisions with one or
more lots less than one acre in size shall not qualify for RA rural acreage
subdivision regulations or zoning.
      6.   Construction Plans; Surety Bond:
         a.   Preparation By Engineer; Bond:
            (1)   Plans for the above stated improvements shall be prepared by
a professional engineer and in accordance with the laws of the state of
Oklahoma and the ordinances of the city. The subdivider shall file with the
city a surety bond in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
estimated construction costs; conditioned that the subdivider, as principal,
will faithfully install and complete improvements and utilities in the
subdivision within a period not to exceed two (2) years, according to
requirements of city ordinances, approved plans, specifications, and
subdivision rules and regulations of the city, and will pay all bills for
contractors, improvements, and utilities. An extension of this period may be
granted by the board of commissioners.
            (2)   The professional engineer shall furnish the cost of said
pavement and utilities to the city engineer who shall approve the estimated
costs of paving, storm sewers and other drainage facilities, if required, in
order that the planning commission may determine whether or not the amount of
the bond submitted is adequate to ensure the construction of these facilities
and in order to protect the interests of the city and public welfare. All
current policies, inspection fees, or other normal requirements of the city
engineering department shall apply in full force to ensure the proper
construction of said private roadways.
         b.   Certification: In lieu of the provision contained in subsection
B6a of this section, the developer may submit a document prepared by a
professional engineer which certifies that all private roads for said
development are constructed to the required city standards for R-1 single-
family residential or RA rural acreage, whichever is applicable.
      7.   Agreement Of Abutting Property Owners: Prior to the approval of such
private roadways, all abutting property owners shall enter into such a legal
agreement to assure maintenance and apportion maintenance costs. Such agreement
shall clearly state that the city is not responsible for maintenance.
      8.   Street Stub Easements: Street stub easements to serve potential
future subdivision and to improve the overall circulation pattern of the area
shall be provided in any location deemed appropriate by the planning
commission. (Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
12-7-7: FIGURES:
See following pages for
figures C-1 and
C-2.
Figure C-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2083.png]
 
Figure C-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b6e1251fd3a1ee3e4f764d02bb72898bf9f72240/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2085.png]
 
(Ord. 5930, 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 8
DRAINAGE DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-8-1: Glossary
12-8-2: Plans And Approval Required
12-8-3: Drafting
12-8-4: Survey And Bench Marks
12-8-5: Typical Sections
12-8-6: Cross Sections
12-8-7: Plan Sheets And Profiles
12-8-8: Streets
12-8-9: Structures And Specific Details
12-8-10: Stormwater Management Provisions
12-8-11: Technical Standards And Criteria
12-8-12: Drainage Improvement Responsibility
12-8-13: Submittal Requirements
12-8-14: Design Rainfall
12-8-15: Runoff Computations
12-8-16: Street Drainage And Storm Sewer Systems
12-8-17: Storm Sewer Pipe System
12-8-18: Open Channels
12-8-19: Hydraulic Structures
12-8-20: Stormwater Detention
12-8-1: GLOSSARY:
Reference title 12, chapter 1 of this title and title 10, chapter 10 of this
code for all definitions. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-2: PLANS AND APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Responsibility Of Consulting Engineer: Approval of the plans by the
city engineer does not release the consulting engineer from his responsibility
to meet the planning and design of the project as required by the city engineer
and/or other departments of the city.
   B.   Plan Sheets Signed And Sealed: All of the plan sheets and the cover
sheet of all calculation reports shall be signed, sealed and dated by a
professional engineer, licensed in the state of Oklahoma, prior to submitting
the plans to the city engineer for review.
   C.   Statement Required: Directly above the title block and signature of the
professional engineer, licensed in the state of Oklahoma, the first sheet of
the plans shall contain the following statement:
I hereby certify that I am familiar with the adopted ordinances and regulations
of the City of Ponca City, that these plans have been prepared under my direct
supervision; the above and foregoing plans comply with all governing ordinances
and the adopted standards of the City of Ponca City to the best of my
knowledge, information and belief.
   D.   Cost Estimate: Construction pay items and engineer's cost estimate for
each item of work covered by the standard specifications and/or special
provisions shall be rounded off to the nearest unit and listed in the proposal
clearly indicating the basis for payment. This applies only to those
improvements that will be accepted by the city of Ponca City as public
improvements. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-3: DRAFTING:
   A.   Construction Plans:
      1.   Plans shall be provided on a reproducible medium (paper or mylar).
Construction plans shall also be provided in digital CAD vector file format
currently used by the city engineering department on current commonly used
media.
      2.   Standard sheets shall be thirty four inches (34") wide by twenty two
inches (22") high having a margin of one and one-half inches (11/2") along the
left border and one inch (1") along the top, bottom and right border.
      3.   North shall be oriented to the top or right hand side of all sheets.
      4.   All line work shall be of sufficient density to be reproducible by
current reproduction processes. Any line work which does not reproduce
satisfactorily may be cause for rejection of the plans by the city.
      5.   Plotted text height shall be no smaller than 0.08 inch minimum
height. Sizes greater than this are desirable and suggested.
      6.   "Record" drawings shall be provided on a reproducible medium (paper
or mylar). Construction plans shall also be provided in digital CAD vector file
format currently used by the city engineering department on current commonly
used media.
   B.   Plan Set Sheet Order:
      1.   The front sheet shall contain existing topography (2 foot contour
intervals), north arrow, index to sheets, street layout, lot layout, off site
adjacent structures, location map, description, symbol legend, owner's and
engineer's name, address and telephone number, bench mark, PE seal and
signature.
      2.   Drainage areas for inlet design with flow arrows indicating areas
Q1OO, Q10, Q2 and time of concentration. Summation tabular column of drainage
areas and flows to respective inlet.
      3.   Layout of streets with stations, cul-de-sacs and intersections
numbered with cross reference to plan detail.
      4.   Storm sewer layout (also to be included with paving plans).
      5.   Final grading plan showing final grades and minimum pad elevations
for lots close to sump areas, for areas where pad is lower than the curb, and
for lots adjacent to floodplain areas.
      6.   Stormwater pollution prevention plan sheet showing permanent erosion
and sediment control practices.
      7.   Large scale drawing of cul-de-sac and intersections showing drainage
system.
      8.   Detention pond(s) showing existing and proposed topography cross
sections through the pond including 5-, 10-, 25-, 50- and 100-year water
levels, details of inlet and outlet structures, and indicate if privately or
publicly maintained. For critical facilities, the 500-year water level must be
shown as well.
      9.   Details of structures, both standard and special.
      10.   Drawings of all dam structures. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-4: SURVEY AND BENCH MARKS:
   A.   The city of Ponca City geographical information system (GIS) was
designed to be a useful tool for city master planning purposes and conceptual
engineering analyses of large areas. It is not suitable for individual
subdivision or development design and detailed hydrological and hydraulic on
site studies and design.
   B.   Preparation of plans for subdivisions shall require a detailed boundary
survey and property descriptions be performed by an Oklahoma licensed land
surveyor. The land surveyor shall comply with the Oklahoma state board of
licensure for professional engineers and land surveyors 245:15 subchapter 13,
minimum standards for land surveying. In 245:15-13-2(d)(13) the minimum
standard within the city of Ponca City that applies shall be either (A) or (B),
within the city limits standards applicable for suburban or rural surveys are
insufficient for subdivision development.
   C.   The permanent elevation bench mark and at least two (2) horizontal
control points shall be identified in state plane coordinates-Oklahoma North
and shall also identify the Ponca City GPS monument that the survey was based
upon. Ponca City GPS horizontal positions are based upon NAD 83 (horizontal)
and NAVD 88 (vertical).
   D.   All elevation information presented on subdivision plans shall be based
upon NAVD 88 and:
      1.   Field surveyed points shall be accurate to plus or minus 0.1 foot
vertically.
      2.   Contour lines shall be shown with a contour interval of 1.0 foot and
software generated spot elevations (not field surveyed points), elevations at
contour lines, and elevations interpolated between contour lines shall be
accurate to within one-half (1/2) of the contour interval.
      3.   The referenced bench mark for vertical control of sanitary sewers
and stormwater drainage structures shall have an accuracy of plus or minus 0.03
foot vertically to a Ponca City GPS monument.
      4.   Features visible at the surface that are presented as topographic
information (excluding property monuments subject to more accurate minimum
standards for land surveying) shall be located horizontally to an accuracy of
0.5 foot.
      5.   The horizontal position of underground facilities (not visible at
the surface) existing prior to this proposed development shall be accurately
located horizontally within thirty inches (30").
   E.   Points of connection to sanitary sewers or stormwater conveyance
structures shall be field surveyed with a vertical accuracy of plus or minus
0.03 foot. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-5: TYPICAL SECTIONS:
   A.   Typical sections shall show dimensions, type of materials, layer
details, reserve topsoil, temporary and permanent erosion control, compacted
thickness, etc.
   B.   All typical sections or notes that are necessary to clearly reflect the
design shall be included. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-6: CROSS SECTIONS:
   A.   Cross sections may be required by the city engineer as a part of the
construction plans, when necessary to reflect more clearly the intent of the
design.
   B.   All cross sections required for street rights of way shall be drawn to
scale showing existing ground and proposed construction from building line to
building line.
   C.   Each section required shall be stationed clearly.
   D.   Sufficient information shall be furnished to show that water is not
ponded behind curbs or in ditches.
   E.   Scale for cross sections shall not be less than:
      1.   Channels: One inch equals five feet (1" = 5') horizontal one inch
equals two feet (1" = 2') vertical.
      2.   Streets: One inch equals five feet (1" = 5') horizontal one inch
equals two feet (1" = 2') vertical. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-7: PLAN SHEETS AND PROFILES:
   A.   All property lines shall be shown, dimensioned and locations referenced
thereto. This includes rights of way, easements, building lines, etc.
   B.   All intersections, cul-de-sacs, and other critical locations shall be
shown in large plan detail, including direction of drainage, top of curb
elevation at PCs, PTs and high or low points. All curve information shall be
shown in detail.
   C.   All drainage areas shall be clearly marked on the drainage area plan
sheet; showing acreage, runoff and off site pick up points.
   D.   A site plan showing proposed locations and elevations of all utilities
shall accompany the street and storm sewer plans.
   E.   All fill areas within the street right of way and beneath storm
drainage structures, shall be cross hatched on the profile and notation shall
be made that the fill area shall be compacted to a minimum of ninety five
percent (95%) standard proctor density.
   F.   A list of construction pay items and estimate of quantities shall be
shown on the plans.
   G.   Curb returns with elevations shall be clearly labeled on profile.
   H.   Vertical curves in profile shall give the top of curb elevation at the
PC, PI, PT, and high or low point, at a minimum of twenty five foot (25')
intervals.
   I.   All structures (manholes, junction boxes, inlets, headwalls, etc.)
shall be numbered and labeled both in plan and in profile and detailed on
plans.
   J.   Scale shall not be less than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50')
horizontal, and one inch equals five feet (1" = 5') vertical on profile sheets.
Minimum scales shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') on plan
sheets.
   K.   Storm sewer lines shall be identified on both plan and profile sheets
by letter or number. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-8: STREETS:
   A.   All paving of streets, alleys, driveway approaches, and sidewalks shall
conform to adopted city standards for the appropriate land use and street
classification.
   B.   Typical sections for each street shall be shown from building line to
building line. Additional cross sections may be required by the city engineer
to reflect more clearly the intent of design.
   C.   Soils tests will be required for all areas to be paved and submitted to
the city engineer. A standard proctor density in accordance with AASHTO T-99
shall be required for each soil type encountered on the paving. It shall be the
responsibility of the developer to supply the test. Individual density tests
shall be supplied by the developer and performed by an approved testing
company.
   D.   A proposed and existing profile shall be shown beyond the end of all
dead end streets for a minimum of two hundred feet (200') to determine a
satisfactory grade for future extension. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-9: STRUCTURES AND SPECIFIC DETAILS:
   A.   All special structures will be detailed.
   B.   When standards are used, standard sheets shall be included as part of
project plans.
   C.   Special structures shall be drawn to scale unless noted otherwise.
   D.   Sufficient details, dimensions and related notes shall be provided for
all structures.
   E.   All structures subject to vehicular traffic shall be designed for H-20
loading.
   F.   All bridge design shall meet the requirements in the latest edition of
"Standard Specifications For Highway Bridges" prepared by ODOT. (Ord. 6123, 6-
28-2010)
12-8-10: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS:
Presented in this chapter are the minimum requirements necessary to promote the
general public health, safety and welfare benefits by providing for, operating,
constructing, equipping, maintaining, acquiring and owning a stormwater
drainage system. All development, redevelopment, grading, regrading,
excavation, landfill, berming or diking of land within the city of Ponca City
submitted for approval shall conform to the provisions set forth in this
chapter.
   A.   Variances:
      1.   Whenever a tract of land is of such unusual size or shape or there
are unusual conditions that exist with regard to the development of said tract
that the strict application of the requirements of this chapter would result in
a substantial hardship upon the applicant, he/she may seek relief from the
requirements in the manner specified in section
12-6-1 of this title.
   B.   Review And Approval:
      1.   The city engineer may submit any documents as required to other city
departments or other jurisdictional agency, for review and comments prior to
his approval.
      2.   Projects and tasks proposed in the plans and documents required by
this chapter shall be implemented as proposed.
      3.   Any changes or amendments to the plans or documentation must be
approved by the city engineer in accordance with the established review
procedures.
   C.   Stormwater Policy And Standards:
      1.   Natural Drainage Channels: Natural drainage channels and techniques
shall be given priority consideration in preparation of drainage system designs
and shall be designed or improved as an integral part of the landscape of the
area;
      2.   Water Quality: Water quality control measures shall be incorporated
into stormwater management designs wherever possible;
      3.   Purpose: These regulations are provided for the purpose of
protecting the general health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city
of Ponca City from the hazards and dangers of stormwater runoff and to minimize
water quality degradation;
      4.   Development In Floodplain: Development in the floodplain is also
regulated by title 10, "Building Regulations", chapters 1 through 4 and chapter
10, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this code;
      5.   No Adverse Impact: The policies and standards contained herein
provide design criteria that shall result in no adverse impact to off site
properties as a result of development;
      6.   Prevention Of Unnecessary Disruption: Prevention and regulation of
unnecessary disruption of commerce, access, and public service during times of
flooding;
      7.   Contribution To Improved Techniques: Contribute to improved
construction techniques in drainage systems and the drainageway.
   D.   Drainage Policies:
      1.   Drainage System Capacity: The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to pass the stormwater runoff received from upstream and from the
subject property in a one percent (1%) (100-year) storm.
      2.   Development Impact On Flooding: Development shall be constructed so
that it will not increase the frequency of flooding or the depth of inundation
of structures for any storm frequency up to and including the one percent (1%)
storm event.
      3.   Development Impact On Flood Peaks: Peak flows shall not be increased
at any location for any storm, up to and including the one percent (1%) storm,
which will result in the inundation of structures or property not previously
subject to inundation as a result of that same frequency storm.
      4.   Detention And Increase In Downstream Conveyance Requirements For
Development:
         a.   Regulation of peak flows to allowable levels shall be achieved by
on site storage or implementation of the recommendations of the stormwater
management master plan.
         b.   Downstream conveyance may be improved to compensate for increased
flows if such improvements comply with the policies of this chapter.
         c.   The city of Ponca City has adopted and periodically updates a
master plan for the drainageways within its jurisdictional boundaries. These
master plans set forth the guidelines for improvement and maintenance of the
existing and future drainage facilities for all future development and any
redevelopment. A project in compliance with the master plan will also be in
general compliance with this chapter.
      5.   Prevention Of Erosion, Sedimentation, And Stormwater Pollution: The
velocities for all frequency storms up to one percent (1%) shall not exceed the
erosion protection features of the development. The design of the development
shall not result in sedimentation of material transported by the drainage
system. During construction of the development all stormwater pollution
prevention measures required by the Oklahoma department of environmental
quality shall be complied with. Furthermore, after acceptance of the
development by the city of Ponca City, measures shall be implemented and
maintained to prevent the discharge of unpermitted stormwater pollutants.
   E.   Operation And Maintenance:
      1.   Continual Maintenance Required: Continual maintenance of storm
drainage facilities is required to ensure they will function as designed.
Maintenance of detention facilities involves removal of debris and sediment and
repair of the embankment and appurtenances. Sediment and debris must also be
periodically removed from channels and storm sewers. Trash racks and street
inlets must be regularly cleared of debris to maintain discharge capacity.
Channel bank erosion, damage to drop structures, crushing of pipe inlets and
outlets, and deterioration to the facilities must be repaired to avoid reduced
conveyance capability, unsightliness, and ultimate failure.
         a.   Maintenance Access: The city of Ponca City requires that a
dedicated drainage easement be provided to all publicly maintained storm
drainage facilities for operational and maintenance purposes. The drainage
easement shall be shown on final plats or final development plans.
         b.   Interim Stormwater Drainage System Maintenance: Drainage
facilities provided by the developer shall be fully and properly maintained
from construction through final acceptance of the development improvements by
the city of Ponca City.
      2.   Private Stormwater Drainage System Maintenance: It shall be the
responsibility of the individual property owners or a homeowners' association
to maintain private drainage facilities within any development as follows:
         a.   Mow drainage channels and their slopes for that portion of the
channel lying within their property limits.
         b.   Keep clear all drainage channels within the boundaries of their
properties in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
         c.   Prevent any and all drainage interferences, obstructions,
blockages, or other adverse effects upon drainage into, through, or out of the
property.
         d.   Control the erosion of the drainage channels and the deposition
of materials into the drainage channels from the property.
   F.   Drainage Easements: Drainage easements (see table below) shall be shown
on the final plats and/or site development plan and shall state that the city
has the right of access on the easements which shall be kept clear of
obstructions to the flow and/or maintenance access.
REQUIRED DRAINAGE EASEMENTS (NOT WITHIN A PUBLIC ROW)
 
Drainage Facility                    Minimum Easement Width
Storm sewer                          20 feet
Storm sewer overflow, where required As required to contain surface overflow in
                                     a surface drainage easement
                                     Top width of channel plus 20 feet
Open channel                         (arranged as appropriate for maintenance
                                     purposes)
                                     As required to contain storage volume and
Detention areas                      associated facilities plus adequate
                                     maintenance access around the perimeter
 
   G.   Development Within The Regulatory Floodplain: The city of Ponca City
has adopted floodplain regulations which set forth the policies, purpose,
restrictions, and requirements for floodplain development. See title 10,
chapter 10, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this code. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-11: TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
   A.   Drainage Design And Technical Criteria: The city of Ponca City requires
that all storm drainage facilities be planned and designed in accordance with
the criteria set forth in this chapter. The criteria may be revised or amended
as new technology is documented.
   B.   Drainage Construction Plans: Approval of plans for construction of any
drainage facility not initiated within a two (2) year period from time of
approval shall expire. Plans must be reviewed again and approved after two (2)
years have elapsed subsequent to their approval, unless construction (other
than grading) has been initiated. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-12: DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Developer Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of any
individual engaged in the improvement of land to:
      1.   Control and manage all drainage within and from the development
including the control and management of any approved increase in runoff volume
or rate.
      2.   Prepare all drawings, plans, specifications, statements, studies,
justifications, impacts and other data required by this chapter to assure that
all assigned responsibilities have been sufficiently and correctly
incorporated.
      3.   Provide detention facilities, storm sewers, improved or natural
channels, or a combination thereof to assure control and management of
increased runoff.
      4.   Prevent soil deposition, sedimentation, and erosion from any surface
of the site into a drainage channel provided or created within the development,
and from the site into downstream drainage channels, and maintain same until
suitable permanent soil cover is established.
      5.   Prevent any and all drainage obstructions from interfering with
drainage through or adjacent to the development from discharge sources
upstream. Temporary or permanent bypass channels or other improvements may be
required.
      6.   Improve or modify any and all drainage systems and channels lying
within the subdivision to a level that meets all requirements of this chapter.
      7.   Improve or modify drainage systems downstream from the subdivision
for problem areas identified in the stormwater master plan (and provide
easements or rows for such) in accordance with the recommendations of the
stormwater master plan.
      8.   Prevent any aggravation of existing flooding, drainage, erosion,
runoff, pollution, or other stormwater management problem within any area
already under development.
      9.   Provide for transferring ownership and maintenance of stormwater
detention facilities to a private entity responsible for maintenance.
      10.   Comply with other applicable provisions of this chapter and title
10, chapter 10, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this code and permit requirements
by state and federal agencies for all subdivision development activities.
   B.   Property Owner Responsibility:
      1.   See subsection 12-8-10E2 of this chapter.
   C.   City Of Ponca City Responsibility: The responsibility of the city of
Ponca City, within the discretion of the city commission, shall be to:
      1.   Repair and maintain channels and their slopes when located within or
upon public rights of way or dedicated drainage easements.
      2.   Make necessary improvements to the drainage systems of the city as
defined by the stormwater master plan that will not be improved by or during
private development.
      3.   Maintain special flood hazard areas that are dedicated public areas,
rights of way, park lands, or publicly owned buildings or development.
      4.   Maintain all publicly owned drainage systems outside the special
flood hazard area.
      5.   Provide final inspection and acceptance of all privately financed
public improvement projects.
   D.   Engineer Responsibility: The responsibility of the engineer in the
planning and design of public drainage facilities is as follows:
      1.   The engineer shall prepare the necessary drainage analysis and
facility designs in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and shall
certify that they are in compliance, subject to approved technical variances.
      2.   The engineer shall use sound professional judgment and standard
engineering practice when recommending technical variances.
      3.   The engineer shall observe the completed construction and upon
completion of construction the engineer shall provide reproducible PE signed,
sealed and dated as built plans of all public drainage facilities as well as
engineer's letter of confirmation that the facilities were constructed in
compliance with the approved construction plans and per this code. As built
plans shall also be provided in digital CAD vector file format currently used
by the city engineering department on current commonly used media. (Ord. 6123,
6-28-2010)
12-8-13: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
The submittal requirements for drainage reports and plans are set forth in this
section.
   A.   Summary Statement: The cover letter for the drainage reports shall
include the following:
      1.   Goals And Policies:
         a.   Discuss how the proposed drainage plan meets the stormwater
management goals and adheres to the floodplain policies of this chapter.
         b.   Discuss any deviation of the proposed drainage plan from the
above goals and policies.
      2.   Drainage System Components:
         a.   Discuss the overall concept of the proposed system.
         b.   Discuss the interaction of the major drainage and the proposed
system.
      3.   Criteria:
         a.   Discuss any proposed deviation from the chapter and methodology,
as set forth in the standards, for consideration by the city for approval, if
appropriate.
         b.   Discuss the design criteria for the storm drainage design of the
proposed system.
   B.   Drainage Report: The drainage and detention report will identify and
define solutions to the problems which may occur on site and off site as a
result of the development. In addition, those problems that exist on site prior
to development must be addressed during design. All reports shall be typed on
eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") paper and bound
together. The drawings, figures, plates, and tables shall be bound with the
report or included in a folder/pocket at the back of the report. The report
shall include a cover letter presenting the preliminary design for review and
the report shall be prepared by or supervised by an engineer licensed in
Oklahoma.
      1.   Certification: The report shall contain a certification sheet as
follows:
I hereby certify that this report (plan) for the preliminary drainage design of
(Name of Development) was prepared by me (or under my direct supervision) in
accordance with the provisions of the City code of Ponca City for the owners
thereof.
   Licensed Professional Engineer
   State of Oklahoma No.   
   (Affix Seal)
      2.   Report Contents: The drainage report shall be formatted in
accordance with the following outline and contain all of the applicable
information listed:
         a.   General Location And Description:
            (1)   Location:
               (A)   Name and address of legal owner.
               (B)   Vicinity sketch.
               (C)   Legal description of property.
               (D)   Boundary line survey.
               (E)   Township, range, section, 1/4 section.
               (F)   Local streets within and adjacent to the subdivision.
               (G)   Major drainageways and facilities.
               (H)   Names of surrounding developments.
            (2)   Description Of Property:
               (A)   Area in acres.
               (B)   Ground cover (type of trees, shrubs, vegetation).
               (C)   Major drainageways and floodplains.
               (D)   Soil types and hydrologic soil groups.
         b.   Drainage Basins And Subbasins:
            (1)   Major Basin Description:
               (A)   Reference to major drainageway planning studies such as
stormwater master plan, flood damage prevention ordinance, and flood insurance
rate maps.
               (B)   Major basin drainage characteristics.
               (C)   Identification of all drainage system components within
fifty feet (50') of the property boundary.
               (D)   Overall drainage area boundary and drainage subarea
boundaries.
            (2)   Subbasin Description:
               (A)   Historic drainage patterns of the property in question.
               (B)   Off site drainage flow patterns and their impact on the
proposed development.
         c.   Drainage Design Criteria:
            (1)   Regulations:
               (A)   Discussion of the optional criteria selected or the
deviation from the chapter, if any.
            (2)   Development Criteria Reference And Constraints:
               (A)   Previous drainage studies (i.e., project master plans) for
the site in question that influence or are influenced by the drainage design
and how the plan will affect drainage design for the site.
               (B)   Discussion of the drainage impact of site constraints such
as streets, utilities, railways, existing structures, and development of site
plan.
            (3)   Hydrological Criteria:
               (A)   Design rainfall.
               (B)   Hydrologic analysis for runoff and on site or regional
stormwater detention facilities as required.
               (C)   Hydrologic analysis for compensatory storage requirements
for any alterations of the floodplain.
               (D)   Runoff calculation method.
               (E)   Hydrologic analysis for runoff to ensure conveyance.
               (F)   Detention discharge and storage calculation method.
               (G)   Design storm recurrence intervals.
            (4)   Hydraulic Criteria:
               (A)   Routing of off site drainage flow through the development.
               (B)   Location of watercourse and the appropriate hydraulic
analysis for any alteration of a watercourse.
               (C)   Hydraulic analysis for runoff to ensure conveyance.
               (D)   Hydraulic analysis for compensatory storage requirements
for any alterations of the floodplain.
               (E)   References for calculation of facility capacity.
               (F)   Detention outlet type.
               (G)   Grade control structure criteria used.
         d.   Drainage Facility Design:
            (1)   General Discussion Of:
               (A)   Proposed and typical drainage patterns.
               (B)   Compliance with off site runoff considerations.
               (C)   The content of tables, charts, figures, plates, or
drawings presented in the report.
               (D)   Anticipated and proposed drainage patterns.
            (2)   Specific Discussion Of:
               (A)   Drainage problems encountered and solutions at specific
design points.
               (B)   Detention storage and outlet design.
               (C)   Photographs of downstream channel condition.
               (D)   Maintenance access and aspects of the design.
               (E)   Proposed maintenance agreement.
               (F)   Easements and/or ROW dedications required.
         e.   Impact On Area Of Special Flood Hazard:
            (1)   Location of watercourse and the appropriate hydraulic
analysis for any alteration of a watercourse.
            (2)   Hydraulic and hydrologic analysis for runoff to ensure
conveyance.
            (3)   Hydraulic and hydrologic analysis for compensatory storage
requirements for any alterations of the floodplain.
            (4)   Hydraulic and hydrologic analysis for runoff and on site or
regional stormwater detention facilities, if required.
            (5)   Floodplain boundaries with elevations to 1988 NAVD.
            (6)   Estimate of the quantity of excavation and fill with drawings
indicating each separate excavation or fill (cross sections may be required).
            (7)   All appropriate FEMA (federal emergency management agency)
submittal data to achieve a map revision (LOMR).
            (8)   No rise certification for off site properties.
         f.   Conclusions:
            (1)   Compliance With This Code:
               (A)   Stormwater master plan.
               (B)   Best management practices plan provided and implemented.
            (2)   Drainage Concept:
               (A)   Effectiveness of drainage design to control damage from
storm runoff.
               (B)   Influence of proposed development on the stormwater master
plan recommendation(s).
         g.   References:
            (1)   Reference all criteria and technical information used.
         h.   Appendices:
            (1)   Hydrologic computations:
               (A)   Land use assumptions regarding adjacent properties.
               (B)   Path(s) chosen for computation of time of concentration.
               (C)   Stormwater runoff at specific design points on site and
off site.
               (D)   Historic and fully developed runoff computations at
specific design points.
               (E)   Hydrographs at critical design points if applicable.
            (2)   Hydraulic computations:
               (A)   Culvert capacities.
               (B)   Storm sewer capacity.
               (C)   Street capacity.
               (D)   Storm inlet capacity including inlet control rating at
connection to storm sewer.
               (E)   Open channel design.
               (F)   Check and/or channel drop design.
               (G)   Detention area/volume capacity and outlet capacity
calculations.
         i.   Completed Checklist: Completed drainage and detention checklist
assuring that all items have been addressed.
      3.   Drawing Contents:
         a.   Sheet-1 General Location Map: A map shall be provided in
sufficient detail to identify drainage flows entering and leaving the
development and general drainage patterns. The map should be at a scale of one
inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') to one inch equals four hundred feet
(1" = 400') and show the path of all drainage from the upper end of any off
site basins to the defined major drainageways. The map shall identify any major
construction (i.e., developments, irrigation ditches, existing detention
facilities, culverts, main storm sewers), along the entire path of drainage.
The size of the drawings shall be eight and one-half inches by eleven inches
(81/2" x 11"), eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17"), or twenty two
inches by thirty four inches (22" x 34").
         b.   Sheet-2 Floodplain Information: A copy of the regulatory
floodplain map showing the location of the subject property shall be included
with the report.
         c.   Sheet-3 Drainage Plan: Map(s) of the proposed development at a
scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20') to one inch equals two hundred
feet (1" = 200') on a twenty two inch by thirty four inch (22" x 34") drawing
shall be included. The plan shall show the following:
            (1)   Existing and proposed contours at two foot (2') maximum
intervals. In terrain where the slope is relatively flat, spot elevations and
drainage arrows must be shown.
            (2)   Property lines and easements with purposes noted: name,
address and telephone number of legal owner of property; vicinity sketch.
            (3)   Streets, roads and highways adjacent to the property.
            (4)   Existing drainage facilities and structures, natural or
manmade, including, roadside ditches, drainageways, gutter flow directions, and
culverts. All pertinent information such as material, size, shape, slope, and
location shall also be included.
            (5)   Overall drainage area boundary and drainage subarea
boundaries.
            (6)   Proposed type of street flow (i.e., vertical or combination
curb and gutter), roadside ditch, gutter flow directions, and cross pans.
Include street classifications.
            (7)   Proposed storm sewers and open drainageways, including
inlets, manholes, culverts, retaining walls, erosion control measures, and
other appurtenances.
            (8)   Proposed outfall point for runoff from the developed area and
facilities to convey flows to the final outfall point without damage to
downstream properties.
            (9)   Routing and accumulation of flows at various critical points
for the minor storm runoff.
            (10)   Path(s) chosen for computation of time of concentration.
            (11)   Details of detention storage facilities and outlet works.
            (12)   Location and elevations of all defined floodplains affecting
the property.
            (13)   Location and elevations of all existing and proposed
utilities affected by or affecting the drainage design.
            (14)   Routing of off site drainage flow through the development.
(Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-14: DESIGN RAINFALL:
   A.   Introduction: Presented in this section is the design rainfall data to
be used for runoff hydrograph calculations in HEC-HMS and the rational method.
All hydrological analyses for the city of Ponca City shall utilize the rainfall
data presented herein for calculation of storm runoff.
   B.   Total Rainfall: Total rainfall depths for 1-year through 500-year
storms with storm durations of five (5) minutes to twenty four (24) hours were
developed for the city of Ponca City and are presented in the table below. The
flood insurance rate map, floodway determinations, and flood insurance study
issued by the federal emergency management agency (except for the Arkansas
River main channel) and adopted by the Ponca City board of commissioners used
the twenty four (24) hour duration storm to develop the results presented
therein.
For instances in which a conditional letter of map revision or a letter of map
revision must be submitted to FEMA or when a floodplain development permit is
required by the city of Ponca City then this design rainfall shall be utilized.
See table below in this section.
TOTAL RAINFALL DEPTHS
        Total Rainfall - Inches
         Storm Frequency
         1-Year 2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100- 500-
Duration 100%   50%    20%    10%     4%      2%      Year Year
                                                      1%   0.2%
         Total Rainfall - Inches
          Storm Frequency
          1-Year 2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100- 500-
Duration  100%   50%    20%    10%     4%      2%      Year Year
                                                       1%   0.2%
5 minute  0.36   0.48   0.56   0.62    0.72    0.79    0.86 1.00
15 minute 0.81   0.99   1.18   1.32    1.53    1.69    1.85 2.19
1 hour    1.39   1.79   2.33   2.71    3.23    3.64    4.05 4.99
2 hour    1.68   2.10   2.70   3.21    3.76    4.26    4.76 5.72
3 hour    1.84   2.19   3.06   3.51    4.21    4.67    5.72 6.68
6 hour    2.11   2.64   3.16   4.18    4.83    5.40    6.20 7.44
12 hour   2.57   3.21   4.21   4.88    5.72    6.38    7.27 8.73
24 hour   2.97   3.68   4.78   5.59    6.50    7.37    8.32 10.08
 
   C.   Storm Area Approved Methods: The rainfall depth-duration data presented
in the table above are point rainfall depths. As watershed area increases, it
is unlikely that the rainfall will be evenly distributed over the entire
watershed. Therefore, a storm area equal to the area of the entire watershed
shall be used.
   D.   Storm Duration: All hydrologic studies shall use a storm duration of
twenty four (24) hours except where the rational method is required to be used.
   E.   Balanced Rainfall Distribution: A balanced rainfall distribution shall
be used. The maximum intensity duration shall be set to five (5) minutes and
positioned at the fifty percent (50%) location of the storm.
U.S. weather bureau "Technical Paper No. 40, Rainfall Frequency Atlas Of The
United States" (May 1961) was used for cumulative rainfall data of storm
durations greater than one hour, the national oceanic and atmospheric
administration (NOAA) technical memorandum NWS HYDRO-35 (June 1977) was used
for cumulative rainfall data of storm durations from five (5) to sixty (60)
minutes for development of the flood insurance rate maps. However, those
references were developed prior to the climate changes that the city of Ponca
City is currently experiencing. For example for the period 1931-1960 the
average rainfall for Ponca City was 32.11 inches per year, but the annual
average rainfall for Ponca City for the period 1971-2000 was 36.41 inches per
year.
More current rainfall data is found in USGS "Water Resources Investigations
Report 99-4232 Depth-Duration Frequency Of Precipitation For Oklahoma" a joint
effort by the U.S. geological survey and Oklahoma department of transportation.
WRIR 99-4232 does not include five (5) minute duration information, thus,
HYDRO-35 remains the source of five (5) minute duration information. Rainfall
data to be used for projects in the city of Ponca City is contained in the
table below.
CITY OF PONCA CITY 2009 TOTAL REVISED RAINFALL DEPTH
         Storm Frequency And Total Rainfall In Inches
Duration 50%    20%    10%     4%      2%      1%       0.20%
         2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100-Year 500-Year
          Storm Frequency And Total Rainfall In Inches
Duration  50%    20%    10%     4%      2%      1%       0.20%
          2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100-Year 500-Year
5 minute  0.48   0.56   0.62    0.72    0.79    0.86     1.00
15 minute 0.89   1.16   1.35    1.63    1.87    2.15     2.95
30 minute 1.26   1.64   1.90    2.26    2.56    2.90     3.80
60 minute 1.64   2.18   2.57    3.10    3.55    4.08     5.45
1 hour    1.52   2.07   2.42    2.88    3.20    3.54     4.30
2 hour    1.95   2.68   3.17    3.80    4.25    4.72     5.80
3 hour    2.17   2.98   3.52    4.23    4.75    5.25     6.50
6 hour    2.52   3.47   4.13    5.00    5.65    6.40     8.00
12 hour   2.78   3.85   4.62    5.60    6.40    7.20     9.20
24 hour   3.13   4.35   5.20    6.30    7.15    8.10     10.20
1 day     3.32   4.58   5.50    6.90    8.00    9.25     12.00
3 day     4.02   5.55   6.65    8.15    9.35    10.60    14.00
7 day     4.85   6.67   7.95    9.75    11.20   12.70    16.70
 
   F.   Rainfall Intensity: The rainfall intensity is the average rainfall rate
in inches per hour for the period of maximum rainfall of a given frequency
having duration equal to the time of concentration. As described in the
February 1988 ODOT "Drainage Design Manual", the following equations may
continue to be used in the Ponca City area to calculate the average rainfall
intensity until ODOT revises the intensity-duration-frequency curves shown
below:
I = d/(Tc+e)f
Where:
I = Rainfall intensity, inches per hour
Tc = Time of concentration, minutes
d, e, f = Parameters defined in table below
1988 ODOT RAINFALL
INTENSITY PARAMETERS
Design Storm Parameter
             d e f
Design Storm Parameter
             d     e    f
2 year       56.43 11.5 0.81
5 year       72    15   0.80
10 year      82    15   0.80
25 year      95    15   0.80
50 year      108   15   0.80
100 year     120   15   0.80
 
The following I-D-F curves are preferred for use in Ponca City because they
include adjustments to the more current rainfall patterns. These were developed
by Te Ahn Ngo, P.E., CFM, hydrologist with the Oklahoma department of
transportation utilizing the information developed in WRIR 99-4232.
I = a/(b + Tc)c
Where:
I = Rainfall intensity, inches per hour
Tc = Time of concentration, minutes
a, b, c = Parameters defined in table below
RAINFALL INTENSITY PARAMETERS
Design Storm Parameter
             a b c
Design Storm Parameter
             a   b  c
2 year       47  10 0.79
5 year       53  10 0.76
10 year      59  10 0.75
25 year      70  10 0.75
50 year      75  10 0.74
100 year     86  10 0.74
500 year     127 10 0.77
 
(Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-15: RUNOFF COMPUTATIONS:
   A.   Approved Methods:
      1.   Reflect Current Conditions: The city of Ponca City maintains HEC-HMS
models that reflect current conditions and were used to develop the areas of
special flood hazard defined in title 10, chapter 10 of this code. These models
are based on the SCS method of unit hydrograph calculations, with a twenty four
(24) hour duration storm. The SCS method is acceptable where the rational
method and modified rational method are not required per subsection A4 of this
section.
      2.   Other Methods Used: Where applicable, other methods may be used only
when accepted by the city engineer.
      3.   Rational Method; Modified Rational Method: The rational method was
the predominate hydrology method used to design most of the street drainage and
storm sewers in the Ponca City area and consistency of the hydrology method
utilized is preferred for a drain system design within the area. The
postdevelopment runoff shall be calculated utilizing the same method as
predevelopment runoff was calculated, except that postdevelopment detention
storage requirements shall be determined utilizing the modified rational method
(MRM). The modified rational method is less sensitive to changes in estimation
of time to concentration and accounts for the impact of differing storm
durations.
      4.   Stormwater Runoff Determination: The rational method shall be used
to calculate runoff flows, and the modified rational method shall be used to
calculate stormwater detention volumes for the following:
         a.   Where the predevelopment time of concentration is less than
twenty (20) minutes or the drainage basin is ten (10) acres or less;
         b.   Where the drainage basin does not encroach on an area of special
flood hazard determined in title 10, chapter 10 of this code; and
         c.   Where there is no connection to a storm sewer or drainageway that
is under the jurisdiction of the Oklahoma department of transportation.
      5.   Timing Of Peak Flows: For subdivision development where the rational
method and modified rational method cannot be used by the conditions described
above, the timing of peak flows must be taken into account by using the SCS
hydrograph method for computation of stormwater runoff for a twenty four (24)
hour duration storm.
   B.   Rational Method:
      1.   Formula: The rational method using the Wright-McLaughlin modifier
(correction factor) is based on the formula:
Q = Cf*CIA
Where:
Q = Peak discharge, cubic feet per second
Cf = Runoff correction factor
C = Runoff coefficient, dimensionless (see table, "Rational Method Runoff
Coefficients And Percent Imperviousness", of this section)
I = Rainfall intensity for a duration equal to the time of concentration,
inches/hour
A = Watershed area, acres
      2.   Runoff Correction Factor: Experience has shown that the original
rational method is reliable only when the design storm frequency is less than
or equal to the ten percent (10%) storm. If the design storm frequency is
greater than a ten percent (10%) storm, the following modification shall be
made:
Q = C x Cf x I x A
Where Q, C, I, and A are the same as in the original rational method. However,
when the product of C x Cf exceeds 1.0, then 1.0 shall be used for C x Cf.
Cf = Runoff correction factor, dimensionless **
 
Design Storm Frequency C f
2-10                   1.00
25                     1.10
50                     1.20
100                    1.25
500                    1.43
 
      3.   Runoff Coefficients: Runoff coefficients for different land use or
surface characteristics are found in the table below.
RATIONAL METHOD
RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS AND PERCENT IMPERVIOUSNESS
Land Use Or Surface Characteristic Percent Imperviousness Runoff Coefficients
Land Use Or Surface Characteristic Percent Imperviousness Runoff Coefficients
Business:                                                 
 Commercial Areas                 70 to 95               0.73 to 0.88
 Neighborhood Areas               60 to 80               0.53 to 0.68
Drives and walks                   90 to 100              0.80 to 0.90
Industrial:                                               
 Heavy uses                       80 to 90               0.60 to 0.90
 Light uses                       70 to 80               0.50 to 0.80
Lawns:                                                    
 Clayey soils                     10 to 30               0.18 to 0.22
 Sandy soils                      5 to 10                0.10 to 0.20
Parks, cemeteries                  4 to 8                 0.10 to 0.25
Playgrounds                        40 to 60               0.30 to 0.40
Railroad yards                     35 to 45               0.30 to 0.40
Residential:                                              
 Single-family                    35 to 60               0.36 to 0.49
 Multi-unit (detached)            45 to 55               0.44 to 0.59
 Multi-unit (attached)            65 to 75               0.63 to 0.74
 1/2 acre lot or larger           30 to 45               0.26 to 0.39
 Apartments                       65 to 75               0.54 to 0.67
Roofs                              85 to 95               0.80 to 0.90
Streets:                                                  
 Asphalt                          90 to 100              0.76 to 0.83
 Brick                            75 to 85               0.70 to 0.85
 Concrete                         90 to 100              0.86 to 0.94
 Gravel                           50 to 70               0.55 to 0.65
Undeveloped areas:                                        
 Cultivated                       30 to 70               0.36 to 0.58
 Pasture                          20 to 60               0.29 to 0.42
 Woodland                         5 to 40                0.18 to 0.29
 
The runoff coefficients were based upon slopes up to 6%. For greater slopes use
current ODOT runoff coefficient graphs.
If the subbasin is not homogeneous in its land use type, a composite runoff
coefficient should be calculated by averaging the areas of different runoff
coefficients.
Previously undeveloped land shall utilize a runoff coefficient (C-value) based
upon pasture condition for the slope and soil conditions that currently exist.
For a previously developed site where additional incremental construction is
proposed a weighted predevelopment runoff coefficient that reflects the current
site conditions is the least restrictive predevelopment condition that may be
considered. For previously developed sites for which complete redevelopment is
proposed, the predevelopment condition shall utilize a runoff coefficient (C-
value) based upon pasture condition for the slope and soil conditions that
existed prior to any development on that site.
      4.   Time Of Concentration: Calculation of the time of concentration (Tc)
by methods developed by the Oklahoma department of transportation are
acceptable. Alternatively, the time of concentration (Tc) for the basin shall
be calculated as follows:
Tc is made up of two (2) time components, according to the following equation:
Tc = tI + tT
Where:
Tc = time of concentration (minutes)
tI = initial, inlet, or overland flow time (minutes)
tT = travel time in the ditch, channel, gutter, storm sewer, etc. (minutes)
For urban areas, the time of concentration consists of an overland flow time
(tI) plus the time of travel (tT) in the storm sewer, paved gutter, roadside
drainage ditch, or drainage channel.
      1.   Valid only for overland flow paths up to 500 feet long.
      2.   For flow paths >500 feet long, use "grassed waterway" or "paved
area" line.
For nonurban areas, the time of concentration consists of an overland flow time
(tI) plus the time of travel in a combined form, such as a small swale,
channel, or drainageway.
Overland flow time tI varies with surface slope, surface cover and distance of
surface flow and is estimated using the appropriate line/formula below.
If the overland travel reach exceeds five hundred feet (500'), the "grassed
waterway" or "paved area (sheet flow) and shallow gutter flow" line/formula
should be used since the runoff will combine and the sheet flow assumption is
no longer correct.
The latter portion (tT) of the time of concentration can be estimated from the
hydraulic properties of the storm sewer, gutter, swale, ditch, or drainageway,
or may be calculated using the "paved area (sheet flow) and shallow gutter
flow" line/formula in the travel time velocity figure.
   C.   Unit Hydrograph Methods:
      1.   HEC-HMS: HEC-HMS shall be used to model hydrologic calculations
involving runoff for watersheds which cannot use the rational method as
described in subsection A4 of this section and the SCS unit hydrograph method
shall be used.
      2.   SCS Unit Hydrograph Method: The soil conservation service (SCS)
method is presented in detail in section 4 of the U.S. department of
agriculture "Soil Conservation Service Engineering Handbook" and "Model
Drainage Manual", American Association Of State Highway And Transportation
Officials, 1991.
   D.   Modified Rational Hydrograph Method: The modified rational method was
documented in a report referenced below:
Poertner, H.G. "Practices In Detention Of Urban Stormwater Runoff". American
Public Works Association, OWRR contract no. 14-31-0001-3722, Chicago, 1974.
(Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-16: STREET DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Criteria For Street Drainage And Storm Sewer Systems:
      1.   Roadway Drainage Systems:
         a.   Storm Sewer Systems: The city of Ponca City permits the use of
streets for stormwater runoff within the following limitations:
            (1)   Curb Inlet Locations: Inlets shall be located at
intersections to prevent the flow from crossing the intersection. Inlets at
intersections shall be located so they do not encroach upon the curb return. No
drainage structure shall be permitted at a wheelchair ramp.
            (2)   Storm Sewers: Storm sewers will be designed so that there
will be no adverse impact within any special flood hazard area.
            (3)   Cross Drains And Side Drains:
               (A)   For principal arterials, cross drains and side drains will
pass the two percent (2%) (50-year) storm. Inlets will be designed so that the
ten percent (10%) (10-year) storm does not exceed curb depth.
               (B)   For other arterials, cross drains and side drains will
pass the four percent (4%) (25-year) storm. Inlets will be designed so that the
ten percent (10%) (10-year) storm does not exceed curb depth.
               (C)   For collector streets, cross drains and side drains will
pass the ten percent (10%) (10-year) storm. Inlets will be designed so that the
ten percent (10%) (10-year) storm does not exceed curb depth.
               (D)   For local streets, cross drains and side drains will pass
the ten percent (10%) (10-year) storm. Inlets will be designed so that the
twenty percent (20%) (5-year) storm does not exceed curb depth.
               (E)   For collector and local streets that would be isolated
with no street access in a 25-year storm, cross drains and side drains will
pass the four percent (4%) (25-year) storm. Inlets will be designed so that the
four percent (4%) (25-year) storm does not exceed the centerline by more than
0.33 feet (4 inches).
            (4)   Exceeding Boundaries Of Right Of Way: In no case shall the
runoff from the 100-year storm exceed the boundaries of the street right of
way.
         b.   Overland Flow Portion Of The Collector System: The overland flow
portion of the collector system shall be confined to dedicated rights of way,
or restricted drainage easements to assure that stormwater can pass through the
development without inundating the lowest level of any building, dwelling, or
structure. Drainage easements shall be shown on the plat. The stormwater runoff
from no more than one-half (1/2) acre shall be allowed onto another lot or
between two (2) lots without a storm drainage easement.
         c.   Emergency Overflow Easement: The emergency overflow easement
shall state on the plat that the easement is provided for overland flow of
stormwater in the event the inlet of the sewer becomes clogged or the
regulatory event is exceeded and that the area shall be maintained by the
property owner or homeowners' association at its prescribed elevation and
further that the property owner and homeowners' association are prohibited from
constructing a fence, wall, planting or otherwise inhibiting the intended
overland relief.
      2.   Depth In Streets: Use of streets for conveyance of stormwater runoff
shall be within the following limitations:
         a.   In all cases, the 100-year flow shall be contained within the
right of way.
         b.   For the 25-year frequency rainstorm, two (2) driving lanes of
arterial streets and one driving lane for collector streets shall remain open.
Depth of flow for arterial, and collector streets shall not exceed six inches
(6") at the gutter line or at outside edge of paving. Where no curb exists
stormwater encroachment shall not extend past the street right of way.
         c.   For the 10-year frequency rainstorm one driving lane for local
streets shall remain open and depth of flow shall not exceed six inches (6") at
the gutter line or outside edge of paving.
         d.   At sump locations, the water depth shall not exceed twelve inches
(12") above the top of the grate for the 100-year frequency rainstorm.
         e.   Where sump collection systems are used, an overflow route shall
be established in the event of complete blockage of the sump in accordance with
subsection A1c of this section.
         f.   At least one street from the drive entrance to/from a critical
facility to a street intersection with at least two (2) different directions of
public streets shall remain passable during a one percent (1%) storm. In order
to be considered passable the depth of flow during a one percent (1%) storm
shall not exceed the greater of the height of the curb or the vertical distance
from the curb and gutter invert to the centerline of the street.
      3.   Location Of Storm Sewers: Storm sewer shall not be placed within the
wheel path of any driving lane of the pavement. The preferred location of the
storm sewer is according to the following order of priority listed.
         a.   Behind the curb.
         b.   Down the center of the traffic lane. (The traffic lane is defined
as the normal width provided for each lane and delineated by pavement stripes.)
         c.   On centerline.
   B.   Drainage Impact On Streets:
      1.   Sheet Flow: To minimize the effects of hydroplaning and splashing of
sheet flow, the streets of Ponca City are designed with a two percent (2%) (1/
4 inch per foot) cross slope. At intersections with arterial streets only the
cross slope may be decreased to one percent (1%) (1/8 inch per foot). In
addition, for arterial streets, the amount of flow permitted in the street is
limited to the outside lane before a storm sewer inlet is required.
      2.   Cross Flow: The depth of cross flow permitted in nonarterial
streets, where it cannot be avoided, is limited to the top of curb. Cross flow
in arterial streets is not permitted and is strongly discouraged for collectors
and residential streets.
      3.   Valley Gutters: Concrete valley gutters are required in asphalt
streets when the longitudinal grade is one percent (1%) or less. The width of
the valley gutter will be determined by the depth required. The maximum slope
of the lateral grade shall be five percent (5%). If a birdbath exists on an
asphalt valley greater than one percent (1%), then a concrete valley gutter
shall be constructed.
   C.   Hydraulic Evaluation:
      1.   Curb And Gutter Capacity:
         a.   The allowable storm capacity of each street section with curb and
gutter shall be calculated using the modified Manning's formula:
Q = 0.56(Z/n)S1/2YT8/3
Where:
Q = discharge in cfs
Z = reciprocal of the street cross slope (Sx, ft/ft)
YT = depth of flow at the gutter (feet)
S = longitudinal grade of street (ft/ft)
n = Manning's roughness coefficient
         b.   Manning's roughness coefficient, n, shall be used according to
the applicable construction condition from the table below.
MANNING'S VALUES FOR STREET GUTTERS
Construction Type                      n
Asphalt pavement:                       
 Rough texture                        0.016
 Smooth texture                       0.013
Brick                                  0.016
Concrete gutter troweled finish        0.012
Concrete gutter with asphalt pavement:  
 Rough                                0.015
 Smooth                               0.013
Concrete pavement:                      
 Broom finish                         0.016
 Float finish                         0.014
 
Note: For gutters on flat grades where sediment may accumulate, increase all
above values of n by 0.002.
Source: "Drainage Design Manual", ODOT, February, 1988.
         c.   When the street cross section has different cross slopes,
capacity computation shall take into account the various cross slopes.
   D.   Storm Sewer Inlets:
      1.   Design Criteria:
         a.   Inlet Types:
            (1)   Three (3) types of inlets are used in the city of Ponca City:
curb opening inlets, combination grated and curb opening inlets and median
inlets. Multiple inlets occur when more than one inlet (of the same type) is
used in a continuous series, resulting in greater flow interception capacity.
            (2)   Inlet types shall be in accordance with the ODOT standard
drawings.
            (3)   On arterial streets, offset type inlet, ODOT standard SSCD-2,
shall be used.
         b.   Location Of Inlets:
            (1)   Inlets At Low Points: Inlets shall be located at all low
points in the gutter grade, on side streets at intersections where runoff would
flow onto an arterial street or highway and upgrade of bridges to prevent
runoff from flowing onto the bridge deck. Inlets are also required when the
allowable depth of flow in the gutter is exceeded.
            (2)   Inlets At Intersections: Inlets at intersections shall be
located in such a manner that no part of the inlet will encroach upon the curb
return. Inlets on a continuous grade in the interior of a block should be
placed upstream of a nearby driveway, if possible. The flow line and top of
curb elevations shall be shown on all inlets.
            (3)   Spacing Between Inlets: The spacing between inlets shall be
such that depths of flow and widths of spread requirements are not violated.
         c.   Interception And Bypass:
            (1)   The type of inlet to be used and the percent of flow to be
intercepted at a particular location are left to the judgment of the designer.
The objective is to minimize the cost of the storm sewer system while
satisfying all of the design criteria. In general, an interception rate of
seventy (70) to eighty percent (80%) will result in an economical design.
            (2)   Hydraulic design of inlets shall be in accordance with this
section.
      2.   Inlets In Sump Condition: When inlets are placed in a sump,
emergency overflow shall be provided as described in subsections A1c and A2e of
this section.
         a.   Hydraulic Evaluation Methodology:
            (1)   Curb and grate inlet capacities shall be in accordance with
FHWA HEC-22 methods.
         b.   Grate Inlets:
            (1)   Grated inlets without a curb opening are not permitted within
city of Ponca City streets.
            (2)   The bicycle safe grates (in combination with a curb opening)
are the only grates approved by the city of Ponca City within the street right
of way.
            (3)   When a grate is used in conjunction with a curb opening
directly behind the grate, only the hydraulic capacity of the grate shall be
utilized to estimate the flow that is intercepted, since the curb opening
portion is reserved to collect debris.
         c.   Curb Opening Inlets:
            (1)   Two (2) types of curb opening inlets are approved by the city
of Ponca City: cast in place concrete inlets, and manufactured metal inlets.
(Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-17: STORM SEWER PIPE SYSTEM:
   A.   Introduction: A "storm sewer system" refers to a system of inlets,
pipes, manholes, junctions, outlets, and other appurtenant structures designed
to collect and convey storm runoff to a defined drainageway. A "drainage
system" also includes curbs and gutters, roadside ditches, swales, channels,
and detention systems for the control of overland runoff. In general, a storm
sewer system is required when other parts of the drainage system no longer have
the capacity for additional runoff without exceeding the design criteria.
   B.   Design Criteria:
      1.   Storm Sewer Velocity:
         a.   The capacity and velocity shall be based on the Manning's n-
values presented in the table below. The maximum full flow velocity shall be
less than twelve (12) fps. Higher velocities may be accepted by the city
engineer if the design includes adequate provisions for uplift forces, dynamic
impact forces and abrasion. The minimum velocity in a pipe based on full flow
shall be 2.5 fps to avoid excessive accumulations of sediment.
HYDRAULIC DATA FOR PIPE
Material n-Value
Material                                    n-Value
Concrete:                                    
  Cast in place:                             
 Steel forms                               0.013
  Wood forms                                0.015
 Precast pipe                              0.012
 Reinforced concrete box                   0.015
Corrugated metal pipe:                       
 Aluminized                                0.012
 Galvanized                                0.024
Plastic:                                     
 Corrugated polyethylene                   0.022
 Corrugated polyethylene (smooth interior) 0.012
 Polyvinyl chloride (smooth interior)      0.012
 
         b.   The energy grade line (EGL) for the design flow shall be no more
than one foot (1') above the final grade at manholes, inlets, or other
junctions. To ensure that this objective is achieved, the hydraulic grade line
(HGL) and the EGL shall be calculated by accounting for pipe friction losses
and pipe form losses. Total hydraulic losses will include friction, expansion,
contraction, bend, manhole, and junction losses.
   C.   Construction Materials: Storm sewers within the city of Ponca City may
be constructed using reinforced concrete, corrugated metal, or plastic pipe.
The materials, pipes, and appurtenances shall meet the requirements of ODOT's
standard specifications. The pipe material for roadway crossings shall be
reinforced concrete pipe.
   D.   Vertical Alignment:
      1.   The sewer grade shall be such that a minimum cover is maintained to
withstand AASHTO HS-20 loading on the pipe. The minimum cover depends upon the
pipe size, type and class, and soil bedding condition, but shall not be less
than one foot (1') from the top of pipe to the finished grade at any point
along the pipe. The pipe shall not encroach into the street subgrade.
      2.   Manholes will be required whenever there is a change in size,
alignment, elevation grade and slope, or where there is a junction of two (2)
or more sewers. For sewers equal to or larger than sixty inches (60") diameter,
preformed smooth transitions shall be approved by the city engineer. The
maximum spacing between manholes for various pipe sizes shall be in accordance
with the table below.
STORM SEWER ALIGNMENT AND SIZE CRITERIA MANHOLE SPACING
Pipe Size (Inches) Maximum Spacing For Manholes  Minimum Manhole Size (Feet)
                   (Feet)
Pipe Size (Inches) Maximum Spacing For Manholes  Minimum Manhole Size (Feet)
                   (Feet)
   15 to 24     400                           4
   27 to 42     500                           5
   48           600                           6
   54 to 66     600                           8
   >66          600                           Junction structure
                                                
MINIMUM RADIUS FOR RADIUS PIPE
Short radius bends shall not be used on sewers 36 inches or less in diameter
for public systems.
 
MINIMUM PIPE DIAMETER
Type               Minimum Equivalent Pipe       Minimum Cross Sectional Area
                   Diameter (Inches)             (Square Feet)
Main trunk         15                            1.23
Lateral from inlet 15                            1.23
 
      3.   The minimum clearance between storm sewer and water main (for new
construction), either above or below shall be twelve inches (12"). Ductile iron
pipe (with proper bedding) will be required for clearances of twelve inches
(12") or less when the clearance between existing water mains cannot be
maintained.
      4.   The minimum clearance between storm sewer and sanitary sewer (for
new construction), either above or below, shall be twelve inches (12"). In
addition, when an existing sanitary sewer main lies above a storm sewer, or
within eighteen inches (18") below, the sanitary sewer shall have impervious
encasement or be constructed of ductile iron pipe for a minimum of ten feet
(10') on each side of the storm sewer crossing.
      5.   Siphons or inverted siphons are not allowed in the storm sewer
system.
   E.   Horizontal Alignment:
      1.   Storm sewer alignment between manholes shall be straight.
Curvilinear storm sewers using pipe bends or radius pipes require a technical
variance and approval of the city engineer.
      2.   A minimum horizontal clearance of ten feet (10') is required between
sanitary sewer or water utilities and the storm sewer.
      3.   The permitted locations for storm sewer within a street right of way
are:
         a.   Behind the curb,
         b.   Down the center of the driving lane, and
         c.   On centerline.
Behind the curb is the preferred location. The storm sewer shall not be allowed
in the wheel path.
   F.   Storm Sewer Outlets: All storm sewers and storm sewer outlets into open
channels shall be constructed with a headwall and wingwalls or a flared end
section. Erosion control measures shall be taken at all outfalls. (Ord. 6123,
6-28-2010)
12-8-18: OPEN CHANNELS:
   A.   Channel Design:
      1.   Design: Channels shall be designed in accordance with sound
engineering principles.
      2.   Channel Geometry: For trapezoidal channels, the minimum bottom width
shall be four feet (4') with side slopes of not steeper than 3.5 to 1 for
sodded sections and a minimum bottom width of three feet (3') with side slopes
of not steeper than one to one (1:1) for paved or rock lined sections. Where
the public may be exposed to hazards and nuisances of open channels,
appropriate measures shall be taken to exclude the public from the perilous
area.
      3.   Manning's n-Value: Manning's equation in the calculations of
hydraulic characteristics of channels will be acceptable. The "n" value used
for channels shall be based on the individual channel characteristics,
according to the table below. Designers should anticipate growth of trees as a
natural maturation process of the channel. Values less than 0.05 shall be
justified.
MANNING'S n-VALUE FOR OPEN CHANNELS
Channel Type n-Value Range Recommended Value
Channel Type                n-Value Range  Recommended Value
Grass lined, maintained     0.029 to 0.100 0.035
Grass lined, not maintained 0.045 to 0.10   
Natural streams             0.025 to 0.100 Field determine
Riprap lined:                              
 Ordinary riprap           0.025 to 0.050 0.035
 Gabions                   0.025 to 0.050 0.035
 Grouted riprap            0.023 to 0.030 0.027
 Slope mattress            0.025 to 0.033 0.028
Float finished/wood forms   0.013 to 0.016 0.015
Slip formed                 0.013 to 0.016 0.015
Gunite                      0.016 to 0.023 0.019
 
      4.   Minimum Slope: Channels shall have minimum slopes of 0.1 percent for
concrete lined channels and 0.2 percent for grass lined channels. The city
engineer's acceptance is required for channels with a flatter slope.
      5.   Minimum Velocity: Minimum velocity in a drainageway system, having a
roughness coefficient less than or equal to 0.015, shall be 2.5 fps to avoid
sedimentation.
      6.   Maximum Velocities: Velocities shall not exceed six (6) fps for
sections sodded in grass depending on soil conditions. Velocities in concrete
lined or paved sections shall not exceed fifteen (15) fps. The dissipation of
energy shall be required at the confluence of improved channels with natural
channels through the use of dissipaters, stilling basins and etc., which shall
be designed in accordance with FHWA HEC #14 "Hydraulic Design Of Energy
Dissipaters For Culverts And Channels Drainage Manual".
      7.   Freeboard: Where practical, the design water surface elevation shall
be kept below the level of natural ground. A one foot (1') freeboard above the
energy grade line should be added to calculated flow depths to determine
minimum channel depths.
      8.   Base Flood Elevation: Base flood elevation (BFE) or floodplain
boundary changes shall be approved by FEMA.
   B.   Trickle Channels:
      1.   All channels altered or improved from the natural state will require
a paved trickle channel unless a variance is granted by the city engineer.
Sodding, or other methods of erosion control shall be required adjacent to the
paved channel.
   C.   Concrete Flumes:
      1.   Concrete flumes in lieu of enclosed pipe shall be allowed as
overflow protection for storm sewer systems, and to drain areas not exceeding
two (2) acres in size. All concrete flumes shall extend to the rear of adjacent
lots and shall discharge into a dedicated drainage facility or channel. There
will be no special freeboard requirement for concrete flumes.
   D.   Roadside Ditches:
      1.   Roadside ditches shall only be utilized in areas of RA zoning and
for city streets through areas in agricultural land use. Roadside ditches shall
be designed to contain the one percent (1%) storm within the street right of
way, contain the twenty percent (20%) storm within the ditch with six inches
(6") of freeboard, and not cause an adverse impact during a one percent (1%)
storm. (Ord. 6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-19: HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definitions:
    BRIDGE: Constructed with abutments and superstructures, which are typically
concrete, steel, or other materials. Since the superstructures are generally
not an integral structural part of the abutments, and are therefore free to
move, the hydraulic criteria for bridges is different than for culverts.
Bridges are also usually constructed with earth or rock inverts, whereas
culverts are typically the same material throughout the waterway opening.
   CULVERT: A closed conduit for the passage of water under an embankment, such
as a road, railroad, or driveway. The distinction between a culvert and a sewer
is the means by which flow enters the conduit. Flow normally enters a culvert
by an open channel, generally at a similar elevation and a culvert usually
crosses a street.
   B.   Culverts:
      1.   Construction Materials:
         a.   Culverts beneath paving shall be constructed of reinforced
concrete or corrugated metal in accordance with the table below. Other
materials may be used on a case by case basis on acceptance by the city
engineer.
   CULVERT MATERIALS
Pipe Material Standard
Pipe Material                      Standard
Concrete cast in place box         ODOT standard
Corrugated aluminum alloy:          
 Alloy pipe and underdrains       AASHTO M-196
 Aluminized type II coated        AASHTO M-274
 Structural plate                 AASHTO M-219
Corrugated steel:                   
 Bituminous coated pipe/arches    AASHTO M-190
 Metallic coated for sewer/drains AASHTO M-196
 Polymer precoated                AASHTO M-245
 Structural plate                 AASHTO M-167
Precast concrete box               ASTM C-789/C-850, AASHTO M-259/273 or ODOT
Precast concrete manholes          ASTM C-478 or AASHTO M-199
Reinforced concrete pipe:           
 Arch                             ASTM C-506 or AASHTO M-206
 Elliptical                       ASTM C-507 or AASHTO M-207
 Round                            ASTM C-76 or AASHTO M-170
 
         b.   Culverts in grass areas as where vehicular traffic is not
anticipated may be constructed of high density polyethylene pipe (HDPE)
conforming to AASHTO M 294 type S or SP, noncorrugated PVC pipe conforming to
ASTM D 3034 DR 26, or corrugated PVC pipe conforming to ASTM F 949.
      2.   Sizing Method:
         a.   Culvert design shall follow the methodology presented in
"Hydraulic Design Of Highway Culverts", hydraulic design series HDS no. 5,
FHWA, U.S. department of transportation and "Drainage Manual", Oklahoma
department of transportation, 1992.
      3.   Design Frequency:
         a.   Minimum design frequency for culverts shall be according to
subsection 12-8-16A1 of this chapter.
      4.   Minimum Size:
         a.   Pipe culverts: Fifteen inches (15") equivalent.
         b.   Box culverts: Three feet (3') in height.
      5.   Velocity Limitations:
         a.   In design of culverts both the minimum and maximum velocities
must be considered. A minimum velocity of three feet (3') per second at the
outlet is required to assure a self-cleaning condition of the culvert.
         b.   The outlet area shall include a headwall with wingwalls or an end
section in addition to the riprap protection if required. Where outlet
velocities exceed six feet (6') per second, erosion control measures shall be
taken. Energy dissipaters shall be provided as required.
      6.   Structural Design:
         a.   Culverts shall be designed to withstand an HS-20 loading in
accordance with the design procedures of AASHTO "Standard Specifications For
Highway Bridges" and with the pipe manufacturer's recommendations. In addition,
the AASHTO maximum heights of cover for corrugated metal structures shall also
be followed. The minimum cover over top of the pipe shall be twelve inches
(12") unless otherwise accepted by the city engineer.
      7.   Driveway Crossings:
         a.   Driveway culverts shall be sized to pass the ten (10) year ditch
flow capacity without over topping the driveway. The minimum size culvert shall
be a fifteen inch (15") round pipe, or equivalent, for all streets. Sloped
headwalls required per the city's standard details.
      8.   Culvert Openings: All culvert openings shall be protected by an end
treatment designed for the pipe materials and appropriate application,
including prefabricated end sections, headwalls with wingwalls or concrete
culvert end treatments, in accordance with ODOT standard drawings.
   C.   Bridges:
      1.   Velocity Limitations:
         a.   The velocity limitations through the bridge opening are
controlled by the potential abutment scour and subsequent erosion protection
provided. Using riprap for the channel lining and/or protection of the
abutments and wingwalls, the maximum channel velocity is limited to fifteen
(15) fps.
      2.   Hydraulic Analysis:
         a.   The hydraulic design of bridge crossings shall be in accordance
with "Drainage Manual", Oklahoma department of transportation, most current
edition.
      3.   Inlet And Outlet Configuration:
         a.   The design of bridges shall include adequate wingwalls of
sufficient length to prevent abutment erosion and to provide slope
stabilization from the embankment to the channel. Erosion protection on the
inlet and outlet transition slopes shall be provided to protect from the
erosive forces of eddy current.
      4.   Design Criteria: Bridges shall be designed in accordance with
AASHTO/ODOT criteria. Rails shall comply with ODOT standard details. (Ord.
6123, 6-28-2010)
12-8-20: STORMWATER DETENTION:
   A.   General:
      1.   See subsection 12-8-15A4 of this chapter for stormwater runoff
determination methods.
      2.   The detention storage shall accommodate the excess runoff from a
100-year frequency storm. The excess runoff is that runoff generated due to
urbanization which is greater than the runoff historically generated under
existing conditions, for a given frequency storm. Detention facilities shall be
designed so that the peak rate of discharge does not exceed that of the
predevelopment conditions for all storm events up to and including 100-year.
      3.   Peak release rates from developments shall not exceed the existing
runoff that occurred before development for all storm frequencies up to and
including the 100-year frequency storm. Releases for 2-, 5-, 10-, 25-, 50- and
100-year storms shall not exceed the existing rate.
      4.   Generally, urbanization results in more impervious area and a
reduction in floodplain storage, both of which contribute to increased flow
rates. If improvements are made to any natural channel downstream from an area
which requires a minimum pipe diameter of forty eight inches (48") to discharge
a 10-year frequency storm, current floodplain storage must be maintained.
      5.   The city of Ponca City requires the following minimum performance
standards for drainage facilities:
Detention: Detention facilities shall have a release rate which does not exceed
the predevelopment runoff conditions for all flood frequencies up to and
including the one percent (1%) storm.
For all stormwater detention facilities, the releases shall be conveyed such
that there is no adverse impact downstream. The table below outlines the
various freeboard requirements.
FREEBOARD REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER DETENTION FACILITIES
 
Embankment Or  1% (100-Year) Water 1% (100-Year) Water  0.2% (500-Year) Water
Excavated Pond Surface Elevation   Surface Elevation    Surface Elevation Or
               Depth                                    Probable Maximum Flood
Embankment or                      Contained within a
excavated      <18 inches          dedicated stormwater  
                                   detention easement
                                                        Contained within the
                                                        detention facility with
Embankment     18 inches to 6 feet                     1 foot of freeboard to
                                                        the top of the
                                                        embankment 1
                                   Contained within the
                                   detention facility
Excavated      >18 inches          with 1 foot of        
                                   freeboard to the top
                                   of the embankment1
 
Note:
1.   Unless more stringent OWRB dam safety requirements control, as outlined in
title 785:25-3-3 of the Oklahoma administrative code, found at: http://
www.oar.state.ok.us/viewhtml/785_25-3-3.htm.
      6.   An accessway at least twenty feet (20') wide shall be provided to
any required detention area. Access may be provided by frontage on a dedicated
public street or by an access easement from a dedicated public street to the
detention area.
      7.   Any dam or berm shall be designed in accordance with the dam safety
criteria of the Oklahoma water resources board, if the requirements of OWRB
apply.
      8.   The maintenance responsibility for on site detention facilities
shall remain with the private sector and appropriate covenants shall be
obtained to secure such maintenance.
   B.   Physical Features:
      1.   Detention dams or dikes shall be constructed as earth filled and
nonoverflow type dams. Embankment slopes shall not be steeper than four to one
(4:1). Spillways shall be constructed to pass the 500-year flood event with a
minimum of one foot (1') of freeboard on the earth dam structure unless
stricter criteria control.
      2.   Side slopes on detention facilities shall not be steeper than four
to one (4:1).
      3.   Access road, with grade of ten percent (10%) or less, shall be
provided to the detention areas for maintenance purposes.
      4.   Detention facilities shall be provided with a low flow concrete
trickle channel from the inlet to the outlet structure to transmit low flows.
      5.   Storm sewer outlets in the slope of the detention pond shall be
protected by a reinforced concrete slopewall.
      6.   All earth slopes and earth areas subject to erosion, such as,
adjacent to low flow channels, inlet structures, and outlet structures shall be
slab sodded with Bermuda sod or protected with other erosion control measures.
All other earth surfaces, within the area designated for detention facility
site, shall have an established growth of Bermuda grass. All covered areas
shall be fertilized, watered and in an established growing condition prior to
completion and acceptance of the detention facility.
   C.   Fee In Lieu Of On Site Detention:
      1.   The owner shall have the option of paying the fee in lieu of on site
detention or constructing on site detention facilities except at locations
where on site detention facilities are required.
      2.   Payment in lieu of detention facilities may be considered only in
the following locations:
         a.   In development areas adjacent to regional detention facilities;
or
         b.   In areas downstream of regional detention facilities within the
boundaries of mitigation of flood elevations provided by the regional detention
facility; or
         c.   Within the special flood hazard area of the Arkansas River main
channel; or
         d.   Any new development containing an impervious area of no more than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         e.   In rural acreage subdivisions.
         f.   Immediately adjacent to or within the central business district.
         g.   The fee rate is based on square feet of impervious area of the
proposed development. The fee is twelve cents ($0.12) per square foot. (Ord.
6123, 6-28-2010)
