CITY CODE
of
POTEAU, OKLAHOMA
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 840, passed February 3, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Poteau, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 840, passed February 3, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 735
An ordinance adopting and enacting a code of ordinances of the city of Poteau,
Oklahoma; providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not included therein,
except as hereafter provided; providing for new or revised and continuing
provisions and regulations;
      1.   Administration
      2.   Finance and taxation
      3.   Business and license regulations
      4.   Health and sanitation
      5.   Public safety
      6.   Motor vehicles and traffic
      7.   Public ways and property
      8.   Utilities
      9.   Building regulations
      10.   Planning and development
      11.   Zoning regulations
      12.   Subdivision regulations
Providing when this ordinance shall become effective; providing for sale and
copies in the clerk's office; providing for supplements or changes to code; and
providing for an effective date.
Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, that:
SECTION 1 TITLE.
A code and revision of the ordinances of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, is
hereby adopted as the "city code of Poteau, Oklahoma," or by any other properly
identifying designation.
SECTION 2 CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive ordinance
of the town which shall supersede all other general and permanent ordinances
enacted by the city council prior to February 2, 2015, except such as by
reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and
effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before February 2, 2015, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4 ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any ordinance
adopted after February 2, 2015, and before the effective date of this code; nor
shall the repeal affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the
effective date of this ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall the
repeal affect the administrative regulations or resolutions of the city council
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the code; nor shall the
repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of
the city council to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal
affect any zoning ordinances, or amendments to the land use plan; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the town; nor
shall the repeal affect any annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for
local improvements and assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect
any ordinance extending the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance or resolution establishing rates, fees or charges, except
those specifically re-established in this code, until the city council re-
establishes such rates, fees or charges by ordinance or resolution. The
continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts of
ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5 INCLUDES NEW OR REVISED PROVISIONS.
The provisions in this code, in addition to those identified herein, include,
but are not limited to, revised and new provisions or regulations on:
      1.   Administration
      2.   Finance and taxation
      3.   Business and license regulations
      4.   Health and sanitation
      5.   Public safety
      6.   Motor vehicles and traffic
      7.   Public ways and property
      8.   Utilities
      9.   Building regulations
      10.   Planning and development
      1.   Zoning regulations
      12.   Subdivision regulations
SECTION 6 ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted
either:
      1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
      2.   Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by resolution or ordinance of
the city council, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7 SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
By contract or by city personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the city council. A change to the code shall include
all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city
council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by
the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a change
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be up to date to the date to which the code is being brought up to date.
The words "as amended" and the date, may be added to the title after the year.
After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of copies of the
change equal at least to the number of copies of the code still in existence,
shall be deposited in the office of the city clerk. The city clerk, if
possible, shall notify each holder of a copy of the original code about the
availability of the change or supplement.
SECTION 8 SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code to
the public at a price determined from time to time by the city council.
SECTION 9 COPY OF CODE IN CLERK'S OFFICE.
A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk. This copy of the code shall be
available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be certified by the
city clerk as may be required.
SECTION 10 PREPARATION OF CODE.
The code of ordinances hereby adopted consists of twelve (12) parts, all of
which have been examined, considered and approved by the city council of the
city of Poteau and adopted in compliance with sections 14-109 et seq. of title
11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
ADOPTED and APPROVED by the mayor and council of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma,
this 2nd day of February, 2015.
         (Seal)
         /s/ Jeff Shockley   
         Mayor
         /s/ Tami Conner   
         City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 840
An ordinance adopting and enacting a code of ordinances of the CITY OF POTEAU,
Oklahoma; providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not included therein,
except as hereafter provided; providing for new or revised and continuing
provisions and regulations;
   1.   Administration
   2.   Finance and Taxation
   3.   Business and License Regulation
   4.   Health and Sanitation
   5.   Public Safety
   6.   Motor Vehicles and Traffic
   7.   Public Ways and Property
   8.   Utilities
   9.   Building Regulations
   10.   Planning and Development
   11.   Zoning Regulations
   12.   Subdivision Regulations
Providing when this ordinance shall become effective; providing for sale and
copies in the clerk's office; providing for supplements or changes to code; and
providing for an effective date.
Be it ordained by the City Council of the CITY OF POTEAU, Oklahoma, that:
SECTION 1 TITLE. A code and revision of the ordinances of the CITY OF POTEAU,
Oklahoma, is hereby adopted as the “City Code of Poteau, Oklahoma,” or by any
other properly identifying designation.
SECTION 2 CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive ordinance
of the town which shall supersede all other general and permanent ordinances
enacted by the city council prior to February 3, 2025, except such as by
reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and
effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before February 3, 2025, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4 ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any ordinance
adopted after February 3, 2025, and before the effective date of this code; nor
shall the repeal affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the
effective date of this ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall the
repeal affect the administrative regulations or resolutions of the city council
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the code; nor shall the
repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of
the city council to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal
affect any zoning ordinances, or amendments to the land use plan; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the town; nor
shall the repeal affect any annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for
local improvements and assessing charges therefore; nor shall the repeal affect
any ordinance extending the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance or resolution establishing rates, fees or charges, except
those specifically re-established in this code, until the city council
reestablishes such rates, fees or charges by ordinance or resolution. The
continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts of
ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5 INCLUDES NEW OR REVISED PROVISIONS.
The provisions in this code, in addition to those identified herein, include,
but are not limited to, revised and new provisions or regulations on:
   1.   Administration
   2.   Finance and Taxation
   3.   Business and License Regulation
   4.   Health and Sanitation
   5.   Public Safety
   6.   Motor Vehicles and Traffic
   7.   Public Ways and Property
   8.   Utilities
   9.   Building Regulations
   10.   Planning and Development
   11.   Zoning Regulations
   12.   Subdivision Regulations
SECTION 6 ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted
either:
   1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
   2.   Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by resolution or ordinance of
the city council, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7 SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
By contract or by city personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the city council. A change to the code shall include
all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city
council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by
the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a change
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be up to date to the date to which the code is being brought up to date.
The words "as amended" and the date, may be added to the title after the year.
After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of copies of the
change equal at least to the number of copies of the code still in existence,
shall be deposited in the office of the city clerk. The city clerk, if
possible, shall notify each holder of a copy of the original code about the
availability of the change or supplement.
SECTION 8 SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code to
the public at a price determined from time to time by the city council.
SECTION 9 COPY OF CODE IN CLERK'S OFFICE.
A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk. This copy of the code shall be
available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be certified by the
city clerk as may be required.
SECTION 10 PREPARATION OF CODE.
The code of ordinances hereby adopted consists of twelve (12) parts, all of
which have been examined, considered and approved by the city council of the
City of Poteau and adopted in compliance with sections 14-109 et seq. of title
11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
ADOPTED and APPROVED by the mayor and council of the City of Poteau, Oklahoma,
this 3rd day of February, 2025.
    \s\ Scotty White
   Mayor
    \s\ Tami Sprabery
   City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be,
and shall hereafter constitute, the official city code of Poteau. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the POTEAU CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Numbering System: All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   B.   Ordaining Language: Amendments to any of the provisions of this code
may be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of
this code in substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the City
Council of the City of Poteau, Oklahoma, that section            of the code of
ordinances of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows:" (set out new provisions in full).
   C.   New Provisions: When the city council desires to enact an ordinance of
a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the
code, which the city desires to incorporate into the code, a section in
substantially the following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section           . Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Poteau,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, and the sections of
this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   Provisions Repealed: All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of
this code desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or
chapter number, as the case may be. (1990 Code § 1-106)
1-1-4: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the
corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1990 Code § 1-110)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this code by authorized persons shall be permitted. Any
person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1990 Code § 1-107; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinance: The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive
any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took
effect. (1985 Code § 1-104)
   B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code. (1990 Code § 1-105)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004 Code)
   C.   Words and phrases which are not specifically defined in section
1-3-2 of this chapter shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   D.   "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it. (1990 Code § 1-102)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CLEET: Council on law enforcement and education training.
CITY: The city of Poteau, county of LeFlore, state of Oklahoma. This term shall
be construed as if the words "of Poteau, Oklahoma" followed them.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Poteau.
CODE: The city code of the city of Poteau.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
COUNTY: The county of LeFlore, state of Oklahoma.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Poteau".
GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to other
genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LAW: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Poteau.
MONTH: A calendar month.
OS: Oklahoma Statutes.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made to officers, agencies
or departments by title only, i.e., "clerk", "city clerk", "city attorney",
"fire chief", "chief of police", etc., they shall mean the officers, agencies
or departments of the city of Poteau.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
STATE OR THIS STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1990 Code § 1-102; amd. 2004 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1990
Code § 1-103; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed 1 : Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever
in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made
and declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the
code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 695, 5-
3-2010)
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense.
   C.   Aiding Or Abetting Violation 2 : Any person who shall aid, abet or
assist in the violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in this section. (1990 Code § 1-108; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-11-23 of this title for basic fines and costs.
2 2. See also section
  5-4A-2 of this code.
1-4-2: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (1990 Code § 1-
109)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2004 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND WARD BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Map; Corporate Limits
1-5-2: Ward Boundaries
1-5-1: OFFICIAL MAP; CORPORATE LIMITS:
The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city. (1990 Code §
1-201; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The city is divided into four (4) wards. The boundaries of said wards shall be
as established by ordinance, a copy of which shall be and remain on file in the
office of the city clerk. (1990 Code § 1-202; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election Of Officers; Terms
1-6-2: Time Of Holding Elections
1-6-3: Elections Nonpartisan
1-6-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; TERMS:
   A.   In a statutory aldermanic city, the terms of the elected officers of
the city shall be staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the
following officers are to be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   One council member from each ward;
      2.   The mayor;
      3.   The city clerk;
      4.   The chief of police; and
      5.   The street commissioner.
   B.   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to
be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   One council member from each ward; and
      2.   The city treasurer. (1990 Code § 2-102)
1-6-2: TIME OF HOLDING ELECTIONS:
General municipal elections shall be held on the first Tuesday in April of each
odd numbered year. (1990 Code § 2-102; amd. Ord. 516, 6-5-1995)
1-6-3: ELECTIONS NONPARTISAN:
Elections for offices of the city shall be on a nonpartisan basis, and general
elections shall be held in accordance with state law. (Ord. 516, 6-5-1995)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Mayor Council Form Of Government
1-7-2: City Council Provisions
1-7-3: Mayor, Duties
1-7-4: Council Meetings
1-7-5: Quorum
1-7-6: Rules Of Procedure
1-7-1: MAYOR COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The city is governed by the statutory aldermanic or mayor council form of
government. The powers of the city are vested in the mayor and city council.
(1990 Code § 2-101)
1-7-2: CITY COUNCIL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Composition: The city council shall consist of eight (8) council
members, two (2) elected from each ward of the city.
   B.   President: The council shall elect from among its members a president
of the council. The council president shall be elected in each odd numbered
year at the first council meeting held after council terms begin or as soon
thereafter as practicable, and he shall serve until his successor has been
elected and qualified. The council president shall act as mayor in the absence
of the mayor. While presiding in the place of the mayor, he shall have all the
powers, rights and privileges as other members of the council.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The city council shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed by law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 2-202)
1-7-3: MAYOR, DUTIES:
   A.   Preside At Meetings: The mayor shall preside at meetings of the city
council and certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions
passed by it.
   B.   Voting: The mayor is not considered a member of the council for quorum
or voting purposes, except that he may vote on questions under consideration by
the council only when the council is equally divided.
   C.   Sign Or Veto Ordinances: The mayor may sign or veto any city ordinance
or resolution passed by the city council.
   D.   Chief Executive Officer: The mayor shall be chief executive officer and
head of the administrative branch of the city government. He is also recognized
as the head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and by the
governor for purposes of military law.
   E.   Other Powers And Duties: He shall have such powers and duties as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 2-201)
1-7-4: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the first Monday of every month. If such a Monday falls
on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next day
which is not a holiday. (1990 Code § 2-203; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or any three (3) council members may call
special meetings. The call for special meetings must be in writing and specify
the subjects to be considered. No business other than that specified in the
call shall be transacted at the special meeting. (1990 Code § 2-204; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Open Meetings: Meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, pursuant to 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 301 et seq. (2004 Code)
   D.   Place Of Meetings:
      1.   Every meeting of the council shall be held in the council chamber in
the city hall unless, in case of an emergency, the mayor or the council members
calling a special meeting designate another place in the city for the holding
of the special meeting.
      2.   An adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within the city
designated by the city council. (1990 Code § 2-206)
   E.   Compensation For Attendance: The mayor shall be paid no dollars ($0.00)
for each meeting of the city council the mayor attends and each council member
shall be paid ten dollars ($10.00) for each meeting of the council such council
member attends; provided, however, that neither the mayor nor a council member
shall be paid in any one month for attendance at more than two (2) special
meetings of the city council. (Ord. 671, 2-2-2007)
1-7-5: QUORUM:
In all cases, it shall require a majority of the council members elected to
constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day
to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under
such penalties as the council may by ordinance have previously prescribed.
(1990 Code § 2-205)
1-7-6: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Determination Of Rules; Compelling Attendance: The city council may
determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance of absent members in the
manner and under penalties as the council may prescribe. Whenever a member is
absent from more than one-half (1/2) of all meetings of the council, regular
and special, held within any period of four (4) consecutive months, he shall
thereupon cease to hold office.
   B.   Order Of Business; Agenda: The order of business for each meeting of
the council shall be as posted on the agenda for the meeting.
   C.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern matters
not included or covered in this code or in rules adopted by the city council.
(1990 Code § 2-207)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Bond
1-8-2: Oath
1-8-3: Salaries
1-8-4: Removal Or Suspension Of Personnel
1-8-5: Social Security
1-8-1: BOND:
   A.   Bonding Of Certain Officials: Before entering upon their official
duties, the following personnel of the city government shall provide bonds for
the faithful performance of their official duties, payable to the city, with a
surety company authorized to operate within the state:
      1.   City treasurer;
      2.   City clerk; and
      3.   Any employee or officer receiving, disbursing or having charge of
public funds.
   B.   Other City Officers And Employees: The city council, by motion or
resolution, may require other officers and employees in such positions as it
may designate to be bonded.
   C.   Premiums Paid By City: The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(1990 Code § 2-409)
1-8-2: OATH:
All officers of the city, but not employees, are required to take the oath or
affirmation of office prescribed by the state constitution before they enter
upon their duties. (1990 Code § 2-410)
1-8-3: SALARIES:
   A.   Elected Officials:
      1.   Salaries Set By Council By Ordinance: The pay period for the
designated elected officials of the city of Poteau shall be monthly. The
following designated elected officials shall be paid the salaries each pay
period as set by the city council by ordinance:
         a.   Mayor.
         b.   President of council.
         c.   Vice president of council.
         d.   Council members. (Ord. 671, 2-2-2007)
         e.   Marshal. (Per correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
         f.   Street commissioner.
         g.   City clerk. (Ord. 671, 2-2-2007)
      2.   Benefits: Elected officials, other than the mayor or council
members, shall be subject to the same policy for vacation, sick leave or other
leave, insurance and other benefits provided for employees of the city. (1990
Code §§ 2-407, 2-408)
      3.   Salary Increases: At the beginning of each fiscal year, the salaries
of mayor, marshal, and street commissioner may be increased by an amount that
is computed by multiplying the average percentage increase granted all other
city employees during the previous fiscal year times the salaries paid the
above designated officers during the previous year. (Ord. 671, 2-2-2007; amd.
per correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
   B.   Other Officers And Employees:
      1.   Fixing Compensation: The city council, by motion or resolution
adopted, may fix the compensation of other personnel, officers and employees,
and may change such compensation at any time in the same manner. (1990 Code §§
2-407, 2-408)
      2.   Changing During Term: The salary or emoluments of any officer
elected or appointed for a definite term shall not be changed after his
election or appointment or during his term of office unless by operation of an
ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment. This subsection B2
shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees. (1990
Code § 2-408)
1-8-4: REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF PERSONNEL:
Except as may be otherwise provided by law, officers and employees of the city
who are appointed by the mayor with approval of the city council may be
removed, suspended, or laid off by the mayor with approval of the council.
(1990 Code § 2-406)
1-8-5: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the city to extend, at the earliest date, to the eligible employees
and officials of the city the benefits of the system of federal old age and
survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act and all
amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance
of this policy, the officers and employees of the city shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1990
Code § 2-501)
   B.   Execution Of Agreement With State Agency: The mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the state
department of human services to accomplish the provisions of subsection A of
this section. (1990 Code § 2-502)
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purposes provided in subsection A of this section are hereby
authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state or federal agency designated by the laws and regulations. (1990 Code § 2-
503)
   D.   Contributions: Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts
appropriated for these purposes from available funds to the designated state or
federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. (1990 Code § 2-504)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city shall keep such records and submit such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1990 Code § 2-505)
   F.   Exclusions: Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
social security benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
      1.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city; or
      2.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (1990 Code § 2-506)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8A-1: City Clerk
1-8A-2: City Treasurer
1-8A-1: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Election; Term: The city clerk is an officer of the city, elected for a
four (4) year term as provided in subsection 1-6-1A3 of this title. (1990 Code
§ 2-301)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Attend Meetings; Record Ordinances: The city clerk shall attend
meetings of the city council and shall keep a journal of its proceedings, as
provided by law. He shall enter at length all ordinances passed by the council
in the ordinance book, as required by law.
      2.   Keep City Seal: He shall keep the seal of the city and affix it to
documents as required by law or ordinance.
      3.   Financial Duties: The city clerk shall collect or receive revenues
and other monies for the city as provided by law or ordinance, and shall
deposit all such monies promptly with the city treasurer. He shall keep proper
books of accounts and other financial records, properly recording all financial
transactions.
      4.   Other Powers And Duties: He shall have all other powers and duties
prescribed by law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 2-302)
1-8A-2: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Election; Term: There shall be a city treasurer, who is an officer of
the city, elected for a four (4) year term as provided in subsection 1-6-1B2 of
this title. (1990 Code § 2-303)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Receive And Deposit Monies: The city treasurer shall receive all
monies of the city paid to him in accordance with law or ordinance and shall
deposit daily all funds coming into his hands in such depositories as the city
council may designate. He shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by
applicable law or ordinance.
      2.   Keep Books Of Accounts: He shall keep proper books of account and
other financial records, properly recording all financial transactions.
      3.   Other Powers And Duties: He shall have such other powers, duties,
and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or ordinance. (1990 Code §
2-304)
ARTICLE B. OTHER OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-8B-1: City Attorney
1-8B-2: County Health Department; Director
1-8B-3: Other Personnel Appointed
1-8B-4: Street Commissioner, Duties
1-8B-5: Marshal, Duties
1-8B-1: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The city attorney shall be appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by the city council, and shall hold office at the
pleasure of the mayor and council. He shall have such qualifications, powers,
and duties as are prescribed by law by the governing body for city attorneys.
   B.   Duties: It shall be his duty to advise the mayor and council and each
member thereof, and all city officials, upon all law questions, and he shall
give opinions in writing when requested, and shall represent the city as
counsel in all litigation, in all courts, for or against the city, and shall
perform such other legal service in behalf of the city, its officers or
employees, as may be required.
   C.   Compensation: Compensation of the city attorney shall be established by
the mayor and council. (1990 Code § 2-401)
1-8B-2: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR 1 :
The health department of the county and its director shall have the powers of a
city health department and city health officer respectively for the city,
unless another person is designated by the mayor and council. References to
health department and health officer or director of the health department in
this code and in other ordinances of the city mean the county health department
and its director, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning. (1990
Code § 2-402; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-1-1 of this code.
1-8B-3: OTHER PERSONNEL APPOINTED:
The mayor, with approval of the city council, shall appoint such other
personnel as may be necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties
relative to the functions which are lawfully imposed upon or assumed by the
city. (1990 Code § 2-403)
1-8B-4: STREET COMMISSIONER, DUTIES:
The street commissioner shall have such powers and duties as may be defined by
law and by the mayor and city council. The street commissioner may be the head
of the street department. (1990 Code § 2-405; amd. per correspondence dated 9-
12-2014)
1-8B-5: MARSHAL, DUTIES:
The marshal shall have such powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance. The marshal may be the chief of police. (Per
correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
CHAPTER 9
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Fire Pension System
1-9-2: Police Pension System
1-9-3: Employee Retirement System
1-9-1: FIRE PENSION SYSTEM:
   A.   Local Firefighters Pension And Retirement Board: There is hereby
created a local firefighters pension and retirement board composed of the
mayor, the city clerk, the city treasurer and three (3) members from the fire
department. The board shall have the membership, organization, powers, duties
and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-103 et seq.
(1990 Code § 2-601)
   B.   Fund Operated In Accordance With Law: The city firefighters pension and
retirement system and fund shall be operated in accordance with state law
relating to the fund and system. (1990 Code § 2-602)
   C.   Contributions To Fund:
      1.   The city clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid
member of the fire department the amounts which are required by applicable
state law. If the members of the fire department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with
the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
fire department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
      2.   The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters pension and retirement board the amounts of monies which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the fire department.
      3.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the city treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement
board the amounts of monies which are required by applicable state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board.
      4.   All assets of the city firefighters pension and retirement fund
shall be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters pension and retirement board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the state board. (1990 Code § 2-603)
1-9-2: POLICE PENSION SYSTEM:
   A.   System Created; Compliance With State Law: There is hereby created the
police pension and retirement system of the city for the purpose of providing
pension benefits for retired and disabled police personnel, their widows and
children in accordance with state law governing police retirement. (1990 Code §
2-610)
   B.   Board Of Trustees: A board of trustees of the police pension and
retirement system shall be formed according to law and it shall administer such
system and carry out any and all duties assigned to or granted it by law,
including the distribution of monies received by it from the state or from
other sources. (1990 Code § 2-611)
   C.   State Laws Adopted: The provisions of state law, and amendments made
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this section as though
literally rewritten and restated herein, insofar as such statutes pertain to
police retirement. (1990 Code § 2-612)
1-9-3: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
There is hereby adopted by reference, as though set forth herein in its
entirety, an employee retirement system for the city. A copy of said retirement
system, and amending ordinances, shall be on file and available for inspection
in the office of the city clerk. (1990 Code §§ 2-620 – 2-625; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY RECORDS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Appointment Of Official Custodians
1-10-3: Designation Of Additional Record Custodians
1-10-4: Duties Of Custodians
1-10-5: Requests Directed To Custodians
1-10-6: Inspection And Copying Procedures
1-10-7: Inspection Request Procedures
1-10-8: Copy Request Procedures
1-10-9: Fees; Exception
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Any public body charged with enforcing state or local
criminal laws and initiating criminal prosecutions, including, but not limited
to, police departments, county sheriffs, the department of public safety, the
Oklahoma state bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs control, the alcoholic
beverage laws enforcement commission, and the Oklahoma state bureau of
investigation.
PUBLIC BODY: Shall include, but not be limited to, any office, department,
board, bureau, commission, agency, trusteeship, authority, council, committee,
trust or any entity created by a trust, county, city, village, town, township,
district, school district, fair board, court, executive office, advisory group,
task force, study group, or any subdivision thereof, supported in whole or in
part by public funds or entrusted with the expenditure of public funds or
administering or operating public property, and all committees, or
subcommittees thereof.
PUBLIC OFFICE: The physical location where public bodies conduct business or
keep records.
PUBLIC OFFICIAL: Any official or employee of any "public body" as defined
herein.
RECORD: A. All documents, including, but not limited to, any book, paper,
photograph, microfilm, data files created by or used with computer software,
computer tape, disk, and record, sound recording, film recording, video record
or other material regardless of physical form or characteristic, created by,
received by, under the authority of, or coming into the custody, control or
possession of public officials, public bodies, or their representatives in
connection with the transaction of public business, the expenditure of public
funds or the administering of public property.
   B.   "Record" does not mean computer software, nongovernment personal
effects, personal financial information, credit reports or other financial data
obtained by or submitted to a public body for the purpose of evaluating credit
worthiness, obtaining a license, permit, or for the purpose of becoming
qualified to contract with a public body. (2004 Code)
1-10-2: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS:
The following city officials are hereby appointed as official custodians for
purposes of the Oklahoma open records act 1  and are charged with
responsibility for compliance with that act with respect to the following
listed public records:
   A.   City Clerk: All public records kept and maintained in the city clerk's
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
   B.   City Treasurer: All public records not on file in the office of the
city clerk and kept and maintained in the city treasurer's office.
   C.   Chief Of Police: All public records not on file in the office of the
city clerk and kept and maintained in the city police department.
   D.   Fire Chief: All public records not on file in the office of the city
clerk and kept and maintained in the city fire department.
   E.   City Attorney: All public records not on file in the office of the city
clerk and kept and maintained in the city attorney's office.
   F.   Court Clerk: All public records not on file in the office of the city
clerk and kept and maintained in the municipal court.
   G.   City Librarian: All public records not on file in the office of the
city clerk and kept and maintained in the city library. (1990 Code § 2-701)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS § 24A.1 et seq.
1-10-3: DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS:
   A.   Designation Of Subordinates: Each of the official custodians appointed
in section
1-10-2 of this chapter is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate
officers or employees to serve as record custodian. The record custodians shall
have such duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma open records act.
   B.   Register Of Designations: Whenever an official custodian shall appoint
another person as a record custodian, he or she shall notify the city clerk of
such designation and the city clerk shall maintain a register of all such
designations. (1990 Code § 2-702)
1-10-4: DUTIES OF CUSTODIANS:
All city officials and employees appointed or designated under this chapter
shall: protect public records from damage and disorganization, prevent
excessive disruption of the essential functions of the city, provide assistance
and information upon request, ensure efficient and timely action and response
to all applications for inspection of public records, and shall carry out the
procedures adopted by the city for inspecting and copying of open public
records. (1990 Code § 2-703)
1-10-5: REQUESTS DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS:
   A.   Addressing Request To Proper Custodian: All members of the public, in
seeking access to, or copies of, a public record in accordance with the
provisions of the Oklahoma open records act, shall address their requests to
the custodian charged with responsibility for the maintenance of the record
sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Advising Person Of Other Custodian: Whenever any city official or
employee appointed or designated as a custodian under this chapter is presented
with a request for access to, or copy of, a public record which record the
custodian does not have in his possession and which he has not been given
responsibility to keep and maintain, the custodian shall so advise the person
requesting the record. The person making the request shall be informed as to
which custodian the request should be addressed, if such is known by the
custodian receiving the request. (1990 Code § 2-704)
1-10-6: INSPECTION AND COPYING PROCEDURES:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each
official custodian and record custodian:
   A.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records.
   B.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied.
   C.   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time.
   D.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be performed
by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for such
records.
   E.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored,
except that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution.
   F.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record.
   G.   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time the
records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the record
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the record custodian or city clerk.
   H.   The record custodian or city clerk shall demand full or partial
prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the amount set
out in subsection 1-10-9C of this chapter.
   I.   No record search or copying charge shall be assessed against officers
or employees of the city who make requests which are reasonably necessary to
the performance of their official duties.
   J.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours.
   K.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted.
   L.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the record
custodian. (1990 Code § 2-705)
1-10-7: INSPECTION REQUEST PROCEDURES:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by every
official custodian and record custodian:
   A.   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records.
   B.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the record.
In all cases the party so requesting must sign his or her individual name to
the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the record
custodian and presented to the record custodian.
   C.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the record
sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient information
to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such identification.
   D.   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the mayor. (1990 Code § 2-706)
1-10-8: COPY REQUEST PROCEDURES:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each
official custodian and record custodian:
   A.   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records.
   B.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the copies.
In all cases the party so requesting must sign his or her individual name to
the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the record
custodian.
   C.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it is
the judgment of the record custodian that any available means of mechanically
reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such record.
   D.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (1990 Code § 2-707)
1-10-9: FEES; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Inspection; No Fee: Where a request has been made for the inspection of
an open public record, no fee shall be charged. (1990 Code § 2-708)
   B.   Fees Established:
      1.   Copying: A fee per page as set by the city council by motion or
resolution shall be charged for photocopying an open public record, such fee to
cover the cost of labor, materials and equipment. (1990 Code § 2-709)
      2.   Mechanical Reproduction: For copying any open public record which
cannot be reproduced by photocopying, such as a computer printout or a
blueprint, the requester shall be charged the actual cost to the city,
including the cost of labor, materials and equipment. (1990 Code § 2-710)
      3.   Search: A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the
record solely for a commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to
the city of producing the record, including the cost of labor, materials and
equipment. (1990 Code § 2-711)
   C.   Prepayment Of Fees: A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee
whenever the estimated amount exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). The prepayment
amount shall be an estimate of the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or
searching for the record. Any overage or underage in the prepayment amount
shall be settled prior to producing the requested record or delivering the copy
or mechanical reproduction of the record. (1990 Code § 2-712)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Organization Of Court
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Jurisdiction Of Court
1-11-4: Judge Of The Court
1-11-5: Chief Of Police
1-11-6: Clerk Of The Court
1-11-7: Prosecuting Attorney
1-11-8: Rules Of Court
1-11-9: Prosecutions By Written Complaints
1-11-10: Traffic Violations Bureau; Fines
1-11-11: Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
1-11-12: Exceptions To Bail Bond Procedure
1-11-13: Dishonored Checks Or Instruments; Warrants
1-11-14: Arrest, Citation And Bail For Ordinance Violations
1-11-15: Summons For Arrest
1-11-16: Execution Of Arrest Warrant
1-11-17: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
1-11-18: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
1-11-19: Trials And Judgments
1-11-20: Witness Fees
1-11-21: Sentencing
1-11-22: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
1-11-23: Fines And Costs
1-11-24: Penalty Assessment
1-11-1: ORGANIZATION OF COURT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city, as put into operation by resolution, duly passed and filed in
accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-101 and
27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any ordinances of the city, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. The court shall become operative on and after January 6, 1969.
(1990 Code § 6-101; amd. 2004 Code)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the city.
CLERK: The court clerk of the city, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the court clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the city.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of the city is situated. (1990 Code § 6-102;
amd. 2004 Code)
1-11-3: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (1990 Code § 6-103)
1-11-4: JUDGE OF THE COURT:
   A.   Qualifications:
      1.   There shall be one judge of the court. A judge shall be an attorney
licensed to practice law in Oklahoma or a resident of the city, of the age of
twenty one (21) years or older, possessed of good moral character.
      2.   The judge may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he
shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or arising
out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein.
      3.   He must be a resident of the county or maintain a law office
therein.
      4.   He may serve as judge of other municipal courts, if such service may
be accomplished consistently with his duties as judge of this court, with the
consent of the mayor and council. (1990 Code § 6-104)
   B.   Term: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years expiring on
the first Monday of May of each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (1990 Code § 6-105)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed for each judge of the court
an alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the judge
in this chapter. His appointment shall be for the same term and made in the
same manner as the judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case
if the judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court:
      2.   Unable to act as judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (1990 Code § 6-106)
   D.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly
appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint
some person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the
judge, who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (1990 Code § 6-107)
   E.   Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge:
      1.   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the
consent of the city council.
      2.   A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the city
council at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day
upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the
next regularly scheduled meeting.
      3.   The city council may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the city council unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws
the proposed appointment. (1990 Code § 6-108)
   F.   Salary And Payments To Judges:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive compensation as set by the city council by motion or resolution.
      2.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the city council; however, payments to an acting or
alternate judge shall not exceed the salary set for a judge in whose stead he
sits. An alternate or acting judge who sits for an entire month shall receive
the amount set by the city council as the salary of the judge in whose stead he
sits. (1990 Code § 6-109)
   G.   Removal Of Judge; Hearing:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the city council
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         a.   The mayor; or
         b.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of the city.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      2.   The city council shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
         a.   Representation by counsel;
         b.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against
him; and
         c.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      3.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings (75 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 309 to 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the city council, in favor of such removal. (1990
Code § 6-110)
   H.   Vacancy In Office Of Judge:
      1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made. (1990 Code § 6-111)
   I.   Disqualification Of Judge: In prosecutions before the court, no change
of venue shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may
certify his disqualification or he may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a
judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting
judge appointed as provided in this chapter. (1990 Code § 6-112)
1-11-5: CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the chief of police of the city, who shall be the principal officer of the
court, or some appropriate peace officer. (1990 Code § 6-113)
1-11-6: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be the clerk of the
court. He shall:
         a.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers.
         b.   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court.
         c.   Enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of
the court.
         d.   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct.
         e.   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits, and sums of
monies payable to the court.
         f.   Pay to the treasurer of the city all monies so received by him,
except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by
him for special purposes.
      2.   All monies paid to the treasurer shall be placed in the general fund
of the city, or in such other funds as the city council may direct, and it
shall be used in the operation of the city government in accordance with
budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed. (1990 Code §
6-114)
   B.   Bond: The court clerk shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to
the city council for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the clerk
of the city and retained in the city archives. (1990 Code § 6-116)
1-11-7: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
The attorney for the city, or his duly designated assistant, may be the
prosecuting officer of the court. He may also prosecute all alleged violations
of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to
prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review from this court to
any other court of the state, and to represent the city in all proceedings
arising out of matters in this court. (1990 Code § 6-115)
1-11-8: RULES OF COURT:
   A.   Prescribing: The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of
the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct of the
business of the court. (1990 Code § 6-117)
   B.   Enforcement: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed against
process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this state. (1990 Code § 6-118)
1-11-9: PROSECUTIONS BY WRITTEN COMPLAINTS:
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the city shall be styled "The
city of Poteau vs. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the city
attorney. (1990 Code § 6-119)
1-11-10: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; FINES:
   A.   Bureau Established; Rules: There may be established a traffic
violations bureau for the city. The judge may establish rules, consistent with
the laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the traffic
violations bureau.
   B.   Acceptance Of Fines; Schedule On File: The traffic violations bureau
shall accept fines which may be paid in lieu of a court appearance for such
traffic offenses as may be designated by the judge under the court's rules. The
schedule of fines shall be adopted by the city council from time to time by
motion or resolution. A copy shall be kept in the clerk's office.
   C.   Payment Of Fines To Bureau: Payment of any fine to the traffic
violations bureau shall be deemed a final determination of the cause against
the defendant.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fine; Prosecution: If a defendant who has elected to pay
a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the
provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code § 6-120)
1-11-11: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES 1 :
   A.   Conditions For Release For Traffic Violations: In addition to other
provisions of law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this
state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for
a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law or city traffic ordinance shall
be released by the arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any party jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact.
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person. (1990 Code § 6-121)
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician.
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; (1990 Code § 6-121;
amd. 2004 Code)
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Arresting Officer Duties Upon Release Of Traffic Violator:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driver's license in this state, or in
the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Compliance With State Law; Various Procedures: Procedures for
arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty
or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of
arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driver's license, shall be as
required in state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   Guilty Plea; Payment Of Fine: A defendant released upon personal
recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the
violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for arraignment
by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or on a
legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs
to the court clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail.
If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided
for in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted by the court and the amount
of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the violation
charged or as prescribed by the court.
   E.   Failure To Appear; Warrant; License Suspension:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of
the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Record Of License Suspension Requests; Notification: The court clerk
shall maintain a record of each request for driver's license suspension
submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant to the provisions
of this section. When the court or court clerk receives appropriate bail or
payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements
with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court clerk shall furnish
proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall
mail such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant. Additionally, the court or court clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction
is a member of the nonresident violator compact, and shall in all other cases,
notify the state department of public safety of the resolution of the case. The
form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
state department of public safety. Provided however, the court or court clerk's
failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this
subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon the court, the
court clerk, the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any state
department or agency or any employee thereof, but duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto upon request. (1990 Code § 6-121)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-2-5 of this code.
1-11-12: EXCEPTIONS TO BAIL BOND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Failure To Appear; Warrant Issuance: If a person arrested for a traffic
violation is released upon personal recognizance as provided for in section
1-11-11 of this chapter, but subsequently posts bail and thereafter fails to
timely appear as provided for by law, the court may issue a warrant for the
person's arrest and the case shall be processed pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 27-118. (1990 Code § 6-122)
   B.   Arraignment: If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance as provided for in section
1-11-11 of this chapter, or if eligible but refuses to sign a written promise
to appear, the officer shall deliver the person to the judge for arraignment
and the judge shall proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no judge is
available, the defendant shall be placed in the custody of the appropriate
jailer, to be held until a judge is available or bail is posted. (1990 Code §
6-122; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Juveniles:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held
in custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but shall be
incarcerated separately from any adult offender. Provided, however, the
arresting officer shall not be required to:
         a.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section; or
         b.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
            (1)   Who is injured, disabled, or otherwise incapacitated;
            (2)   If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
            (3)   If extraordinary circumstances exist, which, in the judgment
of the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
      2.   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time
for arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the person's
arrest. (1990 Code § 6-122)
1-11-13: DISHONORED CHECKS OR INSTRUMENTS; WARRANTS:
A personal check or other instrument tendered to the court clerk for bail or
for the payment of fine and costs, if dishonored and returned to the clerk for
any reason other than the lack of proper endorsement, shall constitute
nonpayment of bail or fine, as the case may be, and the court, in addition to
any civil or criminal remedy otherwise provided for by law, may issue a bench
warrant for the arrest of the person named on the citation to require his
appearance on the charge specified. (1990 Code § 6-123)
1-11-14: ARREST, CITATION AND BAIL FOR ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   City Resident:
      1.   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which section
1-11-11 of this chapter does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
nontraffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. Provided, however, the
arresting officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the
officer:
         a.   That the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage
to property if released;
         b.   That the person will not appear in response to the citation; or
         c.   The person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property.
      2.   If the person fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant
shall be issued for his arrest and his appearance shall be compelled. If the
arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a citation as
herein provided, he shall be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment, or shall be released on personal recognizance.
   B.   Nonresident: If a nonresident of the city is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which this section
does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either
before or after arraignment. (1990 Code § 6-124)
1-11-15: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any
ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or
unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested
and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in
the court on a certain day as specified after the summons is served upon him,
and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Serving Summons; Issuance Of Warrant: The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy to the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (1990 Code § 6-125)
1-11-16: EXECUTION OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest; Form: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances
of the city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the
attorney of the city or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of
arrest, in substantially the following form:
    The City of Poteau to the Police Chief
    of Poteau, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith
to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name of
defendant) before me, at the municipal courtroom,
Witness my hand this            day of                , 20     .
                                              
Judge of the Municipal Court
Poteau, Oklahoma.
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It is the duty of the police chief, personally,
or through a duly constituted member of the police force of the city, or
through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as
promptly as possible. (1990 Code § 6-126)
1-11-17: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Bail Or Bond Allowed: Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in
response to citation or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after
arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail
for his appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or
the judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of
bail. In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency
or when the judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of
police, or his designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty
provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
   B.   Bail Bond Schedule: A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the judge
and be amended from time to time. (1990 Code § 6-127)
1-11-18: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the city, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1990 Code § 6-128)
1-11-19: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial or be represented by counsel if permitted by the judge. (1990 Code § 6-
129)
   C.   Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or
by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective. (1990 Code § 6-129; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Render Judgment: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
the trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within
the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   E.   Judgment And Sentence: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   G.   Payment Of Fine Or Imprisonment; Inability To Pay Fine:
      1.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day imprisonment for
each five dollars ($5.00) of fine or as set out in subsection G2 of this
section for defendants who are without means to make such payment.
      2.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the district court of the county wherein the
situs of government is situated where it shall be entered upon the district
court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district
court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the
enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
(1990 Code § 6-129)
1-11-20: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Fees Paid By Defendant; Deposit: Witnesses in any proceeding in the
court other than the police officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a
sum per each day of attendance. However, no witness shall receive fees in more
than one case for the same period of time or the same travel. A defendant
seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to
cover fees for one day of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
   B.   Indigent Persons:
      1.   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
      2.   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city. (1990 Code §
6-130)
1-11-21: SENTENCING:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: The judge may suspend, modify, defer or
reduce a sentence in accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and
27-124.
   B.   Discretion Of Judge:
      1.   A judge who is licensed to practice law in this state in imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, or
suspend or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify.
      2.   Procedures relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both
shall be as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-123.
      3.   Upon completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be
discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of
guilty or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the record and the charge
dismissed with prejudice to any further action.
      4.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of probation have
been violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty.
      5.   The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence for
a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence. At the
expiration of such period of time, the judge may allow the city attorney to
amend the charge to a lesser offense.
      6.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. (1990
Code § 6-131)
1-11-22: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   Imprisonment Or Community Service: All sentences of imprisonment shall
be executed by the chief of police of the city, and any person convicted of a
violation of any ordinance of the city and sentenced to imprisonment shall be
confined in the jail, in the discretion of the court, for the time specified in
the sentence; provided, however, the court may, in lieu of imprisonment, order
the defendant to engage in a term of community service without compensation.
   B.   Certified Judgment: If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is
entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the
chief of police, the sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer.
Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   C.   Work Requirement; Allowance: All prisoners confined to jail on
conviction or on plea of guilty, upon request of the prisoner and if approved
by the city, may be allowed to work on the public streets, avenues, alleys,
parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of such
work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two (2) days of imprisonment
under his sentence.
   D.   Direction Of Chief Of Police: The chief of police, subject to the
direction of the city council, shall direct where the work shall be performed.
The head of the department in charge of the place where the work is to be
performed, himself, or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the
work. If a guard is necessary, the chief of police shall make provision
therefor. (1990 Code § 6-132)
1-11-23: FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   Fines And Costs Assessed: If judgment of conviction is entered, the
clerk of the court shall tax the costs to the defendant, which shall be the
maximum amount authorized by state law, plus the fees of witnesses, but the
total amount of fine may not exceed the amount set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code and up to thirty (30) days in jail. (1990 Code § 6-133)
   B.   Schedule Of Basic Fines: Effective July 1, 2010, the following schedule
of basic fines (not including CLEET penalty or court costs) is hereby adopted:
APC/OP a motor vehicle                                    $227.00
Allowing an unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle
(                                                         117.00
6-2-9)
Amplified sound (                                         127.00
5-4C-5)
Animal at large citation (                                87.00
5-7B-6)
Assault and battery (                                     500.00
5-4C-2)
Assault on an officer (                                   500.00
5-4E-3)
Attempting to elude an officer (                          500.00
5-4E-1)
Bogus tags/decal (                                        117.00
6-2-2B)
Careless driving (                                        205.00
6-4-17)
Carrying a concealed weapon (                             500.00
5-4C-4A)
Contempt of court (                                       127.00
1-11-8B)
Contributing to delinquency of a minor (                  205.00
5-4D-1B)
Curfew (                                                  67.00
5-5A-4)
DUI (driving under influence)                             500.00
DUS (driving under suspension) (                          500.00
6-2-2A2)
Destruction of property                                   500.00
Discharging a firearm in the city limits (                500.00
5-4C-4C)
Disobeying a stop sign (                                  136.00
6-8-3)
Disorderly conduct (                                      127.00
5-4C-1)
Disturbing the peace (                                    117.00
5-4C-1)
Domestic abuse                                            500.00
Drinking in public (                                      227.00
3-2-12)
Driving the wrong way on a one-way road                   117.00
Failure to appear                                         125.00
Failure to carry insurance verification (                 87.00
6-2-3)
Failure to comply with compulsory insurance law (         127.00
6-2-3)
Failure to comply with lawful order of an officer (       127.00
6-2-7)
Failure to give required report of accident (6-2-4C)      127.00
Failure to pay all taxes due the state (                  97.00
6-2-2B)
Failure to secure load (                                  127.00
6-9-6D)
Failure to stop and remain at accident (                  500.00
6-2-4A)
Failure to stop at a red signal light (                   87.00
6-8-7A1)
Failure to stop for school bus (                          500.00
6-4-11)
Failure to use child safety restraints (                  55.00
6-2-18)
Failure to use safety restraints (                        20.00
6-2-18)
Failure to yield (                                        87.00
6-4-32E)
Failure to yield to emergency vehicle (                   117.00
6-2-15B)
Failure to yield to vehicle in intersection (             87.00
6-4-28)
Fighting in public (                                      117.00
5-4C-1)
Following too closely (                                   87.00
6-4-8)
Giving false information (                                127.00
5-4E-7)
Illegally following an emergency vehicle (                117.00
6-2-16)
Impaired driving                                          500.00
Improper dumping (                                        227.00
4-4-9)
Improper lane use (                                       87.00
6-4-1)
Improper parking                                          87.00
Improper passing on left in marked zone (                 87.00
6-4-9)
Improper passing on right (                               87.00
6-4-3)
Interfering with a police officer                         500.00
Leaving the scene of a property damage accident (6-2-4A)  500.00
Littering (                                               173.00
4-4-12)
Loud and/or profane language to officer                   127.00
Minor in possession (low point beer) (                    227.00
3-2A-7C)
Minor in possession (tobacco) (                            
5-5C-3):
 First offense                                           50.00
 Second offense                                          75.00
 Third offense                                           100.00
No driver's license in possession (                       63.00
6-2-2A1)
No valid driver's license (                               127.00
6-2-9)
Operating a motor vehicle in a manner not reasonable and
proper (                                                  227.00
6-4-19)
Operating a motor vehicle under unsafe conditions         87.00
Operating a motor vehicle without current tags (          97.00
6-2-2B)
Operating an unsafe motor vehicle (                       87.00
6-9-2)
Permitting an unsafe vehicle on roadway                   87.00
Petty larceny (                                           127.00
5-4B-1)
Possession of a controlled substance                      500.00
Possession of a firearm while intoxicated                 500.00
Possession of a prohibited weapon                         500.00
Possession of drug paraphernalia (                        500.00
5-4D-1D2b)
Possession of marijuana (                                 500.00
5-4D-1D2a)
Profanity in public (                                     127.00
5-4C-3)
Public drunkenness (                                      113.00
3-2A-8)
Public nuisance (                                         127.00
4-2-2)
Reckless driving (                                        500.00
6-4-16)
Resisting arrest (                                        500.00
5-4E-1A)
Sale of fireworks (                                       Not to exceed $400.00
5-6-1)
Social hosting                                            $500.00
Speeding, miles per hour over limit:                       
 1 – 10                                                50.00
 11 – 20                                               73.00
 21 – 30                                               125.00
 31 and over                                             200.00
Transporting open container:                               
 Beer                                                    167.00
 Liquor                                                  177.00
Violation of restriction                                  87.00
All other fines not listed                                127.00
 
   C.   Additional Costs: Effective July 1, 2010, any CLEET penalty, AFIS
penalty, FSIA (OSBI) penalty and court costs shall be in addition to the above
stated schedule of basic fines. Court costs are thirty dollars ($30.00) as
provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-126. (Ord. 695, 5-3-2010)
1-11-24: PENALTY ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "convicted" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (1990 Code §
6-134; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking or
standing violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an
offense, shall be ordered by the court to pay nine dollars ($9.00) as a
separate penalty assessment (CLEET) and five dollars ($5.00) as a separate
fingerprint fee (AFIS), which shall be in addition to, and not in substitution
for, any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided by law for such
offense. The court shall provide for separate bail for the penalty assessment.
A defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the
amount of the penalty assessment in the undertaking. (Ord. 695, 5-3-2010)
   C.   Administrative Fee: Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall
collect the penalty assessment and fingerprint fee and deposit it in an account
created for that purpose. As an administrative fee for handling funds collected
as a penalty assessment, the court is authorized to retain eight cents ($0.08)
per fee for penalty assessment and AFIS fees of such monies and may also retain
all interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for deposits as provided in
this subsection. The remainder of such monies shall be forwarded monthly by the
court clerk to the state treasury. Deposits shall be due the fifteenth of the
following month. (1990 Code § 6-134; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Forensic Science Improvement Assessment Fee: A forensic science
improvement assessment fee (OSBI) in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) shall
be collected at the same time and in the same manner as the penalty assessment
and the AFIS fees. The municipal court is authorized to retain five percent
(5%) of the amount collected as the administrative fee. (2004 Code)
TITLE 2
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Depositories Designated; Deposit Of Funds
2-1-2: Purchasing Procedure
2-1-3: Officers; Conflict Of Interest
2-1-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   A.   Use Of Designated Depositories: All banks and all savings and loan
associations which are incorporated under federal or state law, and other
institutions approved by the mayor and city council, may be designated as
depositories for the funds of the city. The city treasurer shall deposit daily
all public funds received by him in such banks or savings and loan
associations. (1990 Code § 7-101)
   B.   Funds Secured: The deposits of the city shall be secured in the manner
required by Oklahoma Statutes. (1990 Code § 7-102; amd. 2004 Code)
2-1-2: PURCHASING PROCEDURE:
All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the city government shall be made by
city purchasing officer in accordance with purchase authorizations issued by
the officer. (1990 Code § 7-104)
2-1-3: OFFICERS; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Materials Or Supplies: No member of the city council may sell, or
furnish for a consideration, any materials or supplies for use of the city; and
any member of the council voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to,
such contract or purchase is personally liable as provided by state law.
   B.   Contracts With Council Members: The city council shall not make any
contract with any of its members, or in which any of its members shall be
directly or indirectly interested, such contracts being prohibited by state
law.
   C.   Officers; Interest In Sale, Lease Or Contract: No officer of the city
may become directly or indirectly interested individually in any sale, lease,
or contract which he is authorized to make, such being prohibited by state law.
(1990 Code § 7-103)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
2-2A-1: Citation
2-2A-2: Definitions
2-2A-3: Tax Imposed; Effective Dates; Purposes
2-2A-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-2A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-2A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
2-2A-7: Tax Due Date
2-2A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
2-2A-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-2A-10: Collection By Vendors
2-2A-11: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
2-2A-12: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
2-2A-13: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
2-2A-14: Fraudulent Returns
2-2A-15: Records Confidential
2-2A-16: Amendments
2-2A-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-2A-1: CITATION:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF POTEAU SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (1990 Code § 7-201)
2-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state sales tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, and 37 Oklahoma Statutes sections 576
and 593, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1990
Code § 7-202)
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The definition of "gross receipts" in the state sales tax code
is hereby augmented to contain the additional following words: "The total
retail sale price received for the sale, preparation or service of mixed
beverages, ice and low point beer to be mixed with alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation or service occurs
shall constitute the gross receipts from such transaction".
STATE SALES TAX CODE: Reference to the "state sales tax code" shall mean such
code as set out in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., as amended.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city or the official agency of the state
duly designated according to law or contract, and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this article. (1990 Code §§ 7-
202, 7-203; amd. 2004 Code)
2-2A-3: TAX IMPOSED; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES:
The following city sales tax, in the total amount of three percent (3%), shall
be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of
the people. Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the registered
voters of the city voting on same in elections conducted in the manner
prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes:
Ordinance 224, effective March 1, 1966, levied the first one cent ($0.01) tax
to provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal
government of the city.
Ordinance 280, adopted June 1, 1971, levied the second one cent ($0.01) tax to
provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government
of the city.
Ordinance 402, effective October 1, 1983, levied a third one cent ($0.01) tax.
The purpose of this tax levy shall be to provide revenues for the making of
capital improvements to physical properties of the city, paying the costs and
expenses of general and special purposes of the municipal government of the
city, and the payment of the principal and interest on indebtedness incurred by
the city or any duly constituted authority thereof for any purpose.
(1990 Code § 7-201 ed. note, § 7-207)
2-2A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (1990 Code § 7-
205)
2-2A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state sales tax code.
(1990 Code § 7-204)
2-2A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2004 Code)
2-2A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be due and payable at
the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales
tax under the state sales tax code. (1990 Code § 7-215)
2-2A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax. (1990 Code § 7-216)
2-2A-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this article shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1990 Code
§ 7-217)
2-2A-10: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied under the provision of this article shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor
in the city to collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax
levied by this article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable
to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed under this article, or the average
equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied by this article, or wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or
remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by
whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any
form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he
is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this article shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 7-218)
2-2A-11: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected under the provisions of
this article shall be made to the tax collector at the time and in the manner,
form and amount as prescribed for returns and remittances of the tax collected
hereunder and shall be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the
state sales tax code for collection of state sales taxes. (1990 Code § 7-219)
2-2A-12: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes is
hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and interest or penalties at
the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall
be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied
under this article. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit
the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
article shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim
to any discount allowed under this article. (1990 Code § 7-220)
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax as levied under this article
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver as
applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 220. To accomplish the purposes of this subsection, the
applicable provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. (1990 Code § 7-221)
2-2A-13: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax levied may be made to any
taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (1990 Code § 7-
222)
2-2A-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 7-223)
2-2A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and
each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as if herein
set forth in full. (1990 Code § 7-224)
2-2A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the city council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city, as provided by law. (1990 Code § 7-225)
2-2A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (1990 Code § 7-
226)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Citation
2-2B-2: Definitions
2-2B-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
2-2B-4: Subsisting State Permits
2-2B-5: Purpose Of Revenues
2-2B-6: Tax Rate; Subjects Of Taxation
2-2B-7: Exemptions
2-2B-8: Tax Due; Returns; Payment
2-2B-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
2-2B-10: Collection Of Tax
2-2B-11: Revoking Permits
2-2B-12: Remunerative Deductions
2-2B-13: Delinquency; Interest And Penalties
2-2B-14: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
2-2B-15: Fraudulent Returns
2-2B-16: Records Confidential
2-2B-17: Provisions Cumulative
2-2B-1: CITATION:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF POTEAU USE TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this article. In addition thereto, as used in this article, the
following words and terms shall be defined as follows:
CITY: The city of Poteau, Oklahoma.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency of
the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are, for the purpose of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-
1992)
2-2B-5: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the city government, and any and all revenues
derived hereunder may be expended by the city council for any purpose for which
funds may be lawfully expended as authorized. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-
1992)
2-2B-6: TAX RATE; SUBJECTS OF TAXATION:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the city tangible personal property purchased or
brought into the city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other consuming
within the city of such property at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city, tangible personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city, and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible personal property intended solely for use outside the city, but which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily
retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or city sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (Ord. 474, 7-6-
1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting in the city for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the city.
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used.
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the city use tax ordinance, has been paid by the person using such
tangible personal property in the city, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If
any article of tangible personal property has already been subjected to a tax
by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use,
in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and
city use tax ordinance, the provision of this article shall also apply to it by
a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both the
Oklahoma use tax code and the city use tax ordinance, and the rate by which the
previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no credit shall
be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma or the city.
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the city, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons for the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the city. Provided, this exemption
shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and
is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation
under the sales tax code of the city. The term "manufacturing plants" shall
mean those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such.
   E.   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city.
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
city where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment.
   G.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property used
or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads.
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (Ord.
474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-8: TAX DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due under this article shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 474,
7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-10: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Retailer Or Vendor: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state, and making sales of tangible
personal property from a place of business outside this state for use in this
city, shall at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this
article from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the
manner and form prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission shall,
by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with
the tax commission the name and address of all his agents operating in the city
and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other
places of business in the city.
   B.   Place Of Business Not Maintained Within State Or Both Within And
Without State: The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in this city and by the out-of-state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible personal property at
such out-of-state place of business for use in this city. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the
tax commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as
it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer
or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his
knowledge for use within the city. Such authority and permit may be cancelled
when at any time the tax commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in the city.
Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are made or completed
by delivery to the purchaser within the city by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common
carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable
city sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and
reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Ord. 474, 7-6-
1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-11: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article, or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this article, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff.
7-6-1992)
2-2B-12: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for the collection of state use taxes. (Ord. 474, 7-
6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-13: DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: Section 217 of title 68 of the Oklahoma
Statutes is hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and interest and
penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are hereby
levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying
the tax levied by this article. Provided, that the failure or refusal of any
retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in
the time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed
under this article.
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner as
provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the state
use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish the
purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (Ord. 474, 7-6-
1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-14: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS, CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of section
227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (Ord. 474,
7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
article shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00), and costs. Each day of noncompliance with this article shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, of
the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
use tax as if herein set forth in full. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-6-1992)
2-2B-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (Ord. 474, 7-6-1992, eff. 7-
6-1992)
ARTICLE C. UTILITIES TAX
SECTION:
2-2C-1: Tax Levied; Application
2-2C-2: Tax In Lieu Of Other Taxes
2-2C-3: Payment Of Tax; General Fund
2-2C-4: Failure To Pay; Action For Collection
2-2C-5: Tax Constitutes Lien
2-2C-1: TAX LEVIED; APPLICATION:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the city. Such
tax shall apply to all persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in
the business of furnishing power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within
the city limits, except that it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the city nor
apply to utilities furnished by the city. (1990 Code § 7-401)
2-2C-2: TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES:
The tax levied by this article shall be in lieu of any other franchise,
license, occupation or excise tax levied by the city. (1990 Code § 7-402)
2-2C-3: PAYMENT OF TAX; GENERAL FUND:
The tax levied under this article shall be payable quarterly and placed in the
general revenue fund of the city. (1990 Code § 7-403)
2-2C-4: FAILURE TO PAY; ACTION FOR COLLECTION:
Any person failing or refusing to pay the tax levied by this article shall be
regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the city. In addition thereto,
an action may be maintained against such person for the amount of the tax and
all expenses of collecting same, including reasonable attorney fees. (1990 Code
§ 7-404)
2-2C-5: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The tax imposed by this article shall constitute a first and prior lien on all
the assets located within the city of any person engaged in the business of
selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the city and
subject to such tax. (1990 Code § 7-405)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Fee Levied
2-3-2: Fee In Lieu Of Other Fees, Taxes
2-3-1: FEE LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the city. The inspection fee and charge
shall be due and payable to the city on or before June 1 of each year, for the
calendar year ending December 31 preceding, and shall be paid into and
appropriated and expended from the general revenue fund of the city. (1990 Code
§ 7-301)
2-3-2: FEE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be, and
continue to be, in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise,
license, privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem
taxes. However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any
existing arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit,
duct space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the city. (1990 Code § 7-302)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE (911) TAX
(Rep. by Ord. 782, 1-6-2020)
CHAPTER 5
HOTEL TAX CODE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Citation
2-5-2: Definitions
2-5-3: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions
2-5-4: Records To Be Kept
2-5-5: Returns
2-5-6: Payment Of Tax
2-5-7: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
2-5-8: Refunds
2-5-9: Notices
2-5-10: Remedies Exclusive
2-5-11: Proceedings To Recover Tax
2-5-12: General Powers Of The City Council
2-5-13: Administration Of Oaths And Compelling Testimony
2-5-14: Licenses And Registration
2-5-15: Delinquent Taxes
2-5-16: Interest And Penalties
2-5-17: Confidential Records
2-5-18: Amendments
2-5-19: Provisions Cumulative
2-5-20: Use Of Hotel Tax Funds
2-5-21: Effective Date
2-5-22: Perpetuation Of Tax
2-5-1: CITATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the POTEAU HOTEL TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings given herein, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
CITY CLERK: The duly elected or appointed city clerk of the city of Poteau,
Oklahoma, or his/her designated representative.
HOTEL: Any building(s), trailer(s) or other facility(ies) of any kind in which
the public may for consideration obtain sleeping accommodations and in which
five (5) or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests,
regardless of whether such rooms are in one or several buildings, structures,
trailers, or facilities. The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels,
motels, tourist homes, houses or courts of any kind or nature, lodging houses,
inns, bed and breakfast inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, RV parks, trailer
motels, corporate lodgings, resorts, dormitory space where bed space is rented
to individuals or groups, apartments not occupied by "permanent residents", as
that term is hereinafter defined, and all other facilities where rooms or
sleeping facilities or space is furnished for a consideration. As defined
herein, "hotel" shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing homes.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed mayor of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, or
his/her designated representative.
OCCUPANCY: The use, possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms in a hotel.
OCCUPANT: A person who for a consideration uses, possesses, or has the right to
the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, other agreement, or
otherwise.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel in this city, including, but not limited
to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who has or shall have the right of occupancy
of any room(s) in the same hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days
during the current calendar year or preceding year.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, society, association, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, receiver, trustee, assignee, referee or any other person
acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, whether appointed by a court
or otherwise, or any combination of the above acting as a unit.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction(s)
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Shall include any return filed or required to be filed as herein
provided.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for, let for the use of, or possessed for the purpose of lodging or
sleeping. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%) upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from the rent from every occupancy of
a room or rooms in a hotel in this city, except that the tax shall not be
imposed where the rent is less than at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per
day. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any other
arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such tax at
the sales value of the room so provided (with "sales value" to mean the price
at which the room would be rented to the operator's best customer in the
ordinary course of business).
   B.   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident.
   C.   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon the United States insofar as it
is immune from taxation, the state of Oklahoma, or any municipality or other
political subdivision of the state.
   D.   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from the
rent and shall be shown separately on any record thereof at the time when the
occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of
occupancy or any bill, statement or charge made for such occupancy issued or
delivered by the operator. The tax shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator as trustee for and on account of the city, and the operator shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for the payment of the tax. The operator
and any officer of any corporate operator shall be personally liable for the
tax collected or required to be collected under this title, and the operator
shall have the same right in respect to collecting the tax from the occupant or
in respect to nonpayment of the tax by the occupant as if the tax were a part
of the rent for the occupancy payable at the same time such tax shall become
due and owing, including all rights of eviction, dispossession, repossession
and enforcement of any innkeeper's lien that he may have in the event of
nonpayment of rent by the occupant; provided, however, that the city of Poteau
shall be joined as a party in any action or proceeding brought by the operator
to collect or enforce collection of the tax.
   E.   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claim of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
   F.   Where the occupant has failed to pay and the operator has failed to
collect a tax as imposed by this chapter, then, in addition to all other
rights, obligations and remedies provided, such tax shall be payable by the
occupant directly to the city, and it shall be the duty of the occupant to file
a return thereof with the city clerk and to pay the tax imposed thereon to the
city clerk, within fifteen (15) days after such tax was due.
   G.   The city council may, whenever it deems it necessary for the proper
enforcement of this chapter, provide by regulation that the occupant shall file
returns and pay directly to the city clerk the tax herein imposed at such times
as returns are required to be filed and payment made by the operator.
   H.   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid upon any occupancy on or
after July 1, 2012, although such occupancy is had pursuant to a contract,
lease or other arrangement made prior to July 1, 2012. Where rent is paid,
charged, billed or falls due on either weekly or other term basis, the rent so
paid, charged, billed or falling due shall be subject to the tax herein imposed
to the extent that it covers any portion of the period after July 1, 2012, and
such payment, bill, charge or rent due shall be apportioned on the basis of the
ratio of the number of days falling within such portion to the total number of
days covered thereby. Where any tax has been paid hereunder upon any rent which
has been ascertained to be worthless, the city council may, by regulation,
provide for credit or refund of the amount of such tax upon application as
provided herein.
   I.   For the purpose of the proper administration of this chapter, and to
prevent evasion of the tax hereby imposed, it shall be presumed that all
rentals are subject to the tax until facts to the contrary are established; and
the burden of providing that a rent for occupancy is not taxable hereunder
shall be upon the operator or the occupant.
   J.   No operator shall advertise or hold out to the public in any manner,
directly or indirectly, that the tax imposed by this chapter is not considered
as an element in the rent charged to the occupant. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-4: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the city
may by regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the mayor, the city clerk, or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a period
of three (3) years. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-5: RETURNS:
   A.   Every operator, on or before the last day of each month, shall file
with the city clerk a return of occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable
thereon for the preceding calendar month. The date of filing shall be the date
of delivery to the city clerk.
   B.   The city clerk may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he/she may specify. The form of return
shall be prescribed by the city clerk and shall contain such information as he/
she may deem necessary for the proper administration of this code. The city
clerk may require amended returns to be filed within twenty (20) days after
notice, containing the information specified in the notice.
   C.   If a return required by this chapter is not filed or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient on its face, the city clerk shall take the
necessary steps to enforce the filing of a return or an amended return. (Ord.
722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-6: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the city the taxes imposed upon the rents included in such return, as
well as all other monies collected by the operator acting or purporting to act
under the provisions of this chapter. All taxes for the period for which a
return is required shall be due and payable on or before the date fixed for the
filing of the return for such period, without regard to whether a return is
filed or whether the return correctly filed shows the amount of rents and the
taxes due. If any operator has twice failed to pay taxes on or before the date
fixed for payment of such taxes or if any operator refuses to pay the taxes or
if the city clerk has reasonable grounds for belief that any operator is about
to cease business or leave the state or remove or dissipate assets, or if, for
any similar reason he/she deems it necessary to protect revenues due hereunder,
the city clerk may require an operator to file with the city either a
performance and payment bond, as detailed herein, or in lieu of this bond, an
escrow account or an irrevocable letter of credit as detailed herein. Should
the operator not submit either a performance and payment bond, an escrow
account or an irrevocable letter of credit within fifteen (15) days of notice
to do so, the city council may conduct a hearing to suspend or revoke the
license pursuant to the ordinances of the city of Poteau. The performance bond,
irrevocable letter of credit or escrow account shall be provided as follows:
   A.   A performance and payment bond in a form acceptable to the city, naming
the operator as obligee thereof, executed by a surety acceptable to the city
and authorized to do business in the state of Oklahoma, in a sum equal to the
citywide average daily room rental rate, to be ascertained by the city clerk,
times the number of rooms available for rent within the hotel multiplied by a
factor of thirty (30), times five percent (5%); or
   B.   An irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the city,
executed by the operator and a federally insured financial institution
acceptable to the city, providing for a sum equal to the citywide average daily
room rental rate, to be ascertained by the city clerk, times the number of
rooms available for rent within the hotel multiplied by a factor of thirty
(30), times five percent (5%); or
   C.   An escrow account held by the city in a sum equal to the citywide
average daily room rental rate, to be ascertained by the city clerk, times the
number of rooms available for rent within the hotel multiplied by a factor of
thirty (30), times five percent (5%). (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-7: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the city
clerk from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may
be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax, unless the person against whom it is assessed, within ten (10) days after
the giving of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the city council of
the city of Poteau for a hearing, or unless the mayor, at his/her discretion,
shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the city council of the city of
Poteau shall give written notice of its determination to the person against
whom the tax is assessed. If the taxes and interest due are not paid within ten
(10) days of assessment or reassessment by the mayor or determination by the
city council, in addition to the taxes and interest, the operator shall pay a
penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the taxes due. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-8: REFUNDS:
   A.   In the manner provided in this section, the city clerk shall refund or
credit any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the city clerk for such refund shall be made within one
year from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same period,
a refund may be so made upon the initiative and the order of the city clerk.
Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing.
Such application may be made by the person upon whom such tax was imposed and
who has actually paid the tax. Such application may also be made by the person
who has collected and paid such tax to the city, provided that the application
is made within one year of the payment by the occupant to the operator; but no
refund of money shall be made to the operator until he/she shall first
establish to the satisfaction of the city clerk, under such regulations as the
city clerk may prescribe, that he/she has repaid to the occupant the amount for
which the application for refund is made. The city clerk, in lieu of any refund
required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payments due from the
applicant.
   B.   An application for a refund or credit made, as herein provided, shall
be deemed an application for a revision of any tax, penalty or interest
complained of, and the city clerk may receive evidence with respect thereto.
After making his/her determination, the city clerk shall give notice thereof to
the applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the applicant, within
ten (10) days after such notice of determination, shall apply in writing to the
city council for a hearing. After such hearing, the city council shall give
written notice of its determination to the applicant.
   C.   A person shall not be entitled to revision, refund or credit of a tax
under this section if he/she has had a hearing or an opportunity for a hearing
as provided in this chapter and has failed to avail himself/herself of the
remedies therein provided. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-9: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
such notices have been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail to the last known address of the operator. (Ord. 722, 2-1-
2012)
2-5-10: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided by sections
2-5-7 and
2-5-8 of this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available to any person for
the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-11: PROCEEDINGS TO RECOVER TAX:
   A.   Civil Remedies:
      1.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to
collect and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed
by this chapter as herein provided, the mayor may authorize the city clerk to
file notice of liens on behalf of the city of Poteau against the real estate
upon which the hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property and
rights to property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or thereafter
acquired by the person owing the tax pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 2011,
sections 2701 and 2704.
      2.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/
or personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether
such property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under
the authority of an assignee, trustee or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by 68 Oklahoma
Statutes, 2011, section 2704.
      3.   The city clerk shall notify the person owing the tax by personal
service or by certified mail that the city of Poteau will file such liens if
any delinquent lodging taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within
fifteen (15) days of receiving such notice.
      4.   The mayor may also authorize the city attorney to institute an
action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
lodging taxes, penalties and/or interest.
   B.   Criminal Penalties:
      1.   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the
wilful failure or refusal of any operator, occupant or other person to make
reports and/or remittances as herein required or the making of any false and
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under this chapter shall be an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, the offending operator, occupant or other person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00),
excluding costs, and/or by imprisonment for a period of not more than thirty
(30) days. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-12: GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
In addition to all other powers granted to the city council, the city council
is hereby authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to carrying
out the provisions of this chapter for the purposes thereof;
   B.   To extend, for cause shown, the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate the functions hereunder to the mayor, the city clerk, or
other employee or employees of the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this chapter; and
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-13: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND COMPELLING TESTIMONY:
   A.   The city clerk, or employees or agents of the city duly designated and
authorized by him/her, or the city council, shall have the power to administer
oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in the
exercise of the powers and duties under this chapter. The city clerk shall have
the power to subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to
the performance of his/her duties hereunder and of the enforcement of this
chapter, and to examine them in relation thereto.
   B.   Any person who shall refuse to testify or to produce books or records,
or who shall testify falsely in any material matter pending before the city
clerk, or employees or agents of the city duly designated and authorized by
him/her, or of the city council shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a
fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), excluding costs,
and/or by imprisonment for a period of not more than thirty (30) days. (Ord.
722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-14: LICENSES AND REGISTRATION:
Every new operator shall file, within three (3) days of engaging in the hotel
business, an application for license and registration pursuant to the Poteau
city ordinances. The city clerk shall, within five (5) days after such
registration, issue to each operator a license empowering such operator to
collect the tax from the occupant. Such license shall be permanently displayed
by the operator in such manner that it may be seen by and may come to the
notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such license shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
city clerk upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its sale
or transfer. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-15: DELINQUENT TAXES:
At the time of filing the returns required under this chapter with the city
clerk, the operator shall remit therewith to the city clerk, the tax due under
the provisions of this chapter. If the filing of the return and remittance of
the taxes due are received by the city clerk after the last day of the month,
the taxes are then delinquent and the operator shall pay, in addition to one
hundred percent (100%) of the taxes due, interest and penalties as prescribed
in subsection 2-5-16A of this chapter. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-16: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If an operator fails to file a return or remit the taxes due prior to
the last day of the month, the operator shall pay, in addition to one hundred
percent (100%) of the taxes due, the following interest and penalties:
      1.   One and one-half percent (11/2%) interest per month on the total
amount of taxes due from the last day of the month to the date of filing; and
      2.   A penalty of ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the taxes due.
   B.   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the following persons
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by imprisonment for a period of not more than thirty (30) days and/or by a fine
of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), excluding costs:
      1.   Any operator or occupant who wilfully fails to file a return as
required by this chapter, or who files or causes to be filed, or makes or
causes to be made, or causes to be given any return, certificate, affidavit,
representation, information, testimony or statement required or authorized by
this chapter which is wilfully false;
      2.   Any operator who wilfully fails to file a bond required by this
chapter or who wilfully fails to file a registration certificate and such data
in connection therewith as the city clerk may require, by regulation or
otherwise, or who fails to display or surrender the license as required by this
chapter, or who assigns or transfers such license;
      3.   Any operator who wilfully fails to charge separately from the rent
the tax herein imposed, or who wilfully fails to state such tax separately on
any evidence of occupancy and on any bill, statement or receipt of rent issued
or employed by the operator, or who wilfully fails or refuses to collect tax
from the occupant;
      4.   Any operator who wilfully refers or causes reference to be made to
this tax in a form or manner other than that required by this chapter; and
      5.   Any operator who wilfully fails to keep the records required by this
chapter.
   C.   The affidavit of the city clerk to the effect that a tax has not been
paid, that a return, bond or registration certificate has not been filed, or
that information has not been supplied pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be presumptive evidence thereof. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-17: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of this tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and to
protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes, 2011, section 205,
and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to administration of this tax as if they were herein
set forth in full. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-18: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, shall by their approval of this
chapter at the election hereinafter provided, authorize the city council of the
city of Poteau, Oklahoma, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such changes or
additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing this chapter
as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate
of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the
qualified voters of the city of Poteau as herein provided. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-19: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the city of Poteau. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-20: USE OF HOTEL TAX FUNDS:
All hotel tax revenues collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be set aside and used exclusively for the following purposes and no
others:
   A.   The first two percent (2%) of all taxes levied and collected pursuant
to this chapter shall be deposited into the general fund of the city of Poteau
and shall be available to pay expenses incurred by the city of Poteau in the
enforcement of this chapter. "Enforcement", as used in this chapter, shall
include expenses incurred in monitoring the collection, expenditure and
auditing of the hotel tax.
   B.   There is hereby established a special fund to be known as the hotel tax
fund of the city of Poteau. Ninety eight percent (98%) of all taxes levied and
collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into the fund. This fund
shall be used and expended by the city of Poteau, subject to budget review and
approval by the city council; provided, however, that actual disbursements
shall be made only by warrants drawn, approved and executed as required for
other disbursements by the city, as follows:
      1.   To adopt plans, policies and programs to encourage family
recreation, fitness, health and fun within and around the city of Poteau;
      2.   To construct, reconstruct, upkeep, operate, maintain and repair
building and facilities including, but not limited to, sports fields,
playgrounds, tennis courts, trails, fitness facilities, gymnasiums, skateparks,
picnic shelters, picnic areas, swimming pools, splash pads and similar water
activities, performing arts facilities, and other park and recreation
facilities of whatever kind and nature;
      3.   The promotion of the city of Poteau as a place where recreation,
fitness, health and fun is encouraged;
      4.   To foster and encourage recreation, fitness, health and fun events,
activities, and locations within and around the city of Poteau to promote
healthy living;
      5.   To adopt plans, policies and programs to encourage the economic
development of the city as a convention and tourist center;
      6.   To construct, reconstruct, operate, maintain and repair buildings
and facilities to encourage the economic development of the city of Poteau and
to foster the development of the city as a convention and tourist center, and
to acquire land in connection therewith; and
      7.   To promote events, civic functions, cultural events and activities
in and around the Poteau economic region. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-21: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective on and after July 1, 2012, subject to
approval of a majority of the registered voters of the city of Poteau,
Oklahoma, voting on same in manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes, 2011,
sections 16-101 and 16-112. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
2-5-22: PERPETUATION OF TAX:
In the event the provisions of this chapter relating to the parks and
recreation fund or the tourism, convention and promotion fund be declared
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the tax levied pursuant to this
chapter shall continue to be levied and collected for general revenue purposes;
and it is specifically declared to be the intention of the governing body of
the city of Poteau that the tax is to be levied and collected, notwithstanding
the invalidity of any other section of this chapter. (Ord. 722, 2-1-2012)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND FEES
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Fee; State Sales Tax Permit
3-1-2: Separate Licenses Required
3-1-3: Display Of License
3-1-4: License Nontransferable
3-1-5: Duplicate License
3-1-6: Issuance And Execution
3-1-7: Expiration
3-1-8: Compliance With State And Local Regulations
3-1-9: Revocation Of License
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; STATE SALES TAX PERMIT:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise
or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation, privilege or other
activity for which a license is required or a license fee or tax is levied by
any provision of this code or other ordinance of the city without paying the
license fee or tax and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
   B.   Fee Schedule: A license fee is levied on every person engaging in,
exercising, or pursuing any of the businesses, professions, trades,
occupations, or privileges in the city, as may be provided by the city council.
A copy of the fee schedule adopted for licenses shall be kept on file in the
office of the city clerk.
   C.   State Sales Tax Permit Required: In order to receive a license under
this chapter, every person, firm or corporation regulated pursuant to this
section is required to possess a valid and current state sales tax permit if
such person, firm or corporation is a vendor subject to collection of sales
taxes under the sales tax code of the city and state. A copy of this permit
shall be provided by the applicant for a license to the city clerk prior to
issuance of the city license. (1990 Code § 9-101)
3-1-2: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the city, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall pay
the fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege. (1990 Code § 9-102)
3-1-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Display On Premises Or Carry License: Every holder of a license to
engage in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation, or
privilege shall conspicuously display the license at all times in some part of
his place of business or activity where a person who has entered the place may
readily see it; or, if he has no particular place of business or activity,
shall carry the license and shall display it to any person who requests to see
it.
   B.   Attaching To Machine Or Device: In lieu of the manner of displaying
such licenses provided above, when licenses are required for coin operated
music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible, and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face.
   C.   Refusal To Display Unlawful: It is unlawful to fail or refuse to
display the license as required in this section. (1990 Code § 9-103)
3-1-4: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the city.
(1990 Code § 9-105)
3-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance Of Duplicate: Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or
pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, has been lost
or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the city
clerk, on application therefor, shall issue a duplicate license for the
unexpired time.
   B.   Affidavit Required: Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall
make, and file with the city clerk, an affidavit that the licensee has in fact
lost or destroyed the license without any wrongful act or connivance by the
licensee. (1990 Code § 9-106)
3-1-6: ISSUANCE AND EXECUTION:
The city clerk shall issue a license required by this code or other ordinance
when the applicant has filed a proper application therefor, paid the required
tax or fee, and complied with all other requirements prescribed for obtaining
such license. Each such license so issued shall be signed by the mayor and city
clerk and the corporate seal of the city shall be affixed thereto. Such license
shall be in suitable form and express the purpose for which it is issued. (1990
Code § 9-107)
3-1-7: EXPIRATION:
Each annual license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
April 30 of the year for which it was issued. (1990 Code § 9-108)
3-1-8: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS:
All licenses shall be issued subject to the ordinances of the city and the laws
of the state. No license shall be construed as authority to do or omit to do
any act in violation of law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 9-109)
3-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued by the city to any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue
any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege may be revoked by the
city council after adequate opportunity for a hearing. (1990 Code § 9-104)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions Pursuant To State Statute
3-2-2: Occupation Tax Levied
3-2-3: Payment Of City Tax By State Licensee
3-2-4: Annual Report To State
3-2-5: Certificates Required
3-2-6: Retail Package Stores
3-2-7: Dates, Hours Sale Prohibited
3-2-8: Prohibited Sales; Minors And Others
3-2-9: Transporting Beverages
3-2-10: Employment Of Minors; Loitering Prohibited
3-2-11: Intoxicated Persons In Cafe Or Club Prohibited
3-2-12: Consumption And Intoxication In Public Place
3-2-13: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS PURSUANT TO STATE STATUTE:
Words, phrases, and terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings
prescribed by, and be construed in conformity with, the definitions of the same
set forth in the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A Oklahoma Statutes
1-103, et seq., with the same force and effect as if the definitions were set
forth in full in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning or construction. (Ord. 760, 9-20-2018)
3-2-2: OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED:
   A.   Annual Tax: An annual Occupation Tax may be levied on persons engaging
in the following businesses or occupations within the City in the amounts
respectively indicated:
1.  Brewer                                     $1,250.00
2.  Small brewer                               125.00
3.  Brew pub                                   1,005.00
4.  Retail beer                                500.00
5.  Retail wine                                1,000.00
6.  Distiller                                  3,125.00
7.  Winemaker                                  625.00
8.  Oklahoma winemaker                         75.00
9.  Rectifier                                  3,125.00
10. Wholesaler                                 3,500.00
11. Class B wholesaler                         625.00
12. Retail package store                       905.00
13. Bottle club:                                
    Initial                                  1,005.00
    Renewal                                  905.00
14. Mixed beverage license                     1,005.00
15. Mixed beverage/caterer combination license 1,250.00
16. On premises beer and wine license          500.00
17. Caterer license                            1,005.00
18. Public event license                       225.00
19. Charitable event license                   55.00
 
(Ord. 767, 4-1-2019)
   B.   Service Organizations Exempt From Bottle Club License: The Occupation
Tax for those service organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19)
of the Internal Revenue Code for bottle club licenses shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per year. (1990 Code § 3-102)
   C.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler; Tax Reduction: If a brewer or a Class B
wholesaler also holds a license from the State to manufacture or wholesale any
low point beer, then the Occupation Tax for such brewer or Class B wholesaler
shall be reduced by seventy five percent (75%). (1990 Code § 3-102; amd. 2004
Code)
3-2-3: PAYMENT OF CITY TAX BY STATE LICENSEE:
   A.   Payment Of Tax; Expiration Date: Any State licensee originally entering
upon any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the Office of
the City Clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation.
The licensee shall provide a copy of his current state license before payment
of an occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the
tax annually on or before April 1.
   B.   Proration Of Tax: The occupation tax subject to this chapter shall be
prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations. Taxes paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on
the basis of the first day of the month; taxes paid after the fifteenth day of
the month shall be on the basis of the first day of the next succeeding month.
   C.   Issuance And Posting Of City Receipt: Upon payment of the occupation
tax, the city clerk shall issue a receipt to the state licensee, which the
licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries
on his occupation.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who engages in any of the occupations
taxed by this chapter without paying the occupation tax imposed therefor in
advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 3-103)
3-2-4: ANNUAL REPORT TO STATE:
The city clerk shall make an annual report to the alcoholic beverage laws
enforcement (ABLE) commission, covering the fiscal year, showing the number of
licensees subject to the occupation tax and the amount of monies collected from
the tax. (1990 Code § 3-104)
3-2-5: CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Application For Certificate; Investigation:
      1.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning,
fire, health and safety codes of the city required by title 37 of the Oklahoma
Statutes shall apply at the office of the clerk by:
         a.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
         b.   Paying a verification and certification fee in such amount as set
by the city council at the time of filing.
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
mayor shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance and any health, fire, building and other safety codes applicable to
it.
      3.   The city shall act on all such applications within twenty (20) days
of receipt thereof. (1990 Code § 3-105)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificates:
      1.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning
shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      2.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is
in compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate
of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
      3.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the mayor or
by the president of the city council.
      4.   A conditional certificate may be granted if construction,
modification or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is
not completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with city zoning, fire, safety and health codes. A
certificate in accordance with subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall be
issued within ten (10) days after all final inspections are complete. (1990
Code § 3-106)
3-2-6: RETAIL PACKAGE STORES:
   A.   Location:
      1.   No retail package store or any other business licensed by this
chapter shall be located or operated at any place, except at locations
permitted by the city's zoning or planning laws. (1990 Code § 3-107)
      2.   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within three hundred feet (300') from any church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities, or a public
school. However, if any such church or school shall be established within three
hundred feet (300') of any licensed retail premises after such premises has
been licensed, this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long
as it has been in continuous force and effect. The distance indicated in this
section shall be measured from the nearest property line of such public or
private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any
such package store. For the purpose of determining the measured distance,
property situated on the opposite side of the street from such church or school
shall be considered as if it were located on the same side of the street with
such church or school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any
block where a school or church is located. (Ord. 692, 12-1-2008)
   B.   Conditions Of Sale:
      1.   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages out of any
retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
         a.   In retail containers;
         b.   At ordinary room temperatures;
         c.   In the original package; and
         d.   For consumption off the premises.
      2.   No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened
on the premises of such a store. (1990 Code § 3-108)
   C.   Consumption On Premises Prohibited: No person shall drink or consume in
any manner any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic
beverage package store; neither shall a person open or break the seal of any
original package or retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the
premises of any such retail beverage store. (1990 Code § 3-109)
   D.   Separate Premises Required:
      1.   No person shall maintain, operate, or assist, in any manner, the
maintenance or operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store or package store
in premises which are not separated from adjoining premises on which any other
goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or services are rendered by
nontransparent walls, broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the
public is not admitted.
      2.   No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway
described in this section, for the purpose of selling or reselling such
beverage, or for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of
such beverage. (1990 Code § 3-115)
3-2-7: DATES, HOURS SALE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Retail Sales: No person shall open for business or keep open for
business or sell or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person at a retail
alcoholic beverage store in the city on any Sunday, New Year's Day, Memorial
Day, Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas
Day, or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff
primary or special election, whether national, state, county, or city, or any
other day, except between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   B.   Wholesale Dealers: No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no
officer, agent or employee of such a dealer shall sell or deliver to any retail
alcoholic beverage store within the city any amount of spirits or wines on
Saturday of any week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year's Day, on Memorial
Day, on the Fourth Of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day,
on Christmas Day, or, while the polls are open on the day of any general,
primary, runoff primary, or special election, whether national, state, county
or city. (1990 Code § 3-113)
3-2-8: PROHIBITED SALES; MINORS AND OTHERS:
   A.   Sale To Minor; Misrepresentation Of Age: No person shall knowingly
sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages, at any place within the city
limits, to any person who is a minor. Neither shall any minor misrepresent his
age verbally or in writing, or present false documentation of age or otherwise
for the purpose of inducing any other person to sell him alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Possession In Public Streets, Public Places: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to be in possession of any
alcoholic beverage while such person is upon any public street, road or
highway, or in any public building or public place.
   C.   Furnish To Intoxicated Or Mentally Deficient Persons: No person shall
sell, deliver or knowingly furnish alcoholic beverages within the city to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient. (1990 Code § 3-110)
3-2-9: TRANSPORTING BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful to transport any alcoholic beverage, unless the same is:
   A.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken, and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   B.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or container out of public
view and out of reach of and not accessible to the driver or any occupant of a
vehicle. (1990 Code § 3-111)
3-2-10: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS; LOITERING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture, distribution or
other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the city.
   B.   No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of
any minor at any place within the city in the sale, manufacture, distribution
or other handling of alcoholic beverages.
   C.   No minor shall be permitted to remain within or to loiter about the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store.
   D.   Violation of this provision shall subject the owner or proprietor, as
well as the underage person, to prosecution. (1990 Code § 3-112)
3-2-11: INTOXICATED PERSONS IN CAFE OR CLUB PROHIBITED:
No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within
the city, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of such a
cafe, restaurant, club or place of recreation, shall permit any person to be
drunk or intoxicated in the place of business. (1990 Code § 3-114)
3-2-12: CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC PLACE:
No person within the city shall drink intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage
in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place
within the city, nor shall any owner, operator or manager of any business or
public place to which the public is generally invited allow an intoxicated
person to remain in or upon the premises. (1990 Code § 3-116)
3-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 3-117)
ARTICLE A. LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: License Required
3-2A-3: License Tax And Fee Levied
3-2A-4: Compliance With Law; License Nontransferable
3-2A-5: Hours Of Sale
3-2A-6: Prohibited Location
3-2A-7: Underage Persons, Restrictions
3-2A-8: Intoxicated Persons Prohibited
3-2A-9: Underage Persons Drinking In Public
3-2A-10: Transporting Open Container
3-2A-11: Revocation Of License
3-2A-12: Penalties; Juvenile Proceedings
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
LOW POINT BEER: All beverages containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%)
alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt beverages
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain,
malt or similar products.
MINOR: A person who has not yet attained the age at which a person is permitted
to consume low point beer under state law.
RETAIL DEALER: Any person, firm, corporation, association, or concessionaire
who sells, distributes, or dispenses at retail, any low point beer within the
corporate limits of the city, without regard as to any place where such
beverages may be consumed or used. (1990 Code § 3-201; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, to sell,
distribute, or dispense any low point beer without having first received a city
license as herein required. (1990 Code § 3-202; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-3: LICENSE TAX AND FEE LEVIED:
   A.   Fees Levied: There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in low
point beer for consumption on or off the premises an annual occupation tax of
twenty dollars ($20.00), and an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for
sale of low point beer which is in the original package and is not for
consumption on the premises. (1990 Code § 3-203; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Payment To Clerk: All such city license fees taxed shall be paid to the
city clerk at the time of issuance of license and in the manner prescribed
herein.
   C.   Expiration Of License; Proration Of Fee:
      1.   All licenses under the provisions of this article shall expire
annually on April 30.
      2.   The amount of any license fee levied shall be computed pro rata from
the months remaining in the year. Such fees paid on or before the fifteenth day
of any month shall be on the basis of the first day of the month and such fees
paid after the fifteenth day of the month shall be on the basis of the first
day of the next succeeding month. (1990 Code § 3-203)
3-2A-4: COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Compliance Required: No City license shall be issued to any retail
dealer by the City Clerk without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has
obtained all State and County permits required by law, and has in all other
respects complied with the State and local alcoholic beverage control
requirements.
   B.   License Nontransferable: No license shall be transferable. (1990 Code §
3-204)
3-2A-5: HOURS OF SALE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell an alcoholic
beverage for consumption on the premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday or between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on any other day. (Ord. 760,
9-20-2018)
3-2A-6: PROHIBITED LOCATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any place which has as its main purpose the sale of
alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption to be located within three
hundred feet (300') from any public school or church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities. (Ord. 760, 9-20-
2018)
   B.   If any public school or church shall be established within three
hundred feet (300') of any place which sells low point beer for on premises
consumption after such place has been licensed, this shall not be a deterrent
to the renewal of such license so long as there has not been a lapse of more
than sixty (60) days. (1990 Code § 3-206; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any place licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages for on premises consumption. For the purpose of determining the
measured distance, property situated on the opposite side of the street from
such church or school shall be considered as if it were located on the same
side of the street with such church or school. (Ord. 760, 9-20-2018)
   D.   The above restrictions shall not affect premises already licensed as of
the initial effective date of this section to sell low point beer for on
premises consumption or premises which may presently or in the future be
licensed to sell low point beer for on premises consumption even though a
school or church is subsequently established within three hundred feet (300')
of such licensed premises. (1990 Code § 3-206; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-7: UNDERAGE PERSONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sale To, Or Purchase By: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or otherwise
dispense to any minor any low point beer; or for any minor to purchase, receive
or procure any low point beer. (1990 Code § 3-207; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Employment:
      1.   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, operator or employee of a
place where low point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to employ a
person under eighteen (18) years of age to work in such place, or for any
person under eighteen (18) years of age to work in such place. This subsection
B1 shall not apply to any licensed premises where sales of low point beer do
not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross sales of the licensee. A
parent, in regard to employment of his own child or children, is exempted from
this subsection B1 so long as such employment in no way relates to sale or
dispensing of low point beer.
      2.   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work in
any capacity whatsoever in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place where
the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low point beer. This
subsection B2 shall not apply to any area which has as its main purpose some
objective other than the sale or serving of low point beer, in which sales or
serving of low point beer are incidental to the main purpose. (1990 Code § 3-
208; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Possession Prohibited: It is unlawful and an offense for any minor to
be in possession of any low point beer while such person is on any public
street, road or highway, or in any public building or place. (1990 Code § 3-
209; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Allowing In Bar Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   The owner of any bar, beer hall, tavern, or other place wherein any
low point beer is dispensed for consumption on the premises shall not permit
any minor to be admitted to, enter or to remain in, a separate enclosed bar
area of the licensed premises which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of low point beer for consumption on the premises unless the person's
legal guardian or parent is present, nor shall any minor enter or remain about
such separate or enclosed bar area.
      2.   This subsection shall not prohibit minors from being admitted to,
entering or remaining in, an area which has as its main purpose some objective
other than the sale or serving of low point beer, in which sales or serving of
low point beer is incidental to the main purpose, if the minors are not sold or
served or do not consume low point beer. (1990 Code § 3-210; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-8: INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of a place where low point
beer is sold for consumption on the premises to sell or otherwise furnish such
beverages to an intoxicated person or to permit an intoxicated person to remain
or be therein. (1990 Code § 3-211; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-9: UNDERAGE PERSONS DRINKING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any minor to drink any low point beer while such person is
upon any public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public
building or other public place within the city. However, this section shall not
apply when a minor is under the direct supervision of his parent or guardian.
This section shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking such
beverage in a place licensed to sell such beverage for consumption on the
premises. (1990 Code § 3-212; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-10: TRANSPORTING OPEN CONTAINER:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "low point beer" shall be
as defined in section
3-2A-1 of this article.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in
any moving vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any low point beer
except in the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the opened
container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or
compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or
panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (1990 Code §
3-214; amd. 2004 Code)
3-2A-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council shall have power, after public hearing, to revoke any license
granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license holder.
(1990 Code § 3-205)
3-2A-12: PENALTIES; JUVENILE PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating any provision of this article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   License Revocation Authorized: The violation by any person of the
provisions of subsections 3-2A-7A and B of this article, or any law pertaining
to the sale of low point beer, shall be sufficient grounds for revocation by
the judge of the district court of any permit held by such person authorizing
the sale of low point beer. No new permit shall be issued to such person or to
a relative of such person for a period of twelve (12) months after revocation
as provided by law.
   C.   Juvenile Proceedings: A violation of the provisions of section
3-2A-9 of this article shall not be a basis for instituting juvenile
proceedings to determine if a person under eighteen (18) years is a delinquent
child; however, if a person under eighteen (18) years of age habitually
violates the provisions of said section, juvenile proceedings may be brought to
determine if the person is a delinquent child. A person under eighteen (18)
years of age who has been convicted of violating the provisions of said section
shall be subject to the penalty provisions as provided in subsection A of this
section. (1990 Code § 3-215; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Amusement Rides; Bond Or Insurance Required
3-3-1: AMUSEMENT RIDES; BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate, manage or sponsor any ferris wheel, merry go
round or other amusement ride operated for hire or for the purpose of promoting
or advertising any trade or business, without first filing with the city clerk
a bond or certificate of liability insurance, in the amount of at least one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), indemnifying the public against damages
sustained by reason of the operation of such ride. Such bond or certificate of
insurance shall apply to all persons, whether or not a license or permit is
required by any other provision of this code, state law or city ordinance, rule
or regulation. (1990 Code § 9-301)
CHAPTER 4
ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Burden On Interstate Commerce; Hearing
3-4-3: License Required; Fee
3-4-4: Application For License; Bond
3-4-5: License Nontransferable
3-4-6: Private Residences; Invitation Required; Exceptions
3-4-7: Prohibited Hours Of Sales
3-4-8: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Means and includes all persons, firms or corporations, as
well as their agents and employees who engage in the temporary or transient
business in the city of selling or offering for sale any goods or merchandise,
or exhibiting the same for sale or exhibiting the same for the purpose of
taking orders for the sale thereof and who, for the purpose of carrying on such
business or conducting such exhibits thereof, either hire, rent, lease or
occupy any room or space in any building, structure, other enclosure, vacant
lot or any other property whatever in the city in, through, or from which any
goods or merchandise may be sold, offered for sale, exhibited for sale or
exhibited for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof.
TEMPORARY: Any such business transacted or conducted in the city for which
definite arrangements have not been made for the hire, rental or lease of
premises for at least one hundred (100) days, in or upon which such business is
to be operated or conducted.
TRANSIENT: Any such business of any such itinerant vendor as may be operated or
conducted by persons, firms or corporations, or by their agents or employees
who reside away from the city or who have fixed places of business in places
other than the city or who move stocks of goods or merchandise or samples
thereof into the city with the purpose or intention of removing them, or the
unsold portion thereof, away from the city before the expiration of one hundred
(100) days. (1990 Code § 9-201)
3-4-2: BURDEN ON INTERSTATE COMMERCE; HEARING:
Any person engaged in interstate commerce or upon whom the provisions of this
chapter would impose a direct and unlawful burden on interstate commerce may
request in writing a hearing before the municipal judge to consider an
exemption from the licensing terms of this chapter. (1990 Code § 9-201)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any itinerant vendor to sell, offer for sale,
exhibit for sale, or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale
thereof, any goods or merchandise in the city without first obtaining a license
as herein provided.
      2.   The city clerk shall issue to any itinerant vendor a license
authorizing such itinerant vendor to sell, exhibit for sale, offer for sale, or
exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof in the city, his
goods or merchandise only after such itinerant vendor shall have fully complied
with all provisions of this chapter and shall have paid the license fees
hereinafter provided, which sum shall be compensation to the city for the
services herein required of it and to enable the city to partially defray the
expenses of enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   No license shall be required of any person selling only to retail
and wholesale merchants operating in the city. (1990 Code § 9-202)
   B.   License Fee: The license fee for itinerant vendor shall be as set by
the city council. (1990 Code § 9-204)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; BOND:
The itinerant vendor shall make application to the city clerk at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of his contemplated sale or exhibit to be held in the
city, which application shall be in the form of an affidavit, stating the full
name and address of the itinerant vendor, the date of birth of an individual,
the vendor's social security or federal tax identification number, the location
of his or its principal office and place of business, the names and addresses
of its officers if it be a corporation, and the partnership name and the names
and addresses of all partners if such itinerant vendor be a firm. The
application therefor must be accompanied by:
   A.   A statement showing the kind and character of goods to be sold, or
merchandise to be sold, offered for sale or exhibited.
   B.   A certified copy of the articles of incorporation, if the itinerant
vendor be a corporation, incorporated under the laws of this state.
   C.   A certified copy of its permit or authority to do business in the state
as may be required by applicable state law.
   D.   A certified copy of a current and valid state sales tax permit.
   E.   A bond in the sum of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
executed by the itinerant vendor as principal, with some surety company
authorized to do business in the state as surety, which bond shall be payable
to the city for the use and benefit of any person or persons entitled thereto
and conditioned that the principal and surety will pay all damages to person,
or persons, caused by or arising from, or growing out of the wrongful or
illegal conduct of the itinerant vendor while conducting the sale or exhibit in
the city. The bond shall remain in full force and effect for the entire
duration of the license permit as provided herein, and two (2) years
thereafter. (1990 Code § 9-203)
3-4-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
The license provided for in this chapter shall not be transferable nor give
authority to more than one person to conduct a business as an itinerant vendor,
but any person having obtained such license may have the assistance of one or
more persons in conducting the business. (1990 Code § 9-205)
3-4-6: PRIVATE RESIDENCES; INVITATION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Consent Or Invitation Required: In the exercise of the authority
conferred upon the city by state law, the practice of going to, in or upon the
premises of any private residence in the city by door to door salespersons,
solicitors, peddlers and order takers without the express consent, request or
invitation of the owner or the occupant of such private residence, for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the purchase or for the sale of goods, wares,
or publications or merchandise of any description, or the purpose of peddling
or hawking the same, or for the purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is
hereby prohibited. (1990 Code § 9-206)
   B.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not apply to itinerant vendors who
reside in this county selling or soliciting any order for the sale of milk,
dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs or other farm and garden produce
which are produced or grown by the vendor when the sale of the commodities
named in this section is authorized by law. (1990 Code § 9-207)
3-4-7: PROHIBITED HOURS OF SALES:
It is unlawful for any person to go from house to house or door to door within
the city, for the purpose of selling, offering for sale, or taking orders for
the sale of any personal property, service or subscription to publications,
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
(1990 Code § 9-208)
3-4-8: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor against the city. Any person convicted of violating any provisions
of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 9-209)
CHAPTER 5
SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Register Of Purchases Required
3-5-3: Purchases From Minors
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ITEMS OF HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE: A. Beds and the component parts thereof;
   B.   Chairs of all types;
   C.   Chests;
   D.   Lamps of all types;
   E.   Lounges of all types;
   F.   Sofas of all types;
   G.   Tables of all types;
   H.   Organs;
   I.   Pianos; and
   J.   Other items of whatever nature used for the household storage of
clothing.
MAJOR APPLIANCES: A. Clothes washers and dryers;
   B.   Dishwashers;
   C.   Refrigerators and freezers;
   D.   Stoves and ranges; and
   E.   Trash compactors.
PAWNBROKER: Any person whose business or occupation is to take, receive, by way
of pledge, pawn or exchange any goods, wares or merchandise or any kind of
personal property whatsoever.
SECONDHAND ARTICLE: Any item of tangible personal property, except those
expressly excluded herein, which shall have been sold either once or many times
previous to the sale of the item regulated herein. The term "secondhand
article" shall not include used books, "items of household furniture", as
herein defined, nor "major appliances", as herein defined. (1990 Code § 9-501)
3-5-2: REGISTER OF PURCHASES REQUIRED:
   A.   Daily Register: Any person carrying on or engaging in for profit the
business of purchasing secondhand articles and any person who shall purchase
such articles for profit incidental to any other business activity, and any
pawnbroker, shall maintain a daily register of the names and addresses of all
parties from whom such purchases are made with the description of the article
or articles purchased from or pawned by such person.
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as to
apply to returns of merchandise to any person where the article or articles
returned have been previously purchased from or pawned by the person making
such return; nor to apply to purchases of articles from any sale held pursuant
to the orders of any court.
   C.   Copy Of Register Furnished To Police Chief: A signed copy of the daily
register shall be furnished by mail or personal delivery to the chief of police
or his designated agent within twenty four (24) hours of any purchase or pawn.
(1990 Code § 9-502)
3-5-3: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
It is unlawful for any person described in subsection 3-5-2A of this chapter to
buy or receive any secondhand article from any minor without first obtaining
the consent of the parent or guardian of such person. (1990 Code § 9-503)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATION CENTERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Other Laws Applicable
3-6-3: License Required; Fees
3-6-4: Application For License
3-6-5: Investigation
3-6-6: License Issuance Authorized; Conditions
3-6-7: Denial Of License; Appeal
3-6-8: Expiration Of License
3-6-9: Renewal Of License
3-6-10: Compliance With Other Requirements
3-6-11: Operation Regulations
3-6-12: Dancing In Family Recreation Centers
3-6-13: Location Restricted
3-6-14: Sign Required At Entrances
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ADULTS: Persons at least eighteen (18) years of age.
FAMILY RECREATION CENTER: A room or place where persons twelve (12) years of
age or older, or under age twelve (12) when accompanied by a parent or
guardian, are permitted to play pool or billiards. Coin operated games and
other amusement devices may be located in family recreation centers.
YOUTH RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Any person maintaining, operating, leasing,
licensing or otherwise furnishing any premises or place open to the public
wherein only persons at least sixteen (16) years and under the age of eighteen
(18) years may engage in recreational activities, including dancing, either for
a fee or for any other consideration, and including the sale of foods, soft
drinks and other nonalcoholic refreshments. The term "youth recreational
facility" shall include dance clubs and all facilities, which are not
maintained by public funds, for the entertainment of youth. (1990 Code § 9-401)
3-6-2: OTHER LAWS APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to exempt any person
operating a youth recreational facility or family recreation center from
compliance with any other applicable provision of this code or ordinance of the
city not in conflict herewith, unless specifically excluded herein by
reference. (1990 Code § 9-402)
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to maintain, operate or
manage within the city a youth recreational facility or any family recreation
center without first obtaining a license therefor. (1990 Code § 9-403)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Application Fee: Every application for either license required by
the provisions of this chapter shall be accompanied by an application fee as
set by the city council.
      2.   License Fee: The license fee for either license required by this
chapter shall be as set by the city council. (1990 Code § 9-405)
3-6-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses required by the provisions of this chapter shall be
made upon forms prepared and made available by the chief of police and shall
state:
   A.   The name of the owner of the real estate and fixtures for which the
license is to be issued and the description of such real estate.
   B.   If the applicant is not the owner of such real estate and fixtures, a
copy of the lease or other arrangement, under which such applicant holds
possession thereof, shall be attached to the application.
   C.   The full name, age, residence, present and previous employment record
of the applicant, or if the applicant is an association, corporation,
partnership or joint venture, such information concerning the operators,
managers, partners, principal backers and persons having supervisory control
over the premises thereof.
   D.   The length of time the applicant has been a bona fide resident or
authorized to do business in the state immediately preceding the filing of the
application and the applicant's previous addresses for the last ten (10) years.
   E.   Applicants for youth recreational facility licenses and family
recreation center licenses shall execute an agreement that the premises covered
by the application may be inspected by any officer of the police department at
any time such premises are occupied. Any officer making such an inspection
shall forthwith, and in no event later than forty eight (48) hours after such
inspection, make a written record of such inspection.
   F.   Such other information as the chief of police shall find reasonably
necessary to execute the general purpose of this chapter and to make a fair
determination of the moral qualifications of the applicant, principal backers
and the managers and operators thereof. (1990 Code § 9-404)
3-6-5: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Authority Of Police Chief: Upon receipt of an application for license
for the operation of a youth recreational facility or family recreation center,
the chief of police shall promptly cause an investigation to be made of the
applicant, and of the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the
facility.
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: No license for a youth recreational
facility or family recreation center shall be issued until it shall be found by
inspection that such facility complies with and conforms to all sections of
this chapter and other ordinances, health and fire regulations of the city;
that it is properly ventilated and supplied with sufficient toilet conveniences
and is adequately lighted and is a safe and proper place for the purpose for
which it is used. (1990 Code § 9-406)
3-6-6: LICENSE ISSUANCE AUTHORIZED; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Youth Recreational Facility: The chief of police shall authorize the
issuance of a youth recreational facility license for the operation of such
facility hereunder when he finds, after investigation:
      1.   The applicant or, if the applicant is a corporation, association,
partnership or joint venture, the proposed operators, partners, managers or
principal backers thereof, are adults and have never been convicted of any
felony or any offense involving moral turpitude.
      2.   That the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the youth
recreational facility does not violate any provisions of the statutes and
regulations of the state, statutes of the United States, the ordinances of the
city or provisions of this code, including those relating to the operation of
pool halls and the sale of alcoholic beverages within the state.
      3.   That the applicant does not hold a federal gambling tax stamp or an
alcoholic beverage resale license. (1990 Code § 9-407)
   B.   Family Recreation Center: The chief of police shall authorize the
issuance of a family recreation center license for the operation of such
facility hereunder when he finds, after investigation:
      1.   The applicant, or if the applicant is a corporation, association,
partnership or joint venture, the proposed operators, partners or managers, are
adults and have never been convicted of any felony or any offense involving
moral turpitude.
      2.   That the manner in which the applicant proposes to operate the
family recreation center does not violate any provisions of the statutes and
regulations of the state, the ordinances of the city or provisions of this
code.
      3.   That the applicant does not hold a federal gambling tax stamp or an
alcoholic beverage resale license. (1990 Code § 9-408)
3-6-7: DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
   A.   Denial: The chief of police shall act upon the application for the
licenses required by the provisions of this chapter. If the chief of police
disapproves and denies the application, he shall notify the applicant in
writing within five (5) days after the denial thereof giving the reasons for
the denial of the license. (1990 Code § 9-409)
   B.   Appeal From Denial:
      1.   Any person whose application for the licenses required by the
provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the city council.
Notice of the appeal stating the grounds therefor shall be filed with the chief
of police and the city clerk within five (5) days after receipt of the notice
of denial.
      2.   Within ten (10) days thereafter, the city council shall hold a
public hearing upon the appeal at which hearing both the applicant and the
chief of police, and other interested parties, may present such evidence as
they deem advisable.
      3.   Within ten (10) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the city
council shall affirm or reverse the denial for the license for the operation of
a youth recreational facility or family recreation center. (1990 Code § 9-410)
3-6-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of each year. (1990 Code § 9-411)
3-6-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Renewal of licenses issued hereunder shall be in accordance with procedures
adopted by the mayor. (1990 Code § 9-412)
3-6-10: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
All of the provisions of chapter 1 of this title governing city licenses
generally shall apply to licenses under this chapter unless this chapter
requires otherwise. (1990 Code § 9-413)
3-6-11: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Youth Recreational Facility: It is unlawful for any youth recreational
facility operator, manager or person having supervisory control thereof, or
employee, to do or permit to be done upon the licensed premises any of the
following acts:
      1.   Violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Violate any of the statutes of the state.
      3.   Operate or be open for operation during hours other than specified
as follows:
         a.   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday - six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         b.   Friday - six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
         c.   Saturday - twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
         d.   In addition, on any day preceding a day when public schools in
the city are not in session, a youth recreational facility may operate from
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight; and on New
Year's Eve from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day.
      4.   Permit any person not an employee to be or remain on the licensed
premises or in that portion of the premises wherein the recreational activities
take place more than fifteen (15) minutes after closing time.
      5.   Operate without having at least two (2) adult persons present on the
premises as managers or supervisors during the recreational activity.
      6.   Permit any person who has reached his eighteenth birthday, other
than a parent of a youth on the premises, to be present on the premises or to
engage in the recreational activities, except as provided in subsection A5 of
this section.
      7.   Permit or allow to occur upon or in the immediate vicinity of the
licensed premises repeated public disturbances and breaches of the peace.
      8.   Permit on the premises beer or any intoxicating beverages, or any
intoxicated person to be on the premises. (1990 Code § 9-414)
   B.   Family Recreation Center: It is unlawful for any family recreation
center operator, manager or person having supervisory control thereof, or
employee, to do or permit to be done any of the following acts:
      1.   Violate any of the provisions of the chapter.
      2.   Violate any of the statutes of the state.
      3.   Operate or be open for operation during hours other than specified
as follows:
         a.   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (1990 Code § 9-415)
         b.   Friday and Saturday - eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. the following day. (1990 Code § 9-415; amd. 2004 Code)
         c.   Sunday - twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
         d.   In addition, on any day preceding a day when public schools are
not in session closing hours are extended from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
to one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
      4.   Permit any person not an employee to be or remain on the licensed
premises or in that portion of the premises wherein the recreational activities
take place more than fifteen (15) minutes after closing time.
      5.   Operate without having at least one person eighteen (18) years of
age or older present on the licensed premises as a manager or supervisor during
the operational hours.
      6.   Permit any person under the age of twelve (12) years to be present
on the premises or engage in recreational activities without the presence and
permission of his adult parent or legal guardian. Persons under the age of
twelve (12) years may be present in establishments wherein three (3) or less
coin operated amusement devices including pool tables are maintained when such
are incidental to the conduct of another lawful business on the premises.
      7.   Permit on the premises any intoxicating alcoholic beverage, or any
intoxicated person, or to permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) to
consume beer or alcoholic beverages.
      8.   Operate without having some portion of the front or the side
enclosed by clear glass, permitting an unobstructed view from the outside into
the establishment.
      9.   Permit on the premises any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years during a public school day prior to three o'clock (3:00) P.M. (1990 Code
§ 9-415)
3-6-12: DANCING IN FAMILY RECREATION CENTERS:
Dancing is hereby prohibited in any family recreation center. (1990 Code § 9-
416)
3-6-13: LOCATION RESTRICTED:
No youth recreational facility shall be located nearer than seventy five feet
(75') from any beer tavern, nor three hundred feet (300') from any school,
church or liquor store. (1990 Code § 9-417)
3-6-14: SIGN REQUIRED AT ENTRANCES:
   A.   The entrance of every youth recreational facility shall be plainly
marked "Youth Recreational Facility - Persons eighteen (18) years of age or
older prohibited".
   B.   The entrance of every family recreational center shall be plainly
marked "Family Recreation Center - Persons under twelve (12) must be
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian". (1990 Code § 9-418)
CHAPTER 7
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required; Fee
3-7-2: Insurance Required
3-7-3: Operator Responsibility; Revocation Of License
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate or permit to be operated any
taxicab in the city, unless a proper license has been issued to the owner
thereof, and such license is in full force and effect. (1990 Code § 9-601)
   B.   Fee: The fee for a license required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be as set by the city. (1990 Code § 9-603)
3-7-2: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Before any license is issued under this chapter, the applicant shall
file with the city clerk proof that a policy of insurance has been issued, by
an insurance company authorized to do business in the state, providing
liability insurance for each taxicab to be operated by the applicant, with
coverage of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the
injury or death of one person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
for the injury or death of any number of persons in one accident, and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage in any one accident.
      2.   Such insurance coverage shall be effective whether the taxicab was,
at the time of any accident, being driven by the owner, his agent, servant or
employee, lessee or licensee.
      3.   Such policy shall contain a provision that it cannot be cancelled
until ten (10) days' written notice of such cancellation shall have been filed
with the city clerk.
   B.   License Void Upon Termination Of Insurance: If for any reason the
policy of insurance filed pursuant to this section shall terminate, lapse or
become void or ineffective, the license of such vehicle shall automatically
become null and void unless a new policy is obtained. (1990 Code § 9-602)
3-7-3: OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conduct Of Drivers: It is the responsibility of the operator of a
taxicab or taxicabs to see that the driver of each taxicab drives safely,
conducts himself properly, obeys the laws and ordinances of the city, does not
use intoxicating liquor excessively, and does not use narcotics.
   B.   License Revocation; Hearing: Failure of an operator to exercise due
diligence in the discharge of the responsibility as provided in subsection A of
this section shall be cause for revocation of his license by the city council
after opportunity for a public hearing. (1990 Code § 9-604)
CHAPTER 8
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Purpose
3-8-2: Findings
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Classification Of Licenses
3-8-5: Sexually Oriented Business License Required
3-8-6: Sexually Oriented Business Employee License Required
3-8-7: Fees
3-8-8: Inspection
3-8-9: Expiration Of License
3-8-10: Unlawful Acts
3-8-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-8-12: No Transfer Of License
3-8-13: Hours Of Operation
3-8-14: Additional Regulations For Adult Motels
3-8-15: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
3-8-16: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
3-8-17: Additional Regulations Concerning Public Nudity
3-8-18: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And Videos
3-8-19: Exterior Portions Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-8-20: Signage
3-8-21: Sale, Use, Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-8-22: Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited; Attendant Required
3-8-23: Massages Prohibited
3-8-24: Hours Of Operation; Exception
3-8-25: Public Nuisance
3-8-26: Violation A Misdemeanor
3-8-27: Location
3-8-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses and
related activities to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of Poteau ("the city"), and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first
amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market, or to condone or legitimize
the distribution of obscene materials. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-2: FINDINGS:
Based on the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on the community, and on
findings incorporated in the cases of City Of Renton v. Playtime Theatres,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976);
and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); Arcara v. Cloud Books,
Inc., 478 U.S. 697, (1986); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Iacobucei
v. City Of Newport, Ky, 479 U.S. 92 (1986); United States v. O'Brien, 391 U.S.
367 (1968); DLS, Inc. v. City Of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997);
Kev, Inc. v. Kitsap County, 793 F.2d 1053 (9th Cir. 1986); Hang On, Inc. v.
City Of Arlington, 65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995); and South Florida Free
Beaches, Inc. v. City Of Miami, 734 F.2d 608 (11th Cir. 1984), as well as
studies conducted in other cities including, but not limited to, Phoenix,
Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana;
Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier,
California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and findings reported in the "Final
Report Of The Attorney General's Commission On Pornography" (1986), the "Report
Of The Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented
Businesses" (June 6, 1989, state of Minnesota), and statistics obtained from
the U.S. department of health and human services, centers for disease control
and prevention, the council finds that:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments, and there is presently no mechanism to hold owners of these
establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their premises.
   B.   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex related
crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where sexually oriented
businesses are located. See, e.g., studies of the cities of Phoenix, Arizona;
Indianapolis, Indiana; and Austin, Texas.
   C.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
See, e.g., California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109, 111 (1972). The offering and
providing of such booths and/or cubicles encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions. See, e.g., "Final Report Of The Attorney
General's Commission On Pornography" (1986) at 376-77.
   D.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses, for the purpose of engaging in sex within those
premises. See, e.g., Arcara v. Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697, 698 (1986); see
also "Final Report Of The Attorney General's Commission On Pornography" (1986)
at 376-77.
   E.   At least fifty (50) communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, non A, non B amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections. See, e.g., study of Fort Meyers, Florida.
   F.   For the period 1985 through 1995, the total number of reported cases of
AIDS in the United States caused by the immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was
523,056. See, e.g., statistics of the U.S. department of health and human
services, centers for disease control and prevention.
   G.   The total number of cases of early (less than 1 year) syphilis in the
United States reported during the ten (10) year period 1985-1995 was 367,796.
See, e.g., statistics of the U.S. department of health and human services,
centers for disease control and prevention.
   H.   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported annually
remains at a high level, with a total of 1,250,581 cases reported during the
period 1993-1995. See, e.g., statistics of the U.S. department of health and
human services, centers for disease control and prevention.
   I.   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October 22,
1986, advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug use, exposure to infected
blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her newborn.
   J.   According to the best scientific evidence available, AIDS and HIV
infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts. See, e.g., findings of the U.S. department of health and human
services, centers for disease control and prevention.
   K.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are unhealthy,
in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part,
because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of the
owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities. See, e.g., "Final Report Of The Attorney
General's Commission On Pornography" (1986) at 377.
   L.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of sexually oriented
businesses where persons view "adult" oriented films. See, e.g., "Final Report
Of The Attorney General's Commission On Pornography" (1986) at 377.
   M.   Nude dancing in adult establishments encourages prostitution, increases
sexual assaults, and attracts other criminal activity (see, e.g., Barnes v.
Glen Theatre, 501 U.S. 560, 583 [1991]), and increases the likelihood of drug
dealing and drug use. See, e.g., Kev, Inc. v. Kitsap County, 793 F.2d 1053,
1056 (9th Cir. 1986).
   N.   These findings raise substantial governmental concerns.
   O.   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
   P.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the
sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the sexually
oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety, and
welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the city. It
is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein.
   Q.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and criminal activity.
   R.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct this chapter is designed to prevent or who are
likely to be witnesses to such activity.
   S.   The fact that an applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee
license has been convicted of a sex related crime leads to the rational
assumption that the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention to
this chapter, and the barring of such individuals from operation or employment
in sexually oriented businesses for a period of ten (10) years for a previous
felony conviction serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads to
the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
   T.   This chapter is necessary and proper to provide for safety, to preserve
health, and to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good
order, comfort and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and is
authorized on that basis by Oklahoma law. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings given.
However, acts prohibited elsewhere in this chapter are not permitted merely by
being included within these definitions.
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or token operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion picture, videocassettes, CDs, DVDs or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations that depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be
categorized as "adult bookstore" or "adult video store". Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an "adult bookstore" or "adult video store" so long as one of
its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas". A principal business purpose need
not be a primary use of an establishment so long as it is a significant use
based upon the visible inventory or commercial activity of the establishment.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of seminudity; or
   B.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   C.   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are intended
for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
   A.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
twenty four (24) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than twenty four (24) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown that are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear, in person, in a state
of seminudity.
DIRECTOR: The Poteau director of planning and redevelopment.
EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis, or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of said business.
"Employee" does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery
of goods to the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on
the premises as a patron or customer.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business; or
   E.   A sexually oriented business or premises on which the sexually oriented
business is located.
LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER: A facility licensed by the state of Oklahoma whether
situated within the city or not, that provides care, training, education,
custody, treatment or supervision for more than twelve (12) children under
fourteen (14) years of age, where such children are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than
twenty four (24) hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is
operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
seminudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, anal
cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or vulva, with
less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license.
SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: A. For a female, a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers no more, or little more, than the nipple and areola of the
female breast, the genitals, pubic region and anus; or
   B.   For a male, a state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more,
or little more, than the genitals, pubic region and anus.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if fully and opaquely covered;
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states, or other
countries.
   B.   For which:
1. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
2. Less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
3. Less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows: a) adult arcades; b)
adult bookstores or adult video stores; c) adult cabarets; d) adult motels; e)
adult motion picture theaters; f) adult theaters; g) escort agencies; h) nude
model studios; and i) sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-5: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business license.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who operates a sexually oriented business
to employ a person to work and/or perform services on the premises of the
sexually oriented business, if such employee is not in possession of a valid
sexually oriented business employee license, except if the employment is of
limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or maintenance of
machinery, equipment, or the premises.
   C.   An application for a sexually oriented business license must be made on
a form provided by the city.
   D.   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or a diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. It need not be professionally prepared but must be
drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of
the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). Prior to
issuance of a license, the premises must be inspected by the health department,
fire department, building department, zoning department and police department.
   E.   The applicant shall provide such information (including fingerprints)
as necessary to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative
duty to supplement an application with new information received subsequent to
the date the application was deemed completed.
   F.   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually oriented business
is an individual, he must sign the application for a business license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than a single individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or
greater interest in the business must sign the application for a business
license as applicant.
   G.   Applications for a business license, whether original or renewal, must
be made by the intended operator of the enterprise. The following information
shall be provided on the application form:
      1.   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant(s);
      2.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      3.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      4.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the sexually oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant, the fictitious name must be stated together with documents proving
legal entitlement to the name;
      5.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted, or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a "specified
criminal activity" and, if so, the "specified criminal activity" involved, the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      6.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
business license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person
residing with the applicant is or has been a partner in a partnership or an
officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was
licensed under a sexually oriented business ordinance whose business license
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the business license was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
      7.   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
      8.   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing;
      9.   The telephone number of the establishment;
      10.   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be located;
      11.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and
the date on which the establishment began operations as a sexually oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
      12.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten (10)
days following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same;
   H.   Each application for a business license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee;
      2.   If the establishment is an Oklahoma corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto, or if a
foreign corporation, a certified copy of the certificate of authority to
transact business in this state, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   If the establishment is a limited partnership or limited liability
company formed under the laws of Oklahoma, a certified copy of the certificate
of limited partnership or limited liability company, together with all
amendments thereto, or if a foreign limited partnership or limited liability
company, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership or limited
liability company and the qualification documents, together with all amendments
thereto;
      4.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      5.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
are not also the owners of the establishment, then the lease, purchase
contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other document(s)
evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed owners of
the establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of the tract or
portion thereof that is to be used for the establishment for the purpose of the
operation of the establishment;
      6.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses, established church, synagogue or regular place of religious
worship, a public or private elementary or secondary school, or the boundary of
a public park or building, a licensed daycare center, an existing entertainment
business that is oriented primarily toward children or family entertainment,
any properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes, or
an adults only business licensed for on premises beer or alcohol consumption
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property. For purposes of this
section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      7.   Any of subsections H2 through H6 of this section, shall not be
required for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents
previously furnished the director with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   I.   Every application for a license shall contain a statement certifying
that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application, that the information contained therein and furnished therewith is
true and correct; and the applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   J.   A separate application and business license shall be required for each
sexually oriented business classification.
   K.   The director shall approve or deny issuance of the license within forty
five (45) days of receipt of the completed application. The director shall
issue a license to an applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of
the evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      1.   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      2.   An applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding twelve (12) months, or whose license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months;
      4.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the city in taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any business;
      5.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a "specified criminal activity";
      6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has not
been approved by the health department, fire department, the police department,
or the building department as being in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances;
      7.   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   L.   The license issued shall state on its face the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the sexually
oriented business, and the classification for which the license is issued. The
license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the
sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   M.   The health department, fire department, building department, police
department and zoning department shall complete their certification that the
premises are in compliance or not in compliance within twenty (20) days of
receipt of the completed application by the director. The certification shall
be promptly presented to the director.
   N.   In the event that the director determines that an applicant is not
eligible for a sexually oriented business license, the applicant shall be given
notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within forty five (45) days of
the receipt of the completed application by the director, provided that the
applicant may request, in writing at any time before the notice is issued, that
such period be extended for an additional period of not more than ten (10) days
in order to make modifications necessary to comply with this chapter.
   O.   An applicant may appeal the decision of the director regarding a denial
to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk
within fifteen (15) days after service of notice upon the applicant of the
director's decision. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum
or other writing setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and all
arguments in support thereof. The director may, within fifteen (15) days of
service upon him of the applicant's memorandum, submit a memorandum in response
to the memorandum filed by the applicant on appeal to the city council. After
reviewing such memoranda, as well as the director's written decision, if any,
and exhibits submitted to the director, the city council shall vote either to
uphold or overrule the director's decision. Such vote shall be taken within
twenty one (21) calendar days after the filing of the appeal. However, all
parties shall be required to comply with the director's decision during the
pendency of the appeal.
   P.   A license may be annually renewed upon the written application of the
applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "specified criminal activity" or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial
license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be made
within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
3-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-6: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to obtain employment with a sexually
oriented business if such person is not in possession of a valid sexually
oriented business employee license issued to such person by the director
pursuant to this chapter, except if the employment is of limited duration and
for the sole purpose of repair and/or maintenance of machinery, equipment, or
the premises.
   B.   The applicant shall provide such information (including fingerprints)
as necessary to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative
duty to supplement an application with new information received subsequent to
the date the application was deemed completed.
   C.   Each application for an employee license shall be accompanied by
payment of the application fee. Application forms shall be supplied by the
director, and shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including "stage" names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color, and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state, and number of photo driver's license, or other
state issued identification card information;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years old.
   D.   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state, or
country, has ever had any license, permit, or authorization to do business
denied, revoked, or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting
trial on pending charges, of a "specified criminal activity" and, if so, the
"specified criminal activity" involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of
each.
   E.   Every application for a license shall contain a statement certifying
that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application, that the information contained therein and furnished therewith is
true and correct; and the applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business or employee license.
   G.   The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within thirty (30) days
from the date of the completed application. After the investigation, the
director shall issue an employee license unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      2.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity";
      4.   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      5.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two (2) years of the date of the current
application.
   H.   The license issued shall state on its face the name of the person to
whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the sexually
oriented business. The employee shall keep the license on his or her person at
all times while engaged in employment or performing services on the sexually
oriented business premises so that said license may be available for inspection
upon lawful request.
   I.   The license shall be subject to annual renewal upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant
has not been convicted of any "specified criminal activity" or committed any
act during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall
be made within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a
license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
3-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-7: FEES:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license, whether new or
renewal, is five hundred dollars ($500.00). The annual fee for a sexually
oriented business employee license, whether new or renewal, is fifty dollars
($50.00). These fees are to be used to pay for the cost of the administration
and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-8: INSPECTION:
An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department,
health department, fire department, building department, or other city or state
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is open for
business. It is unlawful to refuse such an inspection. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance.
   B.   An application for renewal of an existing license should be made at
least thirty (30) days before the expiration date. If an application for
renewal is made less than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the
license will expire as scheduled and remain invalid until a new license is
issued.
   C.   When the director denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
The following acts are unlawful:
   A.   Any violation of, or noncompliance with the requirements of, this
chapter;
   B.   Intoxication on the premises of a sexually oriented business;
   C.   Refusal to promptly allow inspection of the premises as authorized by
this chapter;
   D.   Permitting gambling by any person on the premises;
   E.   Permitting the possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the
premises;
   F.   Permitting the sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises;
   G.   Permitting prostitution on the premises;
   H.   Permitting any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation, or any other specified sexual activity or conduct to occur in or
on the premises. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city council may suspend or revoke a license upon any basis set out
in chapter 1 of this title, or if it determines that a licensee or an employee
of a licensee has:
      1.   Committed any unlawful act set out in this chapter;
      2.   Is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any taxes or fees;
or
      3.   Has attempted to sell his business or employee license, or has sold,
assigned, or transferred ownership or control of the sexually oriented business
to a nonlicensee;
   B.   When the city council revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented license
for one year from the date revocation became effective. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-12: NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 684, 3-3-
2008)
3-8-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Sexually oriented businesses may be open only between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. It is unlawful to be open to the
public during any other hours. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-14: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a
period of less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel.
   B.   It is unlawful if a person in control of a sleeping room in a hotel,
motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a sexually oriented
business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and, within ten
(10) hours from the time the room is rented, rents or subrents the same
sleeping room again. The terms "rent" and "subrent" mean the act of permitting
a room to be occupied for any form of consideration. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
It is unlawful for an escort agency to employ a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, or for a person under the age of eighteen (18) to act,
agree to act, or attempt to act as an escort. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   Nudity is prohibited in a nude model studio. However, an exception may
be granted in the reasonable discretion of the licensing supervisor upon a
finding that the operation is in fact a bona fide art instruction business.
   B.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   C.   It is unlawful for a person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio.
   D.   It is unlawful to appear in a state of nudity, or with knowledge, allow
another to appear in a state of nudity or seminudity, in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right of way.
   E.   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
   F.   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity or seminudity did so in a modeling class
operated by either a proprietary school licensed by the state of Oklahoma, a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation, or by a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 684, 3-
3-2008)
3-8-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a state of nudity in a
sexually oriented business.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a state of seminudity
unless the person is an employee who is at least ten feet (10') from any patron
or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') above the floor.
   C.   It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state of seminudity in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any such
employee.
   D.   It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state of seminudity in a
sexually oriented business, to touch a patron or the clothing of a patron, or
for a patron to touch any such employee. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-18: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film,
videocassette, or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The director may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
   B.   Every application for a license shall contain a statement certifying
that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application, that the information contained therein and furnished therewith is
true and correct; and the applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the director or his designee.
   D.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   E.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection E of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted, as designated in
the license application.
   G.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   H.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
   I.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   J.   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between viewing
rooms or booths.
   K.   No person shall make any attempt to make an opening of any kind between
the viewing booths or rooms.
   L.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
   M.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   N.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty eight
inches (48") of the floor. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-19: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   It is unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented business
to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be visible from
any point outside the establishment.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the establishment is a part of a commercial
multi-unit center and the exterior portions of each individual unit in the
commercial multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business,
are painted the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to
be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-20: SIGNAGE:
Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code, or regulation to the contrary,
it shall be unlawful for the operator of any sexually oriented business or any
other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for the sexually
oriented business other than the one outside sign. It shall have no more than
two (2) display surfaces. Each such display surface shall be a flat plane and
shall not contain any flashing lights, shall not exceed seventy five (75)
square feet in area, and shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height or ten feet
(10') in length. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-21: SALE, USE, OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
The sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a
sexually oriented business is prohibited. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-22: PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED; ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to allow a person who is younger than eighteen (18)
years of age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually oriented business at
any time.
   B.   An attendant must be stationed at each public entrance to the sexually
oriented business at all times during such sexually oriented businesses'
regular business hours. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-23: MASSAGES PROHIBITED:
No massage therapy license shall be issued to, or upon the same premises as, or
to an employee or business partner of, a sexually oriented business. (Ord. 684,
3-3-2008)
3-8-24: HOURS OF OPERATION; EXCEPTION:
No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-25: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any sexually oriented business operating without a valid business license is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated by closing
the business or may be abated by either criminal or civil action. (Ord. 684, 3-
3-2008)
3-8-26: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
3-8-27: LOCATION:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in this code, shall be allowed
only as a conditional use and only in a C-2 commercial zone provided that:
      1.   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a church, synagogue or regular place of religious
worship, a public or private elementary or secondary school, or the boundary of
a public park or building, a licensed daycare center, an existing entertainment
business that is oriented primarily toward children or family entertainment,
any properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes, an
adults only business licensed for on premises beer or alcohol consumption, or
another sexually oriented business.
      2.   For the purpose of this section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park or building, licensed
daycare center, child or family entertainment business, any properties zoned
for residential use or used for residential purposes or an adults only business
licensed for on premises beer or alcohol consumption.
   B.   It is illegal for sexually oriented businesses to deliver any services
whatsoever off premises from the business location in the C-2 commercial zone.
No delivery of products, maid service, or any other personal service, may be
rendered in any other zone, or to any other location in the C-2 commercial
zone. (Ord. 684, 3-3-2008)
CHAPTER 9
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Conducting Garage Sales
3-9-3: Number Of Garage Sales Allowed
3-9-4: Persons And Sales Excepted
3-9-5: Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARAGE SALES: All sales entitled "garage sales", "yard sales", "lawn sales",
"attic sales", "rummage sales", "flea market sales", or any other similar
casual sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any means
whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of the sale. Section
11-4-9 of this Code governs signs regarding garage sales.
GOODS: Any goods, warehouse merchandise, or other items of personal property
capable of being the object of a sale.
PERSON: Individuals, households, families, partnerships, voluntary associations
and corporations. (Ord. 749, 5-1-2017)
3-9-2: CONDUCTING GARAGE SALES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale in the
City at any time outside of the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
   B.   The goods that are offered for sale shall be displayed and arranged for
sale no earlier than four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Thursday prior to the sale.
The goods that are offered for sale shall be stored and totally removed from
view of the public by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the Monday morning following
the sale. The goods offered for sale shall only be visible to the public four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the Thursday prior to the sale and may remain visible
during the sale, but must be stored and totally removed from the view of the
public by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the Monday morning following the sale.
No goods will be allowed in front, side or back yards, carports, porches,
patios, decks, truck beds, trailers, tables or covered by tarps from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Thursday. (Ord.
749, 5-1-2017)
3-9-3: NUMBER OF GARAGE SALES ALLOWED:
   A.   A garage sale may only be held four (4) times within a twelve (12)
month period only on the days and during the hours provided in section
3-9-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 749, 5-1-2017)
3-9-4: PERSONS AND SALES EXCEPTED:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the
following persons or sales:
      1.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      2.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials; or
      3.   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or designated in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five (5) in number. (Ord.
749, 5-1-2017)
3-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person, association or corporation who shall violate any of the terms and
regulations of this chapter, shall, upon conviction be punished as provided by
a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs. (Ord. 749, 5-1-2017)
CHAPTER 10
RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definition
3-10-2: Permit Requirements
3-10-3: Location Restrictions
3-10-4: Conditions Of Operation
3-10-5: Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities
3-10-6: Wholesale Marijuana Facilities
3-10-7: Marijuana Storage Facilities
3-10-8: Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use
3-10-9: Permit Inspections And Other Requirements
3-10-10: Commercial Marijuana Processing Facilities
3-10-1: DEFINITION:
Retail marijuana establishments are defined as any retail marijuana
establishment licensed by the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018)
3-10-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to obtain
a retail marijuana establishment permit from the City Clerk.
   B.   The retail marijuana establishment permit fee shall be one thousand
eight hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per year. The fee shall be used
to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement regarding retail marijuana establishments.
   C.   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a Commercially zoned
area of the corporate City limits of Poteau. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord.
801, 6-7-2021)
3-10-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of a private or public preschool, elementary, middle or high school or
within three hundred feet (300') of any place of worship or religious assembly.
   B.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from any
entrance of a private or public elementary or secondary school or place of
worship or religious assembly (as referenced in subsection A. of this section)
to the nearest public entrance of the building or unit in which the proposed
retail marijuana establishment would be located. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd.
Ord. 779, 1-6-2020)
3-10-4: CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   B.   The retail establishment must collect and remit to the proper authority
the City Sales Tax of three percent (3.0%) on all sales.
   C.   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall
be closed on Sundays as well as Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4th and New
Year's Day.
   D.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   E.   It is the intent of the City of Poteau that nothing in this chapter be
construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted.
(Ord. 762, 9-20-2018)
3-10-5: COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES:
Commercial marijuana growing facilities are hereby allowed within the Municipal
boundaries of Poteau, Oklahoma under the following conditions:
   A.   The facility must acquire a permit for the facility from the City
Clerk. The fee for a permit for a commercial marijuana growing facility shall
be one thousand eight hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per year. The
fee shall be used to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement regarding commercial
marijuana growing facilities.
   B.   The facility must be located in an Industrial zoned area. The zoning
for an indoor growing facility is I-1. The zoning for an outdoor growing
facility is I-2.
   C.   The facility shall have limited access. Access points to the secure
area must be locked at all times.
   D.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing of
the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from the public right-of-way.
   E.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems.
   F.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord. 779, 1-6-2020; Ord. 801, 6-
7-2021)
3-10-6: WHOLESALE MARIJUANA FACILITIES:
Wholesale marijuana facilities are allowed in the City of Poteau and must
acquire a City permit for the facility from the City Clerk. The fee for a
permit for a wholesale marijuana facility shall be one thousand eight hundred
seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset
Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement regarding wholesale marijuana facilities.
   A.   Wholesale marijuana facilities permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location is located outside an Industrial zoned
area of the corporate City limits of Poteau.
   B.   Wholesale marijuana facilities permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of a private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational or trade school, college or university or within three hundred feet
(300') of any place of worship or religious assembly.
   C.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection A of this section is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed wholesale marijuana facility would be
located.
   D.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   E.   The hours of operations shall be between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday. Operations shall
be closed on Sundays as well as Christmas, Thanksgiving, July 4th and New
Year's Day.
   F.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
wholesale marijuana facilities permit. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord. 801, 6-
7-2021)
3-10-7: MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES:
Marijuana storage facilities (other than in a retail outlet) are allowed in the
City and must acquire a City permit for the facility from the City Clerk. The
fee for a permit for a marijuana storage facility shall be one thousand eight
hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per year. The fee shall be used to
offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement regarding marijuana storage facilities.
   A.   Marijuana storage facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a Commercial or
Industrial zoned area of the corporate City limits of Poteau.
   B.   A marijuana storage facilities permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of a private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational or trade school, college or university or within three hundred feet
(300') of any place of worship or religious assembly.
   C.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection B of this section is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed marijuana storage facility would be
located.
   D.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilator/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off premises.
   E.   Storage facilities must remain locked at all times when not in
operation. The facility must have an electronic security system and have an
appropriate security fence.
   F.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
marijuana storage facility permit. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord. 779, 1-6-
2020)
3-10-8: MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE:
   A.   Reserved.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein.
   D.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the person that is cultivating marijuana for personal
medical use.
   E.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   F.   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   G.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
related problems. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   H.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
   I.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   J.   If the residence is rented consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in a residence. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord. 779, 1-6-2020)
3-10-9: PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection by
an authorized Municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Municipal inspector.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   D.   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   E.   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all City property
including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities. (Ord. 762, 9-20-2018)
3-10-10: COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES:
Commercial marijuana processing facilities are allowed in the City and must
acquire a City permit for the facility from the City Clerk. The fee for a
permit for a commercial marijuana processing facility shall be one thousand
eight hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00) per year. The fee shall be used
to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement regarding commercial marijuana processing
facilities.
   A.   The facility must be located in C-3 zoned area and shall be an enclosed
structure.
   B.   The facility shall have limited access. The access to the processing
area must be locked at all times that processing activities are not taking
place.
   C.   The processing area, including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with Municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
processing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold
or related problems.
   D.   Processing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
processing marijuana light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property. (Ord. 801, 6-7-2021)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Enforcement By County Health Department
4-1-2: Obstructing Health Officer
4-1-3: Quarantine; Violations
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT 1 :
Anywhere in this code where the word or words "health officer" are used, it may
be construed to mean the director of the county health department or his duly
designated representative unless another person is designated by the mayor. It
is the intent and purpose of the mayor and city council to delegate the
enforcement of the health ordinances of the city as set out in this section and
any such decisions rendered under this section shall be subject to review by
the city council upon an appeal from an offender. (1990 Code § 8-501)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-8B-2 of this code.
4-1-2: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any health
officer or officer charged with the enforcement of the health laws of the city.
(1990 Code § 8-502)
4-1-3: QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or fail to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the county
health department or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (1990 Code § 8-503; amd. 2004 Code)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation. (1990 Code § 8-504; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Defined, Generally
4-2-2: Persons Responsible
4-2-3: Time Does Not Legalize
4-2-4: Remedies Against Nuisances
4-2-5: City Power To Define And Summarily Abate
4-2-6: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
4-2-7: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
4-2-8: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-2-9: Creating Or Maintaining Nuisance Unlawful
4-2-10: Health Nuisances; Abatement
4-2-11: Toilet Facilities Required; Nuisance
4-2-12: Procedures Cumulative
4-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
   A.   Nuisance: A "nuisance" is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to
perform a duty or is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   Public Nuisance: A "public nuisance" is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a "private nuisance". (1990 Code § 8-301)
4-2-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1990 Code § 8-
302)
4-2-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1990 Code § 8-303)
4-2-4: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   Public: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12;
or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 8-
304)
   B.   Private: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statues sections 14
and 15; or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 8-
305)
4-2-5: CITY POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
city has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the
owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (1990 Code §
8-306)
4-2-6: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances declared by
other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be
public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink; or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made.
      2.   Intoxicating Liquor: The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
intoxicating liquor in violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or
keeping of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or
furnished in violation of state law or ordinances of the city.
      3.   Obscene Books, Papers: The exposure, display, sale or distribution
of obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects;
or the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or
distributed.
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   Places Of Prostitution: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Unlawful Activities: The keeping of a place where activities in
violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or carried on.
      7.   Public Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in violation
of the ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such dances are
held.
      8.   Contagious Disease: The public exposure of a person having a
contagious disease.
      9.   Loud Noises: The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises.
      10.   Radio And Television Interference: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others.
      11.   Crowds Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or a
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      12.   Water, Ice Or Snow Falling From Building Onto Street Or Sidewalk:
Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from
any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
      13.   Stagnant Water; Mosquito Breeding: All wells, pools, cisterns,
bodies or containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed,
or which are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the
public safety.
      14.   Weeds And Refuse: Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of
manure, refuse or other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places
for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such
exist.
      15.   Dangerous Buildings:
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay and other cause, or shall become hazardous from
fire, by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or
shall be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of this city or its
inhabitants from any cause.
      16.   Pit Or Hole Endangering Public Safety: Any pit, hole or other thing
which is so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the
public safety.
      17.   Fire Or Explosion Hazard: Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety.
      18.   Activities Endangering Public Peace: Any occupation or activity
which endangers the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare.
      19.   Vehicles Without Current Vehicle Plate: Any motor vehicle (whether
in operating condition or not) or any trailer without a current vehicle plate
as required by law for vehicles used on the public highways, when stored or
kept in a residence district.
      20.   Unsanitary Animal Stables; Animal Noises: Any stable or other place
where animals are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of
the city, by reason of any noise or noises made by the animals therein, or by
reason of lack of sanitation.
      21.   Dog Kennels; Annoying Conditions: The keeping of any dog kennels
within the city for the breeding and raising of dogs that shall become
offensive or annoying to the public by reason of the barking and noise made by
the animals therein contained.
      22.   Cesspools: Any vault, cesspool or sink used to receive human
excrement, slops, garbage, refuse, or other filthy substance.
      23.   Decaying Vegetable Matter: Any pond, slop, trash, refuse, cobs,
manure, decayed or decaying vegetable matter, left, kept or maintained in such
condition as to endanger the public health.
      24.   Overflowing Privy: Every privy or water closet which shall be in an
overflowing, leaking or filthy condition, or in a condition dangerous,
injurious or annoying to the comfort, health and welfare of any resident of the
city.
      25.   Animal Hides: Any green or unsalted hides of any animal kept in any
exposed or open place within the limits of the city.
      26.   Unclean, Defective Ditch: Any unclean, foul, leaking, or broken or
defective ditch, drain, gutter, slop, garbage or manure barrel, box or other
receptacle.
      27.   Offensive Water Or Putrid Substances: Any water or putrid
substances, whether animal or vegetable, to accumulate so as to cause an
offensive odor to be emitted therefrom, or to be in a condition injurious or
dangerous to the health of the neighborhood.
   B.   Enumeration Cumulative: The enumeration of certain public nuisances
listed in subsection A of this section shall be cumulative and not limit other
provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in
more general or more specific terms. (1990 Code § 8-307)
4-2-7: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Nuisances Constituting Immediate Danger:
      1.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally.
      2.   It is recognized that circumstances may be such as to justify, and
even to require the mayor or other appropriate officer or agency of the city
government to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such
nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate action can
be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Submission Of Statement Of Nuisance Condition:
      1.   The chief of the fire department, the chief of police, the city
attorney, the building inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing
inspector or any other officer subordinate to the mayor may submit, through or
with the consent of the mayor, to the city council, a statement as to the
existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a
request or recommendation that it be abated.
      2.   The mayor himself, the health officer and city council or any
resident or residents of the city may submit such a statement and request a
recommendation to the council.
   C.   Council Determination; Hearing; Notice:
      1.   The city council shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance
is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject,
the city council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books,
papers and other effects.
      2.   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the city
council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner
of any property concerned and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if such
notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and
other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a
police officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the names or
addresses are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of
the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly
jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   D.   Abatement By City; Assessment Of Costs:
      1.   If the city council finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the council shall direct the mayor to abate the nuisance or to have it
abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 16.
      2.   The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city
collectible as other debts to the city may be collected. (1990 Code § 8-308)
4-2-8: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (1990 Code § 8-309)
4-2-9: CREATING OR MAINTAINING NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the city or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city.
(1990 Code § 8-310)
4-2-10: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Order Abatement:
      1.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of
any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be in writing.
      2.   Such order may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the
premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a police
officer or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the
owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises are
unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is
without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the
premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city.
   B.   Abatement By City; Assessment Of Costs: If the order is not complied
with, the health officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with
and the cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and the cost of
removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other
city utility bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of water from the
city water system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a
part of such utility bill to which it is added and shall become due and payable
and subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city
utility service, such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
(1990 Code § 8-311)
4-2-11: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings ascribed to them herein:
    HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform with the specifications approved by the state health department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   B.   Facilities Required: Every owner of a residence or other building in
which humans reside, are employed or congregate within the city shall install,
equip and maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human
excrement by use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The
closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water closet type
when located within two hundred feet (200') of a sanitary sewer and accessible
thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater
distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into a septic
tank system or the pit privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy may be
used in such cases only if it meets the standards of, and is approved by, the
state health department.
   C.   Disposal Of Human Excrement: All human excrement disposed of within the
city shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets and privies of the type
provided for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within
the city to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner,
or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the city in any other
manner.
   D.   Privies Kept Clean: All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all
times, and the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times
when the privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything
other than human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy. No
excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or other
serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or sanitary
water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by
the health officer.
   E.   Violation: All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a
manner different from that required by this section and all privies and closets
so constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each
day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense. (1990 Code §
8-312)
4-2-12: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative as to any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (1990 Code § 8-313)
CHAPTER 3
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Food Service Regulations Adopted
4-3-1: FOOD SERVICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: The latest edition of the "Oklahoma State
Department Of Health Rules And Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments"
is hereby adopted and incorporated in this section by reference. At least one
copy of the rules and regulations shall be on file in the office of the city
clerk. The rules and regulations shall govern the definitions; inspection of
food service establishments; the issuance, suspension, and revocation of
permits to operate food service establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of
adulterated or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation. (1990 Code § 8-201)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Trash Or Weeds Accumulation Unlawful
4-4-3: Reporting Accumulation On Property
4-4-4: Receipt Of Report; Hearing And Notice
4-4-5: Removal By City Employees Or Contract
4-4-6: Determination And Assessment Of Costs
4-4-7: Lien On Property; Civil Remedy
4-4-8: Appeals To Council
4-4-9: Depositing Rubbish On Public Or Private Property
4-4-10: Burning Refuse
4-4-11: Removal Of Dead Animals
4-4-12: Littering
4-4-13: Abandoned Refrigerators, Appliances
4-4-14: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEEDS:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption or grown in a tended and cultivated garden
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community of a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (1990 Code § 8-102; amd. 2004
Code)
4-4-2: TRASH OR WEEDS ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the city to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds. (1990
Code § 8-101)
4-4-3: REPORTING ACCUMULATION ON PROPERTY:
Any officer or employee of the city who discovers an accumulation of trash or
the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the city, shall report the condition to the mayor, city
clerk and/or municipal court clerk, if, as a result of the accumulation or
growth, the premises appear to be: (1990 Code § 8-103; amd. Ord. 519, 7-3-1995,
eff. 7-3-1995)
   A.   Detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and the
community;
   B.   A hazard to traffic;
   C.   A fire hazard to property; or
   D.   Any two (2) or more of these conditions. (1990 Code § 8-103)
4-4-4: RECEIPT OF REPORT; HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   Notify Owner Of Violation: Upon receiving the report provided for in
section
4-4-3 of this chapter, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any
reliable source, the mayor, the city clerk and/or the municipal court clerk
shall give written notice of the provisions of this section and that premises
are in violation of section
4-4-2 of this chapter by forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail, with
return receipt requested, to the owner of the property at the address shown by
the current year's tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in
which the property is located. If the return receipt shows that the property
owner cannot be located, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation one time not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of a
hearing.
   B.   Hearing; Abatement By Owner Or City: At least ten (10) days from the
date of receipt of the notice by the owner or the date of publication and upon
the date specified in the notice, the mayor, or designated administrative
officer, may hear the matter and receive information thereon, including
anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by
agent or attorney. If the mayor, or designated administrative officer,
determines that any of the conditions specified in section
4-4-3 of this chapter exist upon the premises, such officer may order the
property to be cleaned of trash, or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed or
destroyed unless, within ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the notice
or date of publication, the owner either:
      1.   Cuts, removes or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with the
notice; or
      2.   Gives written consent authorizing the city to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his right to a hearing. (1990 Code § 8-104; amd. Ord.
519, 7-3-1995, eff. 7-3-1995)
4-4-5: REMOVAL BY CITY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT:
   A.   Right Of Entry: Upon finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or hazard as specified in section
4-4-3 of this chapter, and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on
the property to remove trash, mow weeds or grass, and perform necessary duties
as a governmental function.
   B.   City Supervision Or Letting Of Bids: The work ordered to be performed
under section
4-4-4 of this chapter may be done by the employees of the city under
supervision of the city, or it may be let by contract in the manner for letting
other contracts. (1990 Code § 8-105)
4-4-6: DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under section
4-4-5 of this chapter, the city clerk shall report the cost thereof to the city
council. Such report may be itemized as to each tract of property involved as
follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of
notice, other costs and indirect costs. The city council shall examine the
report and, after receiving appropriate information, shall determine the total
costs of the work. The city council shall direct the city clerk to forward a
statement and demand payment of the total cost by certified mail, with return
receipt requested, to the owner of the property at the address shown by the
current tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in which the
property lies. (1990 Code § 8-106)
4-4-7: LIEN ON PROPERTY; CIVIL REMEDY:
If the costs of the work performed under this chapter are not paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by section
4-4-6 of this chapter, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the costs to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property upon which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be
levied upon the property and be collected by the county treasurer in the manner
prescribed by the laws of this state. The lien is coequal with the lien of ad
valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and
superior to all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall
continue until the cost is fully paid. At any time prior to collection as
provided in this section, the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection
of the amount owing and interest thereon. Upon receiving payment, if any, the
city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien. (1990 Code § 8-107)
4-4-8: APPEALS TO COUNCIL:
Where the city council has designated an administrative officer to carry out
the duties of the findings and hearings in sections
4-4-1 through
4-4-7 of this chapter, the property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
city council from any order of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10)
days after the administrative hearing. (1990 Code § 8-108)
4-4-9: DEPOSITING RUBBISH ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley or in any ditch or watercourse, or
upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in the city. (1990 Code
§ 8-109)
4-4-10: BURNING REFUSE:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to burn any trash or refuse of any type or
material within the city.
   B.   Conditions For Allowing Burning; Permit: It is unlawful for any person
to burn trash, wastepaper, rubbish or refuse, except under a permit issued by,
or in receptacles and conditions approved by, the state health department or
U.S. environmental protection agency. (1990 Code § 8-110)
4-4-11: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the city shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. (1990 Code § 8-
111)
4-4-12: LITTERING:
   A.   Littering Unlawful:
      1.   "Littering" is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper,
tin can, bottles or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the city or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to litter. (1990 Code § 8-112)
   B.   Littering From Automobiles: It is unlawful for any person to throw from
any automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the city any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever. (1990 Code § 8-113)
   C.   Accumulation On Property:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, wastepaper, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash,
wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of
objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements
or otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender. (1990 Code § 8-114)
4-4-13: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS, APPLIANCES:
   A.   Accessibility To Children: It is unlawful for any person to leave in a
place accessible to children any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator,
or other container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more
which has an airtight door with a lock or other fastening device which cannot
be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice box, refrigerator, or
container, without first removing the door, lock or fastener. (1990 Code § 8-
115; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Open Storage: It is unlawful to utilize the premises of any property
for the open storage of any stove or other appliance which has been abandoned,
discarded or is in disrepair. (1990 Code § 8-115)
4-4-14: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 8-116)
CHAPTER 5
JUNKED, WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Nuisance Declared
4-5-3: Storing, Leaving Or Abandonment Of Vehicles
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings given herein:
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle, which does
not have lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired license plate or plates, and the
condition of which is in disrepair, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, abandoned or discarded, and incapable of being moved under its own
power.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel along
the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way publicly owned or maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned
property or facility. (1990 Code § 8-402; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Motor vehicles which are abandoned, dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked,
junked, inoperative, or discarded, or left about the city in places other than
authorized junkyards or other areas authorized by the city council and which
tend to do any one or more of the following:
   A.   Impede traffic in the streets;
   B.   Reduce the value of private property;
   C.   Create fire hazards;
   D.   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
   E.   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare of the residents of the city, are hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (1990 Code § 8-401)
4-5-3: STORING, LEAVING OR ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking,
storing, or leaving of any junk motor vehicle of any kind, whether attended or
not, upon any public or private property within the city. The presence of a
junk motor vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property is hereby
declared a nuisance, a public offense and misdemeanor.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within
a building on private property or to any vehicle held, stored or parked in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the city and on
property operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to zoning laws of
the city, nor shall this section apply to a city owned vehicle in an
appropriate storage place maintained in a lawful place by the city. (1990 Code
§ 8-403)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter by doing any act
prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to be an offense or
misdemeanor thereby, is guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1990 Code § 8-404)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created; Chief
5-1-2: Duties Of Department, Officers
5-1-3: Assistance To Other Communities
5-1-4: Unclaimed Property
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There is a police department, the head of which is the chief of police, who may
also be the city marshal, elected as provided in section
1-6-1 of this code. The chief of police is an officer of the city, and has
supervision and control of the police department. The police chief is subject
to direction of the mayor. All police officers are officers of the city. (1990
Code § 13-301; amd. per correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
5-1-2: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT, OFFICERS:
   A.   Generally: It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and
arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the
ordinances of the city; to suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies
which may come to their knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve
all warrants, writs, executions, and other processes properly directed and
delivered to them; to apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state
law as provided by law, and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all
respects to perform all duties pertaining to the office of police officers.
(1990 Code § 13-302)
   B.   Maintain Order And Peace: Police officers shall perform such duties as
are required of them by the chief of police, city ordinances, federal, state
and county regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of
good order and public peace. (1990 Code § 13-303)
5-1-3: ASSISTANCE TO OTHER COMMUNITIES:
   A.   Emergency Situation: Approval is hereby given for service of members of
the regular police department of the city as police officers of any other city
or town, in an emergency situation, in the state, not more than one hundred
(100) miles distant from this city, when such service is requested by the mayor
or chief of police of the city or town.
   B.   Request For Service: Requests for service under this section are made
by writing or by telephone, or other means of communication, to the mayor who,
if he determines that the request can be granted consistent with the
continuance of the proper police protection to the inhabitants of the city, and
after consultation with the chief of police, shall direct the chief of police
to furnish the number of officers requested and to arrange their transportation
to the requesting municipality. (1990 Code § 13-304)
5-1-4: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Complete Record Required:
      1.   All personal property which comes into the possession of any police
officer, which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a
criminal, and which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto,
is, by the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of
the chief of police.
      2.   The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold. (1990 Code § 13-501)
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Property: Any unclaimed personal property,
other than animals, which remains in the possession of the chief of police,
unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not to him satisfactorily established,
for a period of more than thirty (30) days or as provided by law, shall be
sold, or disposed of in the manner required by law, except such personal
property as in the opinion of the mayor can be more advantageously used by some
department or office of the city government. (1990 Code § 13-502)
   C.   Property Found By Private Person: Any personal property found by a
person other than a public official or employee, which is delivered to any
police officer for identification, if not claimed or identified within thirty
(30) days or as provided by law, shall, within ten (10) additional days
thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him, and a record of
such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return of the
property to him within such additional ten (10) days, then the chief of police
shall sell the property in the manner required by law as if it had been found
by a public official or employee, or, on instruction by the mayor, deliver it
to some department or office of the city government for its use. (1990 Code §
13-503)
   D.   Recovery By Owner: If any property is sold as herein provided, and the
owner thereof takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the
amount paid therefor is returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being
submitted and approved by the city council. (1990 Code § 13-504)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Department Established; Duties
5-2-2: Fire Chief; Assistant Chief
5-2-3: Company Officers
5-2-4: Secretary-Treasurer
5-2-5: New Members; Probation
5-2-6: Bylaws; Rules And Regulations
5-2-7: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
5-2-8: Fire Protection Outside City Limits
5-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; DUTIES:
   A.   Definition: The term "volunteer firefighter" means one who is enrolled
as a member of the volunteer fire department of the city and who serves in that
capacity without receiving a regular salary. The size of the volunteer fire
department of the city is composed of not less than twelve (12) nor more than
twenty (20) members.
   B.   Department Established; Chief: There is a fire department, the head of
which is the chief of the fire department.
   C.   Duties, Generally: It is the duty of the fire department, among others,
to extinguish fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate and
to administer first aid to persons injured in or about burning structures, or
elsewhere in case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless
otherwise provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire
prevention, and safety of persons from fire in public and private buildings.
   D.   Residency Requirement: To be a member of the city fire department, the
firefighter must live within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the nearest fire
station or have a response time of not more than two (2) minutes. Any member
not complying with this subsection will be terminated. (1990 Code § 13-201)
5-2-2: FIRE CHIEF; ASSISTANT CHIEF:
   A.   Administration; Duties Of Fire Chief: The chief is the administrative
head of the department, subject to the laws of the state, ordinances of the
city, and the rules and regulations adopted in this chapter. The chief shall
have the following powers and duties, and he may assign duties to other members
of the department:
      1.   The chief is responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and control of the
fire department, subject to the supervision and control of the city.
      2.   The chief may inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
      3.   The chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department.
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case.
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found.
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the city council as it may require. The
chief shall keep the city council informed regarding the fire department and
its needs. (1990 Code § 13-202)
   B.   Duties Of Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant
chief on duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in
all respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the chief. (1990 Code
§ 13-203)
5-2-3: COMPANY OFFICERS:
Company officers of the volunteer department are selected by the chief based
upon the following criteria:
   A.   Knowledge of firefighting;
   B.   Leadership ability; and
   C.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1990 Code § 13-204)
5-2-4: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
One member elected by the members of the volunteer fire department is a
secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
   A.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   B.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
   C.   Collecting any monies due the department by the members. (1990 Code §
13-205)
5-2-5: NEW MEMBERS; PROBATION:
New members of the volunteer department are on probation for one year after
their appointment. Upon completion of their probation period, new volunteer
members must be approved by the majority of the other members of the fire
department, the chief, and the mayor and city council. (1990 Code § 13-206)
5-2-6: BYLAWS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Bylaws Of Department: The bylaws of the volunteer department shall
include the following:
      1.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified,
to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
      2.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
      3.   At least one regular business meeting of the members is held each
month. (1990 Code § 13-207)
      4.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be expelled from
the fire department rolls.
      5.   Any members leaving the city for an extended period of time is
required to notify the chief.
      6.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the department will be expelled from the rolls.
      7.   Any member of the fire department may be expelled from the rolls for
the following offenses: (1990 Code § 13-207; amd. 2004 Code)
         a.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         b.   Any act of insubordination;
         c.   Neglect of duty;
         d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
         e.   Conviction of a felony;
         f.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of
the city council; or
         g.   Noncompliance with subsection 5-2-1D of this chapter. (1990 Code
§ 13-207)
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The city council, by motion or resolution, may
adopt and change regulations relating to the fire department, its organization,
operation and compensation. (1990 Code § 13-208)
5-2-7: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person wilfully, and without proper authority, take away or
conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the department. (1990 Code §
13-209)
5-2-8: FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Contracts Authorized: The city is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations or associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection outside the corporate limits of the city, and to contract to provide
fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of
the state. (1990 Code § 13-210)
   B.   Contract Terms, Fees For Service: Any contract entered into by the city
with an individual owner, firm, private corporation, or association, for
outside aid, or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment
by the owner, firm, private corporation, or association, or political
subdivision to the city for such fire apparatus and personnel at the rate per
call as set by the city council. All monies received from the calls shall go
into the general fund. (1990 Code § 13-211)
   C.   Authority To Answer Calls: The fire department of the city is hereby
authorized and directed to answer all outside calls outside the corporate city
limits in the discretion of the fire chief. The fire department may not answer
such outside calls if, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to
do so on account of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or
dangerous highways, or other physical conditions. (1990 Code § 13-212)
   D.   Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty: All volunteer
firefighters of the fire department of the city attending and serving at fires
or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of the city, as
herein provided, are considered as serving in their regular line of duty as
fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the city. The
firefighters are entitled to all the benefits of any fire pension and relief
fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was
being done within the corporate limits of the city. Compensation of
firefighters is as provided by the city. (1990 Code § 13-213)
   E.   Department Considered Agent Of State: The fire department of the city
answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire prevention services
outside the corporate limits of the city is considered as an agent of the state
and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the city shall not
be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or negligence while
answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of this subsection. (1990 Code § 13-214)
ARTICLE A. FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: Response To Alarms
5-2A-3: Charges For Excessive False Alarms
5-2A-4: Provision Of Current Address For Alarm System Users
5-2A-5: Duties Of The Alarm User
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, certain words and phrases shall be defined as
specified below:
ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical, electrical or other device that is arranged,
designed or used to signal the occurrence in the City of a fire requiring
urgent attention and to which fire personnel are expected to respond ("fire
alarm system"). Alarm systems include those through which fire personnel are
notified directly or indirectly by way of a third party which monitors alarm
systems and reports such signals to the Fire Department, or those designed to
register a signal which is audible, visible or in other ways perceptible
outside a protected building, structure or facility so as to notify persons in
the neighborhood beyond the lot where the signal is located who in turn may
notify the Fire Department of the signal. Alarm systems do not include those
affixed to automobiles or auxiliary devices installed by telephone companies to
protect telephone equipment or systems which might be damaged or disrupted by
the use of an alarm system. Alarms in separate structures or locations are to
be counted as separate systems even though owned, leased, contracted for or
controlled by the same person or entity.
ALARM USER: Any person or entity that purchases, leases, contracts for or
otherwise obtains and operates an alarm system installed by an alarm/security
company.
FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal eliciting a response by the Fire Department when a
situation requiring a response by the Fire Department does not in fact exist.
False alarm does not include an alarm signal caused by conditions of nature or
other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the
alarm system operator or alarm system customer, except when such alarm signal
would have been prevented by the installation of a battery back-up or other
normally used device(s) in the system. As specifically provided in subsection
5-2A-3A of this article, the fire personnel on the scene shall make a
determination as to whether a false alarm has occurred and in making such
determination, shall consider whether the response was caused by the following
factors, which may, depending upon the exact circumstances that resulted in the
response, support a determination that a false alarm has not occurred:
   A.   A response resulting from criminal activity or unauthorized entry;
   B.   A response resulting from an actual fire;
   C.   A response resulting from a telephone or cable line cut or malfunction,
verified in writing to the City by at least a first-line telephone or cable
company supervisor;
   D.   A response resulting from electrical service interruption, verified in
writing to the City by the local power company, however, if a battery back-up
being present in the alarm system would have prevented the response by the Fire
Department, then a response in such circumstance would still be a false alarm.
   E.   A response resulting from an alarm caused by a report given by an
individual on the reasonable but mistaken belief that a fire emergency is in
progress;
   F.   A response resulting from alarms generated during a grace period not
longer than thirty (30) days during the original installation or during
substantial modifications to an alarm system (verified by alarm system
installer).
RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUAL: An individual who is able and has agreed to:
   A.   Receive notification of an alarm system activation at any time;
   B.   Respond to the alarm site within thirty (30) minutes at any time; and
   C.   Grant access to the alarm site and deactivate the alarm system upon
request. (Ord. 752, 6-5-2017)
5-2A-2: RESPONSE TO ALARMS:
   A.   Whenever an alarm is activated and an emergency response to the
location is made by fire personnel, the fire personnel on the scene of the
activated alarm system shall inspect the area protected by the system and shall
determine whether the alarm signal was a false alarm.
   B.   If the Fire Department personnel at the scene of the activated alarm
system determine the alarm to be false, such personnel shall make a report of
the false alarm and shall issue the notice described in this article. (Ord.
752, 6-5-2017)
5-2A-3: CHARGES FOR EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   The fire personnel on the scene at the scene, or subsequently the
designee of the Chief of the Fire Department, shall provide written notice to
the alarm system user on each false alarm at a given location. The notification
may take the form of a written report left at the location of the alarm. The
written report shall advise the alarm user of the following: It is the alarm
user's responsibility to take proper corrective action to reduce false alarms;
the false alarm charge as provided in this article; and, that on the fourth and
subsequent false alarm at the same location during each calendar year the alarm
user will be billed as provided in this article.
   B.   Upon the fourth and upon each subsequent false alarm at the same
location during any calendar year period, the notice provided for in subsection
A of this section shall include notice of the assessment of the following
charge applicable to the fourth and applicable to each subsequent false alarm
at the same location during a calendar year period, i.e., five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each such false alarm.
   C.   Additional to any notice provided pursuant to subsections A and B of
this section, a copy of any notice issued pursuant to subsection B of this
section shall be provided to the alarm system user at any address for the alarm
system user provided by the alarm system company which installed or which
provides maintenance or other services for the alarm system user.
   D.   Within ten (10) days of receipt of any notice provided for in this
section, including the notice of charge for false alarm provided for in
subsections B and C of this section, the alarm system user shall have the right
to a hearing at which the alarm system user may produce any information to
indicate that the determination of false alarm or the determination of charge
for false alarm is improper. In addition, the alarm system user may request a
hearing to submit proof that the defect in the alarm system which caused the
false alarm has been repaired and, with such proof, to request a waiver of the
charge. A request for hearing regarding a false alarm responded to by the Fire
Department shall be presented to the Fire Chief or to his or her designee.
Within five (5) days of receipt of such request for hearing, the applicable
Chief, or his or her designee, shall advise the alarm system user of a time and
place for the hearing. The Hearing Officer shall determine the false alarm and
charge issues and, in addition, upon submission of proof that the faulty
equipment causing the false alarm has been repaired so that the system is in
proper working order, may waive the charge. Within five (5) days following the
hearing, the Chief, or the Chief's designee, shall issue a notice to the alarm
system user of the final determination of the City regarding the matter.
   E.   After reasonable efforts have been made to collect from the alarm
system user the charge referred to in subsection B of this section, the Mayor
or his or her designated agent, shall be authorized to refer any unpaid account
of thirty (30) or more days to a collection entity or attorney for the purpose
of filing an action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction to collect the
unpaid charges. (Ord. 752, 6-5-2017)
5-2A-4: PROVISION OF CURRENT ADDRESS FOR ALARM SYSTEM USERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, which has installed or
which provides maintenance or other services for an alarm system owned by an
alarm system user, to refuse to provide a current address for any alarm system
user to the Fire Department upon written request. The Fire Department,
including the department's dispatch center, shall not request or obtain alarm
system user information except when needed by the Fire Department while
responding to, or at the scene of an alarm.
   B.   Any person or entity determined to have violated the provisions of
subsection A of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 752, 6-5-2017)
5-2A-5: DUTIES OF THE ALARM USER:
   A.   Each alarm user shall:
      1.   Maintain the alarm site and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarms;
      2.   Make every reasonable effort to have a responsible individual
available at the alarm site within thirty (30) minutes after an alarm dispatch
request; and
      3.   Not activate an alarm system for any reason other than an occurrence
of an event that the alarm system was intended to report. (Ord. 752, 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL DEFENSE
ARTICLE A. CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Purpose Of Organization
5-3A-2: Definitions
5-3A-3: Office Of Civil Defense Created
5-3A-4: Director Of Civil Defense, Powers And Duties
5-3A-5: Nonliability For Personal Injury Or Property Damage
5-3A-6: Loans, Gifts, Grants To Civil Defense
5-3A-7: Proclamation Of Emergency
5-3A-8: Penalty
5-3A-1: PURPOSE OF ORGANIZATION:
The purpose of this article is to create a civil defense organization for the
city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of such
civil defense organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto. (1990 Code § 13-401)
5-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be construed as follows,
unless a contrary intent appears clear from the context:
CIVIL DEFENSE: The preparations for, and the carrying out of, all emergency
functions, other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to protect public
peace, health, and safety and to preserve lives and property in the city during
any emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action,
or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm, or
other catastrophe in or near the city and involving imminent or actual peril to
life and property in the city. These functions include administration,
organization, planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare
service, relief service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue
service, medical service, health service, transportation service,
communications service, street and sewer service, utilities service, general
engineering service, plant protection service, supply service, mutual aid,
mobile support, evacuation, and all other functions necessary or incidental to
the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
ENEMY CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States,
and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the city. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the mayor of the city so declares by public
proclamation, or when the city council so declares. Such emergency shall be
deemed to continue to exist until the mayor declares its termination by public
proclamation, or until the city council declares its termination by resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or
near the city. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated
under the same conditions as are prescribed for an enemy caused emergency. Such
emergency shall be deemed to continue to exist until the mayor declares its
termination by public proclamation, or until the city council declares its
termination by resolution. (1990 Code § 13-401)
5-3A-3: OFFICE OF CIVIL DEFENSE CREATED:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city an office of civil defense, which shall consist of:
   A.   Director Of Civil Defense: A director of civil defense who shall be
appointed by the mayor of the city and serve at his pleasure. The director may
also be the county director of civil defense.
   B.   Civil Defense Advisory Committee: A civil defense advisory committee.
This committee consists of the mayor as chairman and eight (8) members of the
city council appointed by the mayor and serving at his pleasure. The committee
shall select from its members a vice chairman and secretary. Except as
otherwise provided in this article, the committee shall function in an advisory
capacity on all matters pertaining to civil defense. The committee members
shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Other Advisory Committees: Such other volunteer civil defense advisory
committees as may be created by the director for the evaluation of technical,
professional, or other phases of the work of the office of civil defense and
which may provide advisory assistance on any matters pertaining to the city's
civil defense. (1990 Code § 13-402)
5-3A-4: DIRECTOR OF CIVIL DEFENSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Executive Powers: The director of civil defense shall be the executive
head of the office of civil defense, and shall be responsible to the mayor for
carrying out the civil defense program of the city. He shall have all necessary
power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and
designate the chairman or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to
perfect such an organization. He shall coordinate the activities of all
organizations for civil defense within the city and shall maintain liaison with
and cooperate with civil defense agencies of other governmental units, both
within and without the state, including the state and federal government. He
shall have such additional authority, duties and responsibilities as may be
authorized by this article or other law. (1990 Code § 13-403)
   B.   Further Powers And Duties: The director shall have general direction
and control of the office of civil defense. He is further authorized to
formulate written plans and gather information and keep written records thereof
to govern the functions of the civil defense organization. He is also
instructed to carry out plans with the state officials of civil defense in
cooperating with the federal government and to make available to the city and
county program the benefits of public law 85-606, subject to the approval of
the city, the county, and civil defense committee. The director shall be
responsible for carrying out the provisions of this article and in doing so he
is expressly authorized to cooperate with federal and state government agencies
and political subdivisions, and with other states and their subdivisions, and
with private agencies, in all matters pertaining to civil defense in the city.
(1990 Code § 13-404)
5-3A-5: NONLIABILITY FOR PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE:
Neither the city nor any officer or member of the civil defense organization
provided for in this article shall be liable for personal injury or property
damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer civil defense
worker or member of any agency engaged in civil defense activity prior to or
during either an enemy caused or a natural emergency. Neither the city nor any
such officer nor a member shall be liable for the death or injury of any
person, or damage to property, resulting from such civil defense activity prior
to or during either an enemy caused or a natural emergency. (1990 Code § 13-
405)
5-3A-6: LOANS, GIFTS, GRANTS TO CIVIL DEFENSE:
Whenever the federal government or the state or any person, firm or corporation
shall offer to the city any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds
by way of gift, grant or loan, for purposes of civil defense, the mayor may
accept such offer and may authorize the director of civil defense to receive
the same subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if
any, of the offeror. (1990 Code § 13-406)
5-3A-7: PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Authority Of Mayor: Whenever the mayor, or in the event of his
inability to act, the president of the city council, determines that an
emergency exists due to national or energy caused emergencies within the city,
he shall have power to impose by proclamation any regulations necessary to
preserve the peace and order of the city.
   B.   Notice To Council: After proclamation of an emergency, or any order
thereunder, the mayor or other person authorized to do so under this article
shall forthwith provide for notice thereof to be given to members of the
council.
   C.   Powers Enumerated: In the event an emergency is proclaimed under the
provisions of this article, the mayor shall have the power and authority to:
      1.   Impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city thereby
requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove
themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks or other public places;
provided, however, that physicians, nurses and ambulance operators performing
medical services, firefighters and city authorized or requested law enforcement
officers and personnel may be exempted from such curfew. No person who is not a
resident of the city, as evidenced by a current address on his driver's license
or other valid identification, shall be arrested or prosecuted for violation of
a curfew without first being given a reasonable opportunity to continue through
or otherwise leave the area which is under a state of emergency. Any person who
is given a reasonable opportunity to leave such area and does not do so is
subject to arrest and prosecution.
      2.   Order the closing of any business establishments anywhere within the
city for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not be
limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt beverages, gasoline
or firearms.
      3.   Designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas
closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic.
      4.   Call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the city to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the city.
      5.   Issue such other orders as are necessary for the protection of life
and property or to bring the emergency under control.
   D.   Proclamation Effective Upon Notice To News Media: The proclamation of
emergency provided for by this article shall become effective upon its issuance
and dissemination to the public by appropriate news media.
   E.   Curfew Or Order Amended Or Rescinded: A curfew or order authorized by
this article may be amended or rescinded in like manner by the mayor or other
authorized person during the pendency of the emergency, but shall cease to be
in effect upon the declaration by the mayor or his lawful designee that the
emergency no longer exists, or when superseded by action of the city council.
(1990 Code § 13-407)
5-3A-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article in the city or who
shall fail to carry out any of the provisions of this article or to comply
therewith or with any of the orders, rules, or regulations made under the
authority hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 13-408)
ARTICLE B. CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Authority; Citation
5-3B-2: Definitions
5-3B-3: Designation And Qualifications Of Successors
5-3B-4: Form For Making Designations
5-3B-5: Filing And Distribution Of Copies Of Designations
5-3B-6: Oath Of Office Of Designated Successors
5-3B-7: Powers And Duties Of Designated Successors
5-3B-8: Removal Or Replacement Of Designated Successors
5-3B-9: Determination Of Disputes
5-3B-1: AUTHORITY; CITATION:
This article is enacted pursuant to the Oklahoma constitution section 63 of
article V, and 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections 685.1 through 685.11, and may be
cited as the EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION ORDINANCE. (1990 Code § 13-420)
5-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise clearly required by the context, as used in this article:
ATTACK: Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means, or other weapons or processes.
DEPUTY: A person legally authorized by an officer to exercise the office or
right which the official possesses, for and in place of the latter.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to law and this
article, in the event the officer is unavailable, to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and
qualifies as may be provided by the constitution, statutes and ordinances, or
until the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the powers and
discharge the duties of the office.
OFFICER: Means and includes all officers of the city, the powers and duties of
whom are defined by the ordinances of the city. It includes the mayor and each
other council member, the municipal judge, and the head or director of each
administrative department (director of finance, city attorney, chief of police,
fire chief, etc.), and all other city personnel who are declared by ordinance
to be officers or who are required thereby to take an oath of office.
UNAVAILABLE: Means either that a vacancy in office exists and there is no
deputy authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the
office, or that the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy
exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a
vacancy) is absent or unable to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of
the office. (1990 Code § 13-421)
5-3B-3: DESIGNATION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF SUCCESSORS:
   A.   Emergency Interim Successors: Each city officer, subject to such
regulations as the mayor (or other official authorized pursuant to this article
to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office of mayor) may
issue, shall designate, in addition to any deputy, by the title of their
offices or positions, emergency interim successors and specify their order of
succession. The officer shall review and revise, as necessary, designations
made pursuant to this section to ensure their current status. The officer may
designate a sufficient number of such emergency interim successors so that
there will be not less than three (3) nor more than seven (7) deputies or
emergency interim successors, or any combination thereof, at any time.
   B.   Qualifications: Persons designated by the mayor, other council members,
the municipal judge and the city attorney as their respective emergency interim
successors need not be officers or employees of the city, but such persons must
be qualified for the respective offices for which they are designated. (1990
Code § 13-422)
5-3B-4: FORM FOR MAKING DESIGNATIONS:
The city attorney shall prepare a form which city officers may use in
designating persons to be their respective emergency interim successors. The
city clerk shall furnish any city officer a reasonable number of copies of such
form as often as he may need and request them. (1990 Code § 13-423)
5-3B-5: FILING AND DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES OF DESIGNATIONS:
Each city officer shall file with the city clerk a copy of the document making
or changing designations of emergency interim successors. The mayor may require
the city clerk to furnish copies of such documents to any other designated
officer or officers of the city. (1990 Code § 13-424)
5-3B-6: OATH OF OFFICE OF DESIGNATED SUCCESSORS:
At the time of their designation, or as soon thereafter as practicable,
emergency interim successors shall take the oath of office. Notwithstanding any
provision of law or of ordinance relative to a prerequisite to the exercise of
the powers and duties of an office to which he succeeds, no person shall be
required to comply with any other such provision relative to taking office.
(1990 Code § 13-425)
5-3B-7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DESIGNATED SUCCESSORS:
   A.   Performance Of Duties: In the event that any city officer is
unavailable following an attack, and in the event a deputy, if any, is also
unavailable, the powers of his office shall be exercised and the duties of his
office shall be discharged by his designated emergency interim successors in
the order specified. The authority of an emergency successor shall cease when
the incumbent of the office, or a deputy, or an interim successor higher in
designation becomes available to exercise the powers and to perform the duties
of the office or when a successor to the office has been duly elected or
appointed and has qualified according to ordinance.
   B.   Extent Of Authority: Emergency interim successors are empowered to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of offices as herein authorized
only after an attack upon the United States has occurred. The city council, by
resolution, may at any time terminate the authority of emergency interim
successors. (1990 Code § 13-426)
5-3B-8: REMOVAL OR REPLACEMENT OF DESIGNATED SUCCESSORS:
Until such time as the persons designated as emergency interim successors are
authorized to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of an office in
accordance with this article, they may be removed or replaced by the
designating authority at any time, with or without cause. (1990 Code § 13-427)
5-3B-9: DETERMINATION OF DISPUTES:
Any dispute concerning a question of fact arising under this article with
respect to an office in the administrative branch of the city government shall
be adjudicated by the mayor (or other official authorized under this article to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office of mayor), and his
decision shall be final. Such disputes with respect to the offices of mayor,
other council members and the municipal judge shall be determined by the
district court. (1990 Code § 13-428)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES IN GENERAL; PENALTY
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Attempts To Commit Offense
5-4A-2: Aiding In Offense
5-4A-3: Penalty
5-4A-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (1990 Code § 10-101)
5-4A-2: AIDING IN OFFENSE 1 :
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1990 Code § 10-102)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4-1C of this code.
5-4A-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 10-701)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Petty Larceny
5-4B-2: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
5-4B-3: Injuring Buildings And Other Property
5-4B-4: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
5-4B-5: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
5-4B-6: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
5-4B-7: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
5-4B-8: Illegal Entry
5-4B-9: Depositing Handbills, Advertisements On Streets
5-4B-10: Throwing Injurious Substances
5-4B-11: Injuring Public Streets, Trees And Plants
5-4B-12: Trespass Prohibited
5-4B-13: Parking On Property Of Another
5-4B-14: Interfering With Fire Hydrants
5-4B-15: Destroying Lawful Signs
5-4B-1: PETTY LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: "Petty larceny" is the taking of personal property of value
not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with
intent to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such
property from the "person" of another.
   B.   Prohibited Act: Petty larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits
larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code § 10-201)
5-4B-2: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1990
Code § 10-202)
5-4B-3: INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (1990 Code § 10-203)
5-4B-4: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to post, paint, mark, write or print any sign,
poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill, placard, device or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle or other property of another, without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof. (1990 Code § 10-204)
5-4B-5: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private). An exception to this
section is where the prohibited acts are done in defense of oneself, of another
person or of property. (1990 Code § 10-205)
5-4B-6: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water, cable or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly
or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the
gas, water, cable service or electricity without it passing through the meter
or any other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any
person to damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter,
or other part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone
system. (1990 Code § 10-206)
5-4B-7: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 10-207)
5-4B-8: ILLEGAL ENTRY:
It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entry is plainly forbidden by signs or any notice
or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such entrance
is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is unlawful
for any person to remain on the property of another after having been given
notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge. (1990
Code § 10-208)
5-4B-9: DEPOSITING HANDBILLS, ADVERTISEMENTS ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter. (1990 Code § 10-209)
5-4B-10: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (1990 Code § 10-210)
5-4B-11: INJURING PUBLIC STREETS, TREES AND PLANTS:
   A.   Plants And Trees: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without
authority cut, pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants,
shrubs or trees growing in or around any park or public street within the city,
or wilfully or without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure
or destroy any gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully
injure or destroy any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such
park or ground. Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense. (1990 Code § 10-211)
   B.   Public Streets And Trees:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
         b.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
         c.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the city;
         d.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city, or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
         e.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city inspector so to do.
      2.   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done
under the supervision of the city. (1990 Code § 10-212)
   C.   Injurious Substances On Streets: It is unlawful and an offense for any
person to purposely or wantonly place, throw or cause to be placed or thrown,
in or upon any thoroughfare in the city, any broken glass, tacks, nails, pieces
of iron, bottles, or other substances or things that might cut or puncture any
pneumatic tire when passing over the same or cause injury to persons or
animals. (1990 Code § 10-216)
5-4B-12: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
"Trespassing" is hereby declared to be an offense, and shall be defined as
follows:
   A.   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another person's real
property, public or private, without the owner's or occupant's consent thereof,
whether expressed or implied.
   B.   Each and every entry upon any public or private premises which is
posted or where warning has been published to stay out of and off the premises.
   C.   Each and every entry in or upon any public property, except at times
and upon conditions when the same is subject to public use.
   D.   The use of any public building, except for the purpose of transacting
business with a public corporation, unless the manner, purpose and extent of
its use is first presented to, and the consent given by, the city council.
   E.   Remaining upon the premises of another, whether public or private, and
refusing to leave the premises forthwith after demand by the owner or occupant.
   F.   Remaining upon any property owned by or in the possession of the public
school system or any parochial school in the city after such person has been
requested to leave and vacate such school premises by any faculty member,
principal, duly licensed security guard, or police officer unless permission
therefor has been given by a faculty member, principal, or designated school
employee.
   G.   Remaining on private property at any time other than during posted
hours of business operation after having been directed to vacate such premises
by a police officer; provided, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such premises is
authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises;
nor shall the provisions of this subsection apply unless hours of business
operation are posted upon such premises.
   H.   "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this subsection. (1990 Code § 10-213)
5-4B-13: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance. (1990 Code § 10-214)
5-4B-14: INTERFERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Opening; Interference: It is unlawful for any person, except one duly
authorized by the city utility personnel or a member of the fire department, to
open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with, any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the city.
   B.   Obstructing Access: It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to
any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing, or in any other manner obstruct access to a fire hydrant. (1990 Code §
10-215)
5-4B-15: DESTROYING LAWFUL SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any person to tear down, deface or cover up any posted
advertisement, sign or bill of any person when the same is lawfully posted and
put up, and during the time such sign or advertisement shall be valid, without
the consent of the owner of the property where posted. (1990 Code § 10-217)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC, PEACE
SECTION:
5-4C-1: Disturbing The Peace
5-4C-2: Assault And Battery
5-4C-3: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
5-4C-4: Weapons; Firearms; Air Rifles And BB Guns
5-4C-5: Loud Noise, Music, Amplified Sound
5-4C-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful to alarm or disturb the peace of another or
others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Acts Enumerated: Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (1990 Code § 10-301)
5-4C-2: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Definitions:
   ASSAULT: Any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer with force or
violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: Any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another, or the making of any physical contact with another
without consent.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the jurisdiction of the city. Any person committing an assault
or an assault and battery within the jurisdiction of the city shall be guilty
of an offense. (1990 Code § 10-501)
5-4C-3: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   Signs: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
city to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which, in its common
acceptance, is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the city, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   B.   Literature, Language: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use,
utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or
insulting language or literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (1990 Code § 10-302)
5-4C-4: WEAPONS; FIREARMS; AIR RIFLES AND BB GUNS:
   A.   Carrying Weapons; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person to carry
concealed upon or about his person any pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife,
dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring type knife, metal knuckle, or any other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, except when doing so in line of duty
or as may be permitted by law. (1990 Code § 10-305)
   B.   Reckless Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such
actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability
of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious
disregard for the safety of another person. (1990 Code § 10-306)
   C.   Discharging Firearms; Exceptions: No person shall discharge any species
of firearm in the city, except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully
doing so in defense of oneself, of another person, or of property, or when
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance.
   D.   Air Rifles; BB Guns; Exception: It is unlawful to discharge a rifle,
firearm or BB gun in the city, except as authorized by state law or by
ordinance. (1990 Code § 10-307)
5-4C-5: LOUD NOISE, MUSIC, AMPLIFIED SOUND:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or
words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. (1990 Code § 10-308)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
5-4D-1: Liquor And Drug Related Offenses
5-4D-1-1: Permitting Or Allowing Gatherings Where Alcohol Is Served To Minors
5-4D-2: Gambling
5-4D-3: Prostitution
5-4D-4: Disorderly Houses
5-4D-5: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
5-4D-6: Obscene Materials, Conduct
5-4D-7: Vagrancy
5-4D-8: Sleeping In Public
5-4D-9: Begging
5-4D-10: Harmful Deception
5-4D-11: False Or Bogus Checks
5-4D-12: Swindling
5-4D-1: LIQUOR AND DRUG RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Public Intoxication And Drinking:
      1.   For the purposes of this subsection, a "state of intoxication" means
the condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, low point beer, or of any narcotic or drug,
to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental
power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place in the city in a state of intoxication. (1990 Code
§ 10-401; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Possession; Alcoholic Beverages And Low Point Beer:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section "intoxicating beverage"
and "low point beer" shall be as defined in title 3, chapter 2, including
article A, of this code.
      2.   Possession By Underage Persons:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to be in possession of any intoxicating beverage or low point beer while
such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place
within the city limits.
         b.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage. (1990 Code § 10-402; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Intoxicating Liquors; Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or low point beer of any kind, except as
permitted by law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or
low point beer, except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner
convey from place to place in the city any intoxicating liquor or low point
beer, except as permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor or low point beer is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating liquor or low point beer is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law. (1990 Code § 10-403; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Marijuana Prohibited:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection D, "marijuana" shall
have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101. "Drug
paraphernalia" shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-101, including the factors to determine in 63 Oklahoma Statutes
section 2-101.1.
      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
         a.   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana;
         b.   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
         c.   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the city while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
      3.   Exception: This subsection D shall not apply to any marijuana
lawfully obtained or authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed
physician while acting in the course of his professional practice. (1990 Code §
10-404)
5-4D-1-1: PERMITTING OR ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE ALCOHOL IS SERVED TO MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other
substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point beer" as
defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
   MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place or premises,
including any commercial or business premises.
   B.   Consumption Of Alcohol By Minor In Public Place Open To The Public, Or
Place Not Open To Public:
      1.   Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
         a.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any public place or any place
open to the public;
         b.   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any place not open to the
public, unless that minor is being supervised by his or her parent or legal
guardian, or is participating in a religious service with a parent or guardian;
or
         c.   Host, permit, or allow a party, gathering, or event where minors
consuming alcoholic beverages are permitted.
            (1)   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises
to host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place and to allow any minor to
consume an alcoholic beverage while present at said gathering. Reasonable steps
to prevent the consumption of alcohol by a minor at such a gathering must be
taken, and include, limiting access to alcoholic beverages at the gathering;
controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the gathering;
verifying the age of the persons attending the gathering by inspecting driver's
licenses or other government issued identification cards; and supervising the
activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 691, 11-3-2008)
5-4D-2: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         a.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         b.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         c.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         d.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value. (1990 Code § 10-415)
   B.   Frequenting Gambling Places: It is unlawful for any person to be about
in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether by
playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (1990
Code § 10-416)
5-4D-3: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
   LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      6.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of city. (1990 Code § 10-405)
5-4D-4: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Definition: A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by
which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed
by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer, containing more than one- half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (1990 Code § 10-406)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house; no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (1990 Code §
10-407)
   C.   Residents And Visitors: No person shall knowingly reside in, enter
into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for violation of this
subsection, the city shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct
evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This subsection shall not
apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their professional or
official duties. (1990 Code § 10-408)
5-4D-5: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (1990 Code § 10-
409)
5-4D-6: OBSCENE MATERIALS, CONDUCT:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms when used in the section shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion;
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1990 Code § 10-410)
   B.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
         b.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         c.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         d.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            (1)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            (3)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            (4)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      2.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not
acting as director or manager of the theater. (1990 Code § 10-411)
5-4D-7: VAGRANCY:
It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the city. For the purposes of
this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains in or wanders
about, a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   A.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
   B.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution
or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
   C.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
   D.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
   E.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
   F.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
   G.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (1990
Code § 10-412)
5-4D-8: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., to sleep on any street, in any other
public place, or on any property of another without the express or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge of such place. (1990 Code § 10-413)
5-4D-9: BEGGING:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency, except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1990 Code § 10-414)
5-4D-10: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1990 Code § 10-417)
5-4D-11: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument
or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or
orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is
delivered and accepted. (1990 Code § 10-418)
5-4D-12: SWINDLING:
It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act. (1990 Code § 10-419)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-4E-1: Resisting Or Eluding Police Officer, Public Official
5-4E-2: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
5-4E-3: Assault Or Battery Upon Police, Other Officer
5-4E-4: Offenses Relating To Prisoners
5-4E-5: Impersonating Officer Or Employee
5-4E-6: False Alarms
5-4E-7: False Representation To Officer
5-4E-8: Removal Of Barricades
5-4E-1: RESISTING OR ELUDING POLICE OFFICER, PUBLIC OFFICIAL:
   A.   Resisting Police Officer:
      1.   Definitions:
    OBSTRUCTION OF: This term shall, in addition to its common meaning,
include:
         a.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
         b.   Any violence toward, or any resistance or opposition to, the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he is under arrest; or
         c.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his
identity known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
      2.   Resisting Police Prohibited: It is unlawful to resist, oppose or
assault, or in any way interfere with, a police officer or any person duly
authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is discharging or
attempting to discharge his official duties within the limits of the city.
      3.   Aid In Escape Or Eluding Police Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee,
escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar
or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching
officer. (1990 Code § 10-601)
   B.   Resisting Public Official: It is unlawful for any person knowingly or
wilfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (1990 Code §
10-610)
   C.   Eluding Police Officer: Any operator of a motor vehicle who has
received a visual and audible signal, a red light and a siren or a siren only
from a police officer driving a motor vehicle showing the same to be an
official police vehicle, directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop,
and who wilfully increases his speed or extinguishes his lights in an attempt
to elude such police officer, or who does elude such police officer, is guilty
of an offense. (1990 Code § 10-611)
5-4E-2: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   Authority To Request Assistance: An officer of the city making or about
to make an arrest, or executing or about to execute a warrant or other process,
in accordance with the ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly may call
upon a person or persons to assist him in making such arrest, executing such
process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   Failure To Assist: It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon
thus to assist an officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (1990 Code §
10-602)
5-4E-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE, OTHER OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (1990 Code § 10-603)
5-4E-4: OFFENSES RELATING TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Rescuing Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or
prisoners, from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the
same or from the city jail or other place of confinement by the city, or to
assist such prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either
before or after conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(1990 Code § 10-604)
   B.   Escape Of Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person confined in the city
jail or other place of confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or
other public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held
in legal custody by authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from
any such jail, prison or custody. (1990 Code § 10-605)
5-4E-5: IMPERSONATING OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (1990
Code § 10-606)
5-4E-6: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency, or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (1990 Code § 10-607)
5-4E-7: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (1990 Code § 10-608)
5-4E-8: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (1990 Code § 10-609)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
ARTICLE A. CURFEW
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Findings
5-5A-2: Purpose And Intent
5-5A-3: Definitions
5-5A-4: Failure To Comply
5-5A-5: Defense To Prosecution
5-5A-6: Enforcement
5-5A-7: Penalties
5-5A-1: FINDINGS:
The city council hereby makes the following findings:
   A.   The city has a compelling governmental interest in restricting certain
late night activities of juveniles in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of juveniles and other persons and their property.
   B.   The occurrence of juvenile crime has continued to substantially
increase over the past several years.
   C.   The intent of this article is to narrowly tailor the restriction of
late night activities of juveniles to the extent juvenile crime and violence is
reduced and juveniles as well as other citizens and their property are
protected from harm.
   D.   Juveniles are particularly vulnerable to the influence of persons who
do not have the best interest of the juvenile in mind, due to the inability of
juveniles to make important or critical decisions in an informed and mature
manner and to avoid choices that could be detrimental to their health, safety
or welfare.
   E.   The city and many public spirited citizens have expended a great deal
of time and energy in trying to deter criminal conduct, assist parents and
protect juveniles.
   F.   A concern has arisen in the community that certain activities by
juveniles during the night hours endanger the health, safety, and welfare of
other persons and their property.
   G.   The city does not desire to interfere with the parent-child or parent-
juvenile relationship or the parental right to raise their children or
juveniles.
   H.   While the city recognizes parents and/or responsible adults need wide
latitude in supervising their children, the city desires to protect juveniles
from nocturnal dangers and encourage parental responsibility.
   I.   The city desires to assist the state of Oklahoma in the effective
communication and documentation of juvenile offenses, the prevention of
juvenile crime, the prevention of child and juvenile abduction, and the
adoption of programs to assist in the welfare, development, and counseling of
juveniles. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The public purpose of this article is to protect juveniles from nocturnal
dangers, enhance parental supervision and responsibility for juveniles and
protect the public at large. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CURFEW HOURS:
   A.   Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; and
   B.   Twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
Friday or Saturday.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN:
   A.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
juvenile; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by a
court.
JUVENILE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
KNOWINGLY PERMIT: The "parent", other "responsible adult" and/or "operator" as
defined herein is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the curfew
hours or that said person, by exercise of reasonable care, would have known
that the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and retail establishments.
REMAIN:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or
the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
RESPONSIBLE ADULT: Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent and/or
temporary care and/or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
   B.   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
   C.   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by order
of a court;
   D.   Any adult who has, assumes, or is charged with, the care and/or custody
of a juvenile at the request of, or on behalf of, a parent, guardian, loco
parentis or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court;
   E.   Any adult who has, assumes, or is charged with, the care and/or custody
of a juvenile at the requests of, or on behalf of, another parent. (Ord. 505,
9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
A juvenile commits an offense if he/she remains in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the corporate city limits after curfew
hours commence. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-5: DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution under section
5-5A-4 of this article that the juvenile was at the time in question:
   A.   Accompanied by the juvenile's parent or responsible adult.
   B.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
   C.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home,
without any detour or stop, from an official school, religious or other
recreational activity supervised by adults or an event sponsored by the city, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
juvenile.
   D.   Engaged in employment activity, or going to or returning home from an
employment activity, without any detour or stop.
   E.   Involved in an emergency.
   F.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this article, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this article unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in section
5-5A-5 of this article is present. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
5-5A-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs. The court may require
community service work prescribed by the court in lieu of a fine if the product
of multiplying the number of minimum hours of community service work by the
prevailing wage does not result in a number which exceeds the maximum fine
authorized by law.
   B.   Jurisdiction Of Municipal Court: The municipal court's jurisdiction
over a juvenile who violates section
5-5A-4 of this article shall be expressly subject to title 10 of the Oklahoma
Statutes, as amended by H.B. 2640 of the 1994 regular session of the Oklahoma
legislature. (Ord. 505, 9-6-1994, eff. 9-6-1994)
ARTICLE B. TRUANCY
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Purpose And Intent
5-5B-2: Definitions
5-5B-3: Neglect Or Refusal To Compel Child To Attend School
5-5B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Curbing Juvenile Crime: The purpose of this article is to curb the
increasing problem of juvenile crime; to educate and reform juvenile offenders;
to punish juvenile offenders; and to create an environment whereby adults and
juveniles take responsibility for the actions of juveniles.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is further intended by this article to
continue to hold neglectful or careless parents to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall not be
a defense to the committing of any violation of any offense contained in this
article that a parent, guardian or any other person whose responsibility it is
to exercise control over a minor, was completely unaware or indifferent to the
activities, conduct or whereabouts of such minor. (Ord. 544, 12-2-1996, eff.
12-2-1996)
5-5B-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations
shall have the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Poteau, LeFlore County, Oklahoma.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age. Furthermore, the term
"minor" shall be synonymous with the term "juvenile".
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or adoptive
parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco parentis; or
d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court.
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday. (Ord. 544, 12-
2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
5-5B-3: NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO COMPEL CHILD TO ATTEND SCHOOL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of a child who is over the age of five (5) years, and under the age of
eighteen (18) years, to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to
attend and comply with the rules of some public, private or other school,
unless other means of education are provided for the full term the schools of
the district are in session or the child is excused as provided in this
section. One-half (1/2) day of kindergarten shall be required of all children
five (5) years of age or older unless the child is excused from kindergarten
attendance as provided in this section. A child who is five (5) years of age
shall be excused from kindergarten attendance until the next school year after
the child is six (6) years of age if a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child notifies the superintendent of the district where the
child is a resident by certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or
at any time during the first school year that the child is required to attend
kindergarten pursuant to this section, of election to withhold the child from
kindergarten until the next school year after the child is six (6) years of
age. A kindergarten program shall be directed toward developmentally
appropriate objectives for such children. The program shall require that any
teacher employed on and after January 1, 1993, to teach a kindergarten program
within the public school system shall be certified in early childhood
education. All teachers hired to teach a kindergarten program within the public
school system prior to January 1, 1993, shall be required to obtain
certification in early childhood education on or before the 1996-97 school year
in order to continue to teach a kindergarten program.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of twelve (12)
years and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not finished four
(4) years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with
the rules of some public, private or other school, or receive an education by
other means for the full term the schools of the district are in session.
   C.   Provided, that this section shall not apply:
      1.   If any child is prevented from attending school by reason of mental
or physical disability, to be determined by the board of education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician,
or, if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing
physician;
      2.   If any child is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal teacher of the school in which such child is
enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having control of such child;
      3.   If any child who has attained his or her sixteenth birthday is
excused from attending school by written, joint agreement between:
         a.   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school, and
         b.   The parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided,
further, that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint
agreement between a school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian
of the child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for
the best interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until
the child has reached the age of eighteen (18) years;
      4.   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
observing religious holy days if before the absence, the parent, guardian, or
person having custody or control of the student submits a written request for
the excused absence. The school district shall excuse a student pursuant to
this subsection for the days on which the religious holy days are observed and
for the days on which the student must travel to and from the site where the
student will observe the holy days; or
      5.   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
participating in a military funeral honors ceremony upon approval of the school
principal.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the attendance officer to enforce the
provisions of this section. In the prosecution of a parent, guardian, or other
person having custody of a child for violation of any provision of this
section, it shall be an affirmative defense that the parent, guardian, or other
person having custody of the child has made substantial and reasonable efforts
to comply with the compulsory attendance requirements of this section but is
unable to cause the child to attend school. If the court determines the
affirmative defense is valid, it shall dismiss the complaint against the
parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child and shall notify
the school attendance officer who shall refer the child to the district
attorney for the county in which the child resides for the filing of a child in
need of supervision petition against the child pursuant to the Oklahoma
juvenile code.
   E.   Any parent, guardian, custodian, child or other person violating any of
the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as follows:
      1.   For the first offense, a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00), or imprisonment for not more
than five (5) days, or both such fine and imprisonment;
      2.   For the second offense, a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or imprisonment for not
more than ten (10) days, or both such fine and imprisonment; and
      3.   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or
imprisonment for not more than fifteen (15) days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
Each day the child remains out of school after the oral and documented or
written warning has been given to the parent, guardian, custodian, child or
other person or the child has been ordered to school by the juvenile court
shall constitute a separate offense.
   F.   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
court by any authorized employee of the school district.
   G.   The court may order the parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child to perform community service in lieu of the fine set forth
in this section. The court may require that all or part of the community
service be performed for a public school district.
   H.   The court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child any conditions as the court considers necessary to
obtain compliance with school attendance requirements. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
      2.   Attending meetings with school officials;
      3.   Taking the child to school;
      4.   Taking the child to the bus stop;
      5.   Attending school with the child;
      6.   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
and following the recommendations of the evaluator; and
      7.   Taking the child for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
evaluation and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused
by the court. (Ord. 737, 2-2-2015)
ARTICLE C. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
5-5C-1: Definitions
5-5C-2: Distribution And Sales; Identification
5-5C-3: Purchase Or Acceptance By Minor
5-5C-4: Distribution Of Samples
5-5C-5: Tobacco Sales In Original, Sealed Packaging
5-5C-6: Reports Of Violations And Compliance Checks
5-5C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost for
the purpose of promoting the product.
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing
tobacco, dipping tobacco, snus, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco; and
any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts of
nicotine, otherwise distributed with the expectation that the product or matter
will be introduced in the body; any substance that contains tobacco and is
intended for human consumption. "Tobacco product" does not include any
cessation product specifically approved by the United States food and drug
administration for use in treating nicotine or tobacco dependence. The term
"tobacco product" referenced hereafter in this article shall also include any
"vapor product" defined as follows: noncombustible products, that may or may
not contain nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery,
electronic circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can
be used to produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall
include any vapor cartridge or other solution with or without nicotine or other
form that is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device.
"Vapor products" do not include any products regulated by the United States
food and drug administration under chapter V of the food, drug and cosmetic
act. (Ord. 545, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996; amd. Ord. 734, 11-3-2014)
5-5C-2: DISTRIBUTION AND SALES; IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Underage Persons; Employee Excepted: It is unlawful for any person to
sell or furnish in any manner any tobacco product to another person who is
under eighteen (18) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product on behalf of any such person. Provided, however, that it shall not be
unlawful for an employee under eighteen (18) years of age to handle such
products when required in the performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   Demand Proof Of Age: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of
tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if any ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 545,
12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
   C.   Violation; Fine: When a person violates subsection A or B of this
section, the city shall assess such person an administrative fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense within a one year period, two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense within a one year period, and
three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third offense or subsequent offense
within a one year period. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and
reasonably relied upon proof of age, shall be a defense to any action brought
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 731, 8-4-2014)
   D.   Guilt Of Employee: If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a
store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be
guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   E.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of the employee to pay the
administrative fine within ninety (90) days of the day of the assessment of
such fine, the city shall notify the state department of public safety and said
department shall suspend or not issue a driver's license to said employee until
proof of payment has been furnished to the state department of public safety.
(Ord. 545, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
5-5C-3: PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE BY MINOR:
   A.   Possession By Minor: It is unlawful for a person who is under eighteen
(18) years of age to purchase, accept receipt of, or have in their possession a
tobacco product, or to present or offer to any person any purported proof of
age which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, for the purpose
of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. Provided, however, that it
shall not be unlawful for such a person to handle such tobacco product when
required in the performance of such person's duties. (Ord. 545, 12-2-1996, eff.
12-2-1996)
   B.   Violation; Fine: When a person violates subsection A of this section,
the city shall assess such person an administrative fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first offense within a one year period, two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second offense within a one year period, and three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for a third offense or subsequent offense within a one year
period. Upon failure of the individual to pay such administrative fine within
ninety (90) days of the day of such fine, the city shall notify the state
department of public safety and said department shall suspend or not issue a
driver's license to said individual until proof of payment has been furnished
to the state department of public safety. (Ord. 731, 8-4-2014)
5-5C-4: DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLES:
   A.   Distribution To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute tobacco product samples to any person under eighteen (18) years of
age.
   B.   Near Schools Or Playgrounds: Notwithstanding subsection A of this
section, no person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet (300') of any
playground, school, or other facility when the facility is being used primarily
by persons under eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 545, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-
1996)
   C.   Violation; Fine: When a person violates subsection A or B of this
section, the city shall assess such person an administrative fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense within a one year period, two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense within a one year period, and
three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third offense or subsequent offense
within a one year period. (Ord. 731, 8-4-2014)
   D.   Failure To Pay Fine: Upon failure of the individual to pay the
administrative fine within ninety (90) days of the assessment of such fine, the
city shall notify the state department of public safety, and said department
shall suspend or not issue a driver's license to said individual until proof of
payment has been furnished to the state department of public safety. (Ord. 545,
12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
5-5C-5: TOBACCO SALES IN ORIGINAL, SEALED PACKAGING:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in
the original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   Violation; Fine: When a person violates subsection A of this section,
the city shall assess such person an administrative fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 545, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
5-5C-6: REPORTS OF VIOLATIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
Any conviction for a violation of this article and any compliance checks
conducted shall be reported in writing to the alcoholic beverage laws
enforcement (ABLE) commission within thirty (30) days. Persons under the age of
eighteen (18) years may be enlisted in the enforcement of this article. (Ord.
734, 11-3-2014)
ARTICLE D. LOITERING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
5-5D-1: Definitions
5-5D-2: Prohibited Acts
5-5D-3: Penalties
5-5D-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations
shall have the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Poteau, LeFlore County, Oklahoma.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age. Furthermore, the term
"minor" shall be synonymous with the term "juvenile".
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday. (Ord. 546, 12-
2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
5-5D-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Loitering: No minor shall loaf or loiter on any street, alley,
sidewalk, parking lot, parking area, or public place within the city.
   B.   Disturbing The Peace: No minor shall congregate on the premises of any
place to commit any offense, or to carouse, make unnecessary noises, disturb,
disrupt or annoy the people residing or carrying on business in the immediate
neighborhood or so as to disturb the peace. (Ord. 546, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-
1996)
5-5D-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   When a person violates subsection 5-5D-2A of this article, the city
shall assess such person an administrative fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for a first offense within a one year period, and an administrative fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second or subsequent offense within a one year
period.
   B.   When a person violates subsection 5-5D-2B of this article, the city
shall assess such person an administrative fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for a first offense within a one year period, and an administrative fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second or subsequent offense within a one year
period. (Ord. 546, 12-2-1996, eff. 12-2-1996)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Fireworks Regulated
5-6-2: Storing Explosives
5-6-3: Penalty
5-6-1: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Sale Within City Limits Prohibited Generally; Exceptions: The sale of
fireworks at retail is prohibited except as fundraising projects for nonprofit
groups of LeFlore County by special permit issued by the city clerk as required
in this chapter.
   B.   Definition: The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible
or explosive composition, or any substance or combination of substances or
matter prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, explosion or detonation.
   C.   License, Permit Required: No nonprofit group shall possess for purpose
of selling, sell or offer for sale any fireworks, without first obtaining a
state license from the Oklahoma tax commission, notifying the Poteau fire chief
of the location of their stand, and purchase special fireworks permit for
nonprofit fundraising which requires proof of 501C-3 status and/or be a
verifiable school or church fundraising function.
   D.   Sales; Temporary Stand: No nonprofit group shall sell, offer for sale,
or display for sale, any fireworks within the city limits of the city of
Poteau, except in a temporary open pavilion type of stand, at least one hundred
feet (100') from any and all brick or masonry buildings or structures, and at
least one hundred twenty five feet (125') from any and all wooden structures or
buildings and at least two hundred feet (200') from any service station or fuel
distributor.
   E.   Sales On Public Property: No nonprofit group shall sell, offer for sale
or display for sale, any fireworks within the city limits of the city of Poteau
on any public street, alley, road, right of way, or other public property, or
railroad right of way.
   F.   Sales To Certain Persons: No nonprofit group shall sell, or offer for
sale any fireworks within the city limits of the city of Poteau, to any child
under the age of ten (10) years or to any intoxicated or incompetent person.
   G.   Igniting Fireworks: It shall be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks
within the city limits of the city of Poteau, within five hundred feet (500')
of any church, hospital, nursing home, clinic, public school, house where an
ill person is known to be confined, or within one city block of Dewey Avenue
from the Eastern Oklahoma Medical Center to the LeFlore County Courthouse.
   H.   Authority Of Fire Chief; Rules And Regulations: The chief of the fire
department shall have the power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
the granting of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks and other organizations, in accordance
with the city's fire code.
   I.   Validity: If any part of this section shall be invalid or declared
invalid, it shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
section.
   J.   Penalty: Any person, firm, corporation, or nonprofit group convicted of
violating any portion of this section, shall pay a fine and costs not to exceed
the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00), and each sale of fireworks, in
conflict with this section, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 226, 5-
7-2007)
5-6-2: STORING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
and ordinances of the city for the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such
items. (1990 Code § 10-304)
5-6-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 10-701)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited
5-7-2: Conditions For Keeping Pit Bull Dogs
5-7-3: Rabies Control
5-7-4: Report Of Bite Cases
5-7-5: Violation; Penalty
5-7-1: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within the
corporate limits of the city:
   A.   Wild Or Exotic Animals: Any warm blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous,
wild or exotic animal excluding fowl, ferrets and small rodents of varieties
used for laboratory purposes and excluding exhibitions of animals maintained by
a zoological park.
   B.   Animals With Poisonous Bites: Any animal having a poisonous bite.
   C.   Pit Bull Dogs: Any pit bull dog; provided, that pit bull dogs
registered with the city within ten (10) days of the effective date hereof may
be kept within the city subject to the provisions of section
5-7-2 of this chapter.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: See subsection 5-7-2C of this chapter for penalty
provisions. (Ord. 462, 2-4-1991)
5-7-2: CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING PIT BULL DOGS:
   A.   Pit Bull Dog Defined: A "pit bull dog" shall include any of the
following:
      1.   The bull terrier breed of dog.
      2.   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog.
      3.   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog.
      4.   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog.
   B.   Keeping Of Registered Pit Bull Dogs; Requirements: The prohibition of
subsection 5-7-1C of this chapter shall not apply to pit bull dogs registered
with the city within ten (10) days of the effective date hereof. The keeping of
such dog shall be subject to the following standards:
      1.   Leash And Muzzle: No person shall permit a registered pit bull dog
to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet (4') in length. No person shall permit a pit
bull dog to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel
or pen, unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not
be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In
addition, all pit bull dogs on a leash outside the animal's kennel must be
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons
or other animals.
      2.   Confinement:
         a.   All registered pit bull dogs shall be securely confined indoors
or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used to confine
registered pit bull dogs must be locked with a key or combination lock when
such animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom
or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be
embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to
house pit bull dogs must comply with all zoning and building regulations of the
city.
         b.   All such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated and
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.   Confinement Indoors: No pit bull dog may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      4.   Signs: All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs
within the city shall, within ten (10) days of the effective date hereof,
display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the
public using the words "Beware of Dog". In addition, a similar sign is required
to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
      5.   Insurance: All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull
dogs must, within ten (10) days of the effective date hereof, provide proof to
the Poteau animal control officer of public liability insurance in a single
incident amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for bodily injury to or
death of any person or persons, or for damage to property owned by any persons
which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal.
Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the policy will be
made unless ten (10) days' written notice is first given to the Poteau animal
control officer.
      6.   Identification Photographs: All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bull dogs must, within ten (10) days of the effective date
hereof, provide to the animal control officer two (2) color photographs of the
registered animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
      7.   Reporting Requirements: All owners, keepers or harborers of
registered pit bull dogs must, within ten (10) days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the Poteau animal control officer as
required hereinafter:
         a.   The removal from the city or death of a registered pit bull dog;
         b.   The birth of offspring of a registered pit bull dog;
         c.   The new address of a registered pit bull dog owner should the
owner move within the corporate city limits.
      8.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership: No person shall sell, barter or in
any other way dispose of a pit bull dog registered with the city to any person
within the city unless the recipient person resides permanently in the same
household and on the same premises as the registered owner of such dog;
provided, that the registered owner of a pit bull dog may sell or otherwise
dispose of a registered dog or the offspring of such dog to persons who do not
reside within the city.
      9.   Animals Born Of Registered Dogs: All offspring born of pit bull dogs
registered with the city must be removed from the city within six (6) weeks of
the birth of such animal.
      10.   Registration; Fee: All pit bull dogs shall be registered by the
owner with the animal control officer of the city within ten (10) days of the
effective date hereof. No pit bull dog shall be registered by the animal
control officer if the requirements of subsections B5 and B6 of this section
are not complied with at the time of application. In addition to the regular
fees required by the city, an additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
charged for each pit bull dog so registered.
      11.   Irrebuttable Presumptions: There shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that any dog registered with the city as a pit bull dog or any of
those breeds listed in subsection A of this section is in fact a dog subject to
the requirements of this section and section
5-7-1 of this chapter.
      12.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a pit bull dog registered with the city to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this section. Any dog found to be the
subject of a violation of this section shall be subject to immediate seizure
and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the revocation
of the license of such animal, resulting in the immediate removal of the animal
from the city.
   C.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of
this section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter shall, upon conviction in municipal court, be fined a sum
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs.
      2.   In the event the violation shall involve a registered pit bull dog
or other animal covered by this section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter, the court shall order the registration of the subject
pit bull dog revoked and the animal removed from the city.
      3.   Should the defendant owners refuse to remove the animal from the
city, the municipal court judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and
order the immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal.
      4.   If the owner shall continue to refuse to remove the animal from the
city, the municipal court judge shall issue any other orders necessary to carry
out the intent of this section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter.
      5.   Each day that a violation of this section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      6.   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this
section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food,
handling, veterinary care and testimony necessitated by the enforcement of this
section or section
5-7-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 462, 2-4-1991)
5-7-3: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Quarantine Requirement; Reclamation; Fees:
      1.   The owner or keeper of any animal which has bitten a human, or which
is suspected of having been exposed to rabies, shall, upon demand made by the
animal control officer, forthwith surrender such animal for supervised
quarantine for a period of not less than fourteen (14) days. Such quarantine
for a period of not less than fourteen (14) days shall be at the owner's
expense in a veterinary hospital of his choice.
      2.   At such time as the animal is adjudged free of rabies by a duly
licensed veterinarian, the owner may reclaim the animal upon payment of the
quarantine fees, and in the event that the animal is a dog or cat, upon further
compliance with the licensing provisions set forth herein.
      3.   Failure to comply with provisions herein or failure to so surrender
any animal within forty eight (48) hours after demand has been made by the
animal control officer shall be deemed a misdemeanor for purposes of this
section and punishable as separate offense.
   B.   Death Of Rabid Animal; Disposition: When an animal has been diagnosed
as being rabid or suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies
while under quarantine, the animal control officer shall immediately have the
animal decapitated by a licensed veterinarian and send the head of the animal
to the bureau of laboratories of the Oklahoma state department of health or
other recognized diagnostic laboratory for rabies examination, and shall notify
the "city health officer", as defined in section
5-7B-1 of this title, and the mayor of such action.
   C.   Proclamation Of Quarantine: When an examination report gives a positive
diagnosis of rabies, the city health officer may recommend to the mayor
citywide quarantine for a period of thirty (30) days; and upon the invoking of
such quarantine by the mayor, no dog or cat shall be taken into the streets
during such period of quarantine. In the event there are additional positive
cases of rabies occurring during the period of the quarantine, such period of
quarantine may be extended for an additional period.
   D.   Destruction Of Animals Bitten By Rabid Animal: During such period of
rabies quarantine as herein mentioned, every dog or cat bitten by a dog or cat
which has been adjudged rabid, shall be forthwith destroyed.
   E.   Permission To Kill Or Remove From City: No person shall kill, or cause
to be killed, any rabid dog or cat, any dog or cat suspected of having been
exposed to rabies, or any dog or cat biting a human, except as herein provided;
nor remove the same from the city limits without written permission from the
animal control officer.
   F.   Surrender Of Carcass: The carcass of any dead dog or cat exposed to
rabies shall, upon demand, be surrendered to the animal control officer.
   G.   Disposition Directed By Animal Control Officer: The animal control
officer shall direct the disposition of any dog or cat found to be infected
with rabies. (1990 Code § 4-130)
5-7-4: REPORT OF BITE CASES:
It is the duty of every physician and other medical practitioner to report to
the animal control officer the names and addresses of any and all persons
treated for bites inflicted by dogs or cats, together with such other
information as will be helpful in rabies control. (1990 Code § 4-131)
5-7-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To Comply: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to violate, neglect or refuse to comply with any regulation, requirement or
provision contained within this chapter.
   B.   Separate Violation Each Day: Each act or omission in violation of any
provision hereof shall be deemed a separate violation of such provision, and
for each calendar day during which any violation continues, a separate
violation shall be deemed to have been committed.
   C.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects
or refuses to comply with any regulation, requirement or provisions of this
chapter is hereby deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 4-140)
ARTICLE A. ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Definitions
5-7A-2: Application Of Provisions; Dogs And Cats Excepted
5-7A-3: Animals And Fowl Prohibited In Certain Areas
5-7A-4: Running At Large
5-7A-5: Swine Prohibited
5-7A-6: Suitable Enclosures Required; Size
5-7A-7: Buildings And Kennels, Sanitation
5-7A-8: Impoundment, Redemption And Sale
5-7A-9: Cruelty To Animals
5-7A-10: Unlawful Removal From Animal Shelter
5-7A-11: Bird Sanctuary Designated
5-7A-12: Hunting Or Shooting Birds Or Wild Fowl
5-7A-13: Enforcement; Investigation
5-7A-14: Penalty
5-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner of the animal, and not under the control
of the owner, a member of his immediate family twelve (12) years of age or
older, or an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise.
OWNER: Any person owning, harboring, or keeping an animal. The occupant of any
premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains, or to which it
customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more, is deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal. (1990 Code § 4-101)
5-7A-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; DOGS AND CATS EXCEPTED:
This article is not intended to, nor does it in any way, apply to dogs or cats.
(1990 Code § 4-107)
5-7A-3: ANIMALS AND FOWL PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association of individuals
to allow or permit any fowl, including, but not limited to, chickens, turkeys,
pigeons, ducks and geese, or any domestic animals, including, but not limited
to, horses, mules, donkeys, cows, sheep and goats, within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of any dwelling, house trailer, hotel, motel, grocery store,
supermarket, or food service establishment, except in a duly established A
agricultural district wherein such distance limitation shall be fifty feet
(50'). (1990 Code § 4-102)
5-7A-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It is unlawful for any owner of any animal or fowl to permit, allow, or suffer
the animal or fowl to run at large in the city. For the purposes of this
article, "domestic animal" shall be defined as any animal which resides in the
same house with its master or owner and excluding dogs and cats. (1990 Code §
4-105)
5-7A-5: SWINE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to keep and
maintain swine, hogs, shoats, or pigs within the corporate limits of the city.
It is further provided, however, that such prohibition shall not apply in any
duly established A agriculture zoned district. (1990 Code § 4-106)
5-7A-6: SUITABLE ENCLOSURES REQUIRED; SIZE:
   A.   Enclosure Required: Suitable pens or enclosures, substantially erected,
shall be provided and maintained for the safekeeping of all fowl or animals
kept within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Size: A minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet shall be enclosed for
a fowl pen, and a minimum of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet per
animal shall be enclosed for the keeping of any domestic animals. (1990 Code §
4-103)
5-7A-7: BUILDINGS AND KENNELS, SANITATION:
   A.   Construction; Sanitation: Every building wherein any animal is kept
within the city shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that
it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   B.   Manure Receptacle Required:
      1.   Every such building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of
any tenement or apartment house; hotel; restaurant; boarding house; retail food
store; building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes; or
residence, other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and
flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of
manure.
      2.   Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times, except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse.
      3.   No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises, except in
such receptacle.
   C.   Dog Kennels, Location: No dog kennel or other establishment wherein
animals are kept shall be maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any
apartment house; hotel; restaurant; boarding house; retail food store; building
used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes; or residence, other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animals
are kept.
   D.   Keeping Clean; Disposal Of Manure:
      1.   All enclosures where animals or fowl are kept shall be kept clean
and free from all filth at all times.
      2.   All manure shall be cleared regularly and kept in a separate
receptacle, properly covered, which shall be removed at least twice a week or
whenever directed by the health officer or other officials of the city. Each
enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual spray as often as necessary
to control flies and other insects, and the premises shall be disinfected not
less than once in a period of two (2) weeks. (1990 Code § 4-104)
5-7A-8: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND SALE:
   A.   Impoundment:
      1.   Any animal or fowl found running at large upon the streets, alleys,
public places, or other private places, not under control of the owner, shall
be taken up by the animal control officer or any police officer of the city.
      2.   Any animal or fowl so taken up shall be confined by the city.
   B.   Redemption; Payment Of Fees:
      1.   The owners, or the persons having custody of any such animal or fowl
so taken, may redeem such animal or fowl by paying an impounding fee as set by
the city council and the cost, as set by the city, of maintaining such animal
or fowl in such custody.
      2.   If any animal or fowl so taken is not redeemed by the owner thereof
within ninety six (96) hours of its taking, the animal or fowl may be sold at
public auction to the highest bidder after notice having first been given as
provided in subsection C of this section. (1990 Code § 4-108)
   C.   Sale Of Unredeemed Animals:
      1.   When any animal or fowl is so impounded by the city for a period of
ninety six (96) hours or longer without redemption thereof by the owner, the
mayor is directed to give notice by publication one time in a newspaper of
general circulation within the limits of the city, setting forth therein the
date of impoundment, the description of the animal or fowl impounded, the fact
the same will be offered for sale at a time not less than five (5) days from
date of publication, and that upon sale thereof the city shall give a bill of
sale to the purchasers, without warranty, and deliver possession of the animal
or fowl to the purchasers.
      2.   All monies received from such sales shall be deposited in the
general fund of the city. (1990 Code § 4-109)
5-7A-9: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance or water, cruelly
beat, mutilate or kill any animal or fail to give such animal sufficient water,
or cause or procure an animal to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented or deprived of necessary sustenance
or water, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or killed, or fail to provide an animal
adequate shelter and protection from the weather. (1990 Code § 4-110)
5-7A-10: UNLAWFUL REMOVAL FROM ANIMAL SHELTER:
No person shall take out or attempt to take out of the animal shelter, or any
animal shelter property, any animal or animals located therein without first
paying the fees prescribed by this chapter, and meeting the vaccination
requirements contained herein. (1990 Code § 4-111)
5-7A-11: BIRD SANCTUARY DESIGNATED:
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary. (1990 Code § 4-112)
5-7A-12: HUNTING OR SHOOTING BIRDS OR WILD FOWL:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, shoot,
molest, or attempt to trap, hunt, shoot, or molest, in any manner, any bird or
wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests within the limits of the
city.
   B.   Public Nuisance; Destruction Allowed: If any birds or wild fowl become
a public nuisance or a menace to health or property, then in that event, the
birds or wild fowl may be destroyed under the control and supervision of the
city health authorities and the garden clubs, Audubon Society, or other
interested clubs of the city. (1990 Code § 4-113)
5-7A-13: ENFORCEMENT; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Enforcement: For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this
article and to enforce its provisions, the animal control officer or any police
officer is empowered to enter on premises upon which an animal is kept or
harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of the tag or receipt for
such animal.
   B.   Right Of Entry For Investigation: The animal control officer may enter
the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner
and demand to examine such animal and take possession of such animal when, in
his opinion, the animal requires humane treatment. (1990 Code § 4-114)
5-7A-14: PENALTY:
See section
5-7-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
ARTICLE B. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-7B-1: Definitions
5-7B-2: Vaccination Against Rabies Required
5-7B-3: Register And Vaccine Requirements
5-7B-4: Tag And Collar
5-7B-5: Confinement Of Certain Dogs
5-7B-6: Keeping Dog Under Control
5-7B-7: Impoundment, Redemption And Sale
5-7B-8: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
5-7B-9: Enforcement; Investigation
5-7B-10: Penalty
5-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings prescribed
in this section, except in those cases where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons employed by the city as
enforcement officer or officers of this article, the person or persons to be
selected by the mayor.
AT LARGE: Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when such dog is off the
property of its owner and not under control of a competent person.
CITY ANIMAL SHELTER: The premises operated and maintained by the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for dogs and cats in violation of this
article.
CONTROL: A dog is under "control" within the meaning of this article if such
dog is controlled by a leash, at "heel" beside a competent person and obedient
to that person's commands, on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
streets or within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
EXPOSED TO RABIES: Any dog or cat that has been exposed to rabies within the
meaning of this article if such dog or cat has been bitten by or exposed to any
animal known to have been infected with rabies.
HEALTH OFFICER: The director of the county health department.
KENNEL: Is defined in conformity with that definition found at section
5-7A-7 of this title. Any change in section
5-7A-7 of this title shall also be deemed a change herein.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog or dogs or cat or cats. (1990 Code § 4-120; amd.
2004 Code)
5-7B-2: VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED:
   A.   Vaccination Required; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
own, keep, or harbor any dog or cat, male or female, over the age of six (6)
months within the corporate limits of the city, unless such dog or cat has been
immunized by vaccination against rabies, provided such vaccination shall be
repeated each twelve (12) months after the date.
      2.   The above shall not apply to any dog or cat over the age of six (6)
months which is brought into the city for which the owner, keeper, or harborer
can furnish a certificate from a duly licensed veterinarian showing that such
dog or cat has been vaccinated within a period of twelve (12) months.
   B.   Supervision Of Veterinarian: Such vaccination shall be performed by or
under the supervision of a graduate veterinarian, licensed to practice
veterinary medicine with the state.
   C.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon payment of the veterinarian's fee, the
veterinarian shall deliver to the owner, keeper or harborer of each dog or cat
vaccinated a metallic or plastic tag showing the name of the veterinarian or
veterinary clinic vaccinating the dog or cat, and showing the registration or
certificate number from the veterinarian or veterinary clinic.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring any dog or cat which has not been vaccinated as herein provided,
within the city, shall be guilty of an offense and punished accordingly. (1990
Code § 4-123)
5-7B-3: REGISTER AND VACCINE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Register Of Vaccinations: Each vaccinator shall keep a register of all
dog vaccinations and of all cat vaccinations in which shall be entered a
register number, a description of the dog or cat vaccinated, the date on which
the vaccination is administered, and the name, address, and telephone number of
the dog's or cat's owner. The register shall be kept in triplicate copy, with
one copy delivered to the city, upon demand.
   B.   Vaccine Requirements: Each vaccinator shall utilize tissue culture,
live virus vaccine, or approved suckling mouse brain virus vaccine, either one
of which must be injected intramuscularly. Such vaccination, for the purposes
of this article, is considered to be effective for a period of one year. (1990
Code § 4-122)
5-7B-4: TAG AND COLLAR:
Every owner is required to see that the numbered tag issued pursuant to section
5-7B-2 of this article is securely fastened to the dog's or cat's collar, choke
chain, or harness, which must be worn by the dog or cat at all times. (1990
Code § 4-121)
5-7B-5: CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS:
   A.   Vicious Dogs 1 : The owner shall confine within a building or secure
enclosure, every fierce, dangerous, or vicious dog, and not take such dog out
of the building or enclosure unless the dog is securely muzzled.
   B.   Female Dogs In Heat: Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in
a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel,
in such manner that the female dog cannot come in contact with a male dog,
except for breeding purposes; in which event, such dogs shall be in some
enclosed place entirely out of public view. (1990 Code § 4-124)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 5-7-1 and
  5-7-2 of this title.
5-7B-6: KEEPING DOG UNDER CONTROL:
The owner shall keep his dog under control at all times and shall not permit
the dog to be at large or off the property or premises of the owner, unless
under the control of a competent person. The provisions herein contained shall
apply within and upon all properties within the corporate limits of the city,
except those properties located in a duly established A agriculture zoned
district. (1990 Code § 4-125)
5-7B-7: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND SALE:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized; Procedure:
      1.   Any dog or cat found running at large in the city, and not having
attached to its collar, choke chain, or harness the vaccination tag required
herein shall be immediately impounded.
      2.   Any dog found running at large within the city, except those found
running at large within and upon properties located in a duly established A
agriculturally zoned district, shall be immediately impounded and taken by the
animal control officer to the city animal shelter.
      3.   Immediately upon impounding any dog or cat, the animal control
officer shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner of the dog or
cat so impounded, and inform the owner of the conditions whereby he may regain
custody of the dog or cat.
      4.   After the expiration of the five (5) day detention period, the
animal control officer may humanely destroy, or, as set forth in subsection B
of this section, may sell and transfer title to any dog or cat impounded under
this section and not redeemed by its owner. The animal control officer may
transfer title to any dog or cat held by the city at its animal shelter to a
competent person after the legal detention period herein referred to has
expired and the dog or cat has not been claimed by its owner. In the event of
such transfer of title, it is expressly understood that the new owner shall pay
for each such animal's food until it shall be removed from the city animal
shelter. Removal of any dog or cat from the city animal shelter under the
provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that the dog or cat is owned by
the person so removing it.
      5.   If an animal has been tranquilized, the animal control officer may
enter on private property to retrieve an animal in accordance with applicable
law and this article. (1990 Code § 4-126)
   B.   Redemption Or Sale:
      1.   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of an impounded dog
or cat, except as hereinafter provided in the cases of certain dogs and cats,
upon compliance with the vaccination provisions of this article and the payment
of impoundment fees. (1990 Code § 4-127; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Any dog or cat impounded under subsection A of this section and not
reclaimed by its owners within five (5) days, exclusive of Sundays and legal
holidays, may be sold by the animal control officer for the amount of the
impoundment fees against such dog or cat to any person deemed to be a
responsible or suitable owner who will agree to comply with the provisions of
this article and such other regulations as may be fixed by the city. (1990 Code
§ 4-127)
5-7B-8: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Unlawful Removal Of Tag: Unlawfully remove the tag from any dog or cat
without the owner's consent.
   B.   Loud Noises: Own, possess, keep, or harbor any dog which by loud and
frequent howling, yelping, or other noises, causes annoyance or disturbance to
any of the citizens of the city.
   C.   Filthy Yard Or Pen: Allow the yard, pen, or other confine where a dog
is kept to become filthy or unsanitary.
   D.   Hindering Animal Control Officer: Interfere with, hinder, or molest the
animal control officer in the performance of any duty of such agent, or seek to
release any dog or cat in the custody of the animal control officer except as
herein provided.
   E.   Illegal Use Of Receipt Or Tag: Use for any dog or cat a receipt or tag
issued for another dog or cat. (1990 Code § 4-128)
5-7B-9: ENFORCEMENT; INVESTIGATION:
For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this article and to
enforce its provisions, the animal control officer or any police officer is
empowered to enter on premises upon which a dog or cat is kept or harbored and
to demand the exhibition by the owner of the tag or receipt for such dog or
cat. The animal control officer may enter the premises where any dog is kept in
a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such dog and take
possession of such dog when, in his opinion, the dog requires humane treatment.
(1990 Code § 4-129)
5-7B-10: PENALTY:
See section
5-7-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
ARTICLE C. DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-7C-1: Definitions
5-7C-2: Registration; Insurance And Fees
5-7C-3: Restraints
5-7C-4: Violations; Penalties
5-7C-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY: An entity acting alone or in concert with other local
governmental units for enforcement of the animal control laws of the city,
county and state and the shelter and welfare of animals.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any individual employed, contracted with, or appointed
by the animal control authority for the purpose of aiding the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes any
state or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in whole
or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   Has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private property,
   B.   Has inflicted property damage by attacking and/or chewing, gnawing or
biting and damaging personal property (including, but not limited to, a car or
bike or motorcycle, etc.) or chewing, gnawing or biting and damaging real
property (including, but not limited to, a house or storage building or
structure of any type, etc.) on public or private property,
   C.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and the dog
thereafter aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans, or
   D.   Has been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such by the animal control authority in writing and the dog
thereafter attacks a dog or cat which results in the death of said dog or cat
either on public of private property.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department possessing,
harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having control or custody of an
animal.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
   A.   When unprovoked inflicts bites on a human either on public or private
property, or
   B.   When unprovoked attacks a dog which results in the death of said dog
either on public or private property.
PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG: While on the owner's property, a dangerous
dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure with at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of space for
each dog kept therein which is over six (6) months of age, and which is
suitable to prevent the entry of children and designed to prevent the animal
from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top,
and shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in broken bones or lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery. (Ord. 742, 11-2-2015)
5-7C-2: REGISTRATION; INSURANCE AND FEES:
   A.   It is unlawful for an owner to have a dangerous dog in the city without
certificate of registration issued under this section. This section shall not
apply to dogs used by law enforcement officials for police work.
   B.   The animal control authority of the city in which an owner has a
dangerous dog shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of such
animal if the owner presents to the animal control unit sufficient evidence of:
      1.   A proper enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the posting of the
premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on
the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a
warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog; and
      2.   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowner's insurance, or
surety bond, issued by an insurer qualified under 36 Oklahoma Statutes in the
amount of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog.
   C.   If an owner has the dangerous dog in an incorporated area that is
serviced by both a city and county animal control authority, the owner shall
obtain a certificate of registration from the city authority.
   D.   The city shall charge an annual fee not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00),
in addition to regular dog licensing fees, if any are charged, not to exceed
ten dollars ($10.00), to register dangerous dogs. Fees shall be retained by the
city. (Ord. 742, 11-2-2015)
5-7C-3: RESTRAINTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure as defined by section
5-7C-1 of this article, unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash and remains under the physical restraint of a
responsible person over sixteen (16) years of age. The muzzle shall be made in
a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
   B.   Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage
was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful trespass or
other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime. (Ord. 742, 11-2-2015)
5-7C-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal control
authority if:
      1.   The dog is not validly registered under section
5-7C-2 of this article;
      2.   The owner does not secure the liability insurance coverage or surety
bond required under section
5-7C-2 of this article;
      3.   The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure as defined by
section
5-7C-1 of this article; and
      4.   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside the
proper enclosure and not under physical restraint of the responsible person as
required by section
5-7C-3 of this article.
   B.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00),
or by such fine for any violation of the laws relating to dangerous dogs
resulting in the confiscation of such dog pursuant to any provision of
subsection A of this section.
   C.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), or by such fine for any personal injury caused by such dangerous
dog. The fine, at the discretion of the court, may be offset by payments made
by the dog owner to any victim of an injury or attack by the dog. However,
insurance payments may not be considered as an offset. In addition, the court
may require the owner to perform forty (40) hours of community service. The
court may suspend any portion of the community service requirement set forth in
this section. It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution pursuant to
this subsection that the injury was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a wilful criminal act upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
dog or was assaulting the owner of the dog.
   D.   It is the purpose of this article to provide additional and cumulative
remedies to control dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs in this state.
Nothing in this act shall be construed to abridge or alter rights of action or
remedies of victims under the common law or statutory law, criminal or civil.
(Ord. 742, 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purposes
5-8-2: Acts Prohibited
5-8-3: Exemptions
5-8-4: Fair Housing Board
5-8-5: Grievance Procedure
5-8-6: Notice Requirements
5-8-1: PURPOSES:
The general purposes of this chapter are:
   A.   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   B.   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare. (1990 Code § 5-801)
5-8-2: ACTS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, commercial lending institution, real estate
broker, real estate salesman or agent to:
   A.   Refuse to sell, lease, rent, assign or otherwise transfer the title or
other interest in any housing, or real property upon which residential housing
is to be constructed, to any person, or to discriminate in the terms or
conditions of the sale, rental or leasing of any residential housing unit,
because of race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
   B.   Refuse to negotiate with any person for the sale, rental, or leasing of
any residential property, or to represent that such property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, because
of such person's race, color, sex, religion or national origin.
   C.   Solicit or induce, or attempt to solicit or induce, any person owning
any interest in any residential housing to sell, rent or lease, or not to sell,
rent or lease such housing to any person on the grounds of loss of value due to
the present or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons
of another race, color, sex, religion, or national origin, either by direct
solicitation or inducement or by the purchase of other property in the
neighborhood for the purpose of such inducement, or to distribute, or cause to
be distributed, or make statements designed to induce a residential property
owner to sell or lease his property due to such change in neighborhood.
   D.   Deny or make different terms or conditions for home loans by a
commercial lender, such as a bank, savings and loan association, mortgage
institution or insurance company.
   E.   File a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, with knowledge
that such complaint is false in any material respect, or to file such complaint
for the sole purpose of harassment. (1990 Code § 5-802)
5-8-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall not apply:
   A.   Any religious nonprofit organization, or association or society,
operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society from limiting the sale or rental of
dwelling units owned and operated for other than a commercial purpose.
   B.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that such
private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; and provided further, that only one such sale may be
made within any twenty four (24) month period.
   C.   Any dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be
occupied by no more than four (4) families living independent of each other and
the owner actually occupies one such living quarters as his residence. (1990
Code § 5-803)
5-8-4: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
There is hereby created a fair housing board of the city, hereinafter referred
to as "board", composed of five (5) members, to be appointed by the mayor and
city council, for terms of three (3) years, excepting that of the members first
appointed under this chapter, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of one
year, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and one shall be
appointed for a term of three (3) years. (1990 Code § 5-804)
5-8-5: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by any discriminatory practice prohibited by
this chapter may file with the fair housing board a complaint, in writing,
under oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be
aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the board.
      2.   Complaints filed under this section must be filed within thirty (30)
days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within that time shall be
considered a waiver of the application of this chapter.
      3.   The board may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any time
it is within the knowledge of the board that a person has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Investigation:
      1.   The board shall investigate each complaint filed with the board, and
shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation.
      2.   Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose of investigation,
conference and conciliation.
      3.   Upon determination that a complaint is not well founded, the board
shall dismiss the complaint and notify the complainant and respondent in
writing of the dismissal.
      4.   If it appears that the complaint might have merit, the complainants
shall be advised of their rights under existing state and federal laws.
   C.   Notice To Accused Person; Hearing: If conference or conciliation does
not result in compliance with this chapter, the board shall cause to be issued
and served in the name of the city, a written notice, together with a copy of
the complaint, requiring the person named in the complaint, hereinafter
referred to as respondent, to answer charges of the complaint at a hearing
before the board at a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing:
      1.   At the hearing provided for in subsection C of this section, the
complaint shall be heard by the board.
      2.   At the hearing, the complainant or person aggrieved may appear in
person or by counsel, and the respondent may file a written answer to the
complaint and may appear in person or by legal counsel.
      3.   The board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this section, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath, and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party, or at the direction of the board; the party requesting the transcription
to be responsible for the costs thereof.
      4.   If the board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged in
any discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it shall
state its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the city
attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this
chapter except upon such certification.
      5.   If the board, upon hearing, finds that the respondent has not
engaged in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact,
and shall issue and file an order dismissing the complaint.
      6.   The board shall establish rules and regulations to govern and
expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files
provided for herein. (1990 Code § 5-805)
5-8-6: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter, to be served
upon any person, may be served personally on such person, or by mailing a copy
thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to the
most current business or residence address of such person. (1990 Code § 5-806)
CHAPTER 9
TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Prohibited Conduct
5-9-3: Required Signs
5-9-4: Penalties And Enforcement
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, where ever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
INDOOR AREA: Means any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor
area includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by
employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: Means all buildings, indoor areas and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the City of Poteau, including but not
limited to vehicles and equipment owned by the Municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Means any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: Means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption. Tobacco product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Means any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or electronic device.
(Ord. 755, 9-5-2017)
5-9-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by Oklahoma State law.
   B.   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
Municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property, even if the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise prohibited in that
area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in violation of any provisions of this chapter.
   F.   No person shall dispose of tobacco product or vapor product waste
within an area in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited.
   G.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 755, 9-5-2017)
5-9-3: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has de facto control of an area in which the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by this chapter, shall
post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point of entry to the
area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2 inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather- resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch
(1"), and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that
a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the Mayor or his/her designee shall be
responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal property, both indoor and
outdoor.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products
in violation of any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 755, 9-5-2017)
5-9-4: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Mayor or
his/her designee. In addition, any peace officer or Code enforcement official
may enforce this chapter.
   B.   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter shall be punished by a
citation and fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) in accordance with this Code.
   C.   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of this
chapter is a nuisance.
   D.   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   E.   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in violation of
this chapter, shall constitute a separate violation.
   F.   The use of a vapor product in violation of this chapter is a nuisance.
   G.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use shall
also constitute a violation of this chapter.
   H.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use
may be remedied by the City Attorney, including, but not limited to,
administrative or judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, Criminal Code
enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief. (Ord. 755, 9-5-2017)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC CODE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Citation
6-1-2: Traffic Code Controlling
6-1-3: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
6-1-4: Definitions
6-1-5: Obedience To Traffic Code
6-1-6: Penalty
6-1-1: CITATION:
This title, and all amendments hereto, may be cited or referred to as the
TRAFFIC CODE, CITY OF POTEAU, and may so appear upon all official documents,
records or instruments. (1990 Code § 15-101)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING:
Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, the traffic
code shall be controlling and apply to the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways, public parking lots, school driveways, streets,
parking lots, or any other public right of way or municipally owned land,
including streets and other ways that form the boundary line of the city, by
pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self- propelled or otherwise
and whether moving or at rest. (1990 Code § 15-102)
6-1-3: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   Adoption: The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1-101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 11-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference, and are enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as
if set out at length herein. (1990 Code § 15-104)
   B.   Copies On File: At least three (3) copies of the adopted statutes shall
be and remain on file in the office of the city clerk. (2004 Code)
6-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section:
ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of platted
blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear of
stores, dwellings, or buildings.
AMBULANCE: A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick, or injured persons.
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including, a highway if
there are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks,
or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not marked
and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or travelled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the center
lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles be parked on
each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such manner as
may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such
highway, street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
DOUBLE PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street.
INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway of two
(2) streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets joining at any
other angle, may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of Controlled Access Highway.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A "freight
curb loading zone" is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a "passenger curb loading zone" is a
loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading
of passengers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER, AND MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean Central
Standard Time, or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers, provided such loading and unloading is in
an authorized place.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
PUBLIC PARKING LOT: A parking lot or right of way dedicated to public use or
owned by the state or a political subdivision thereof.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including, a highway not
comprising a business district.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways,
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where same is adjacent and for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') in each direction.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral lines
of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
STOP: When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: A street, boulevard or highway or portion thereof at
the entrances to which:
   A.   Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
   B.   Stop signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singularly or together, while using any highway or street for purpose of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS: Any device legally authorized and used for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including, any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1990 Code §
15-103)
6-1-5: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   Committing Unlawful Act: It is an offense against the city for any
person to do any act forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this
title.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is an offense against the city for the
parent of any child or for the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   C.   Permitting Vehicle Violations: It is an offense for any person to
authorize or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to
be driven or to stand or to be parked in violation of any of the provisions of
this title. (1990 Code § 15-1401)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, any person violating any of the
provisions of this title containing the traffic laws of the city, or who
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or who fails to perform any
act required by this title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 15-1402)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Enforcement Officials; Authority
6-2-2: Licenses For Drivers And Vehicles
6-2-3: Insurance Or Certificate Required
6-2-4: Vehicle Accidents
6-2-5: Traffic Citations; Court Action
6-2-6: Direction Of Traffic
6-2-7: Obedience To Officials
6-2-8: Public Officials Obey Traffic Regulations
6-2-9: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive
6-2-10: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-2-11: Push Carts, Animals And Animal Drawn Vehicles
6-2-12: Coasters, Rollerskates And Similar Devices
6-2-13: Persons Working On Streets, Exceptions
6-2-14: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-2-15: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-2-16: Following Emergency Vehicles
6-2-17: Crossing Fire Hose
6-2-18: Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints
6-2-19: Use Of Electronic Communication Device
6-2-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS; AUTHORITY:
It is the duty of the officers of the police department or any officers that
are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic laws of the
city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city.
Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of the city. Officers may issue
written notice to appear to any driver of a vehicle involved in an accident
when, based on personal investigation, the officer has reasonable and probable
grounds to believe that the person has committed an offense under the
provisions of the traffic code in connection with the accident. (1990 Code §
15-201)
6-2-2: LICENSES FOR DRIVERS AND VEHICLES:
   A.   State Driver's License:
      1.   Possession Of License:
         a.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times, when operating such motor vehicle, an
unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license as required by the
laws of the state, unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws
by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this subsection
shall be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or chauffeur's license
issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest.
         b.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in
violation of any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued
to him. (1990 Code § 15-215)
      2.   Use Of Invalid License: No person shall operate a motor vehicle when
his privilege to do so is canceled, suspended, revoked or denied. Any person
convicted of violating this subsection shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each act of driving on the streets or highways as
prohibited by this subsection shall constitute a separate offense. (1990 Code §
15-216)
   B.   State Vehicle License: It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind
upon a street of the city without a state vehicle license as may be required by
law or to fail to display the state vehicle license as may be required by law.
(1990 Code § 15-217)
6-2-3: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 7-600 et seq., and section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subparagraph 3 of this definition, using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY:
      1.   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   B.   Security Verification Carried In Vehicle: The owner of a motor vehicle
registered in this state and operating the vehicle within the city's boundaries
shall carry in such vehicle at all times a current owner's security
verification form listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been
issued by the state department of public safety which shall be produced by any
driver thereof upon request for inspection by any law enforcement officer and,
in case of a collision, the form shall be shown upon request to any person
affected by the collision.
   C.   Exceptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from said state
department during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to
surrender such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the state department of public
safety and which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   D.   Operator To Carry Security Verification: Every operator of a motor
vehicle registered in this state shall, while operating or using such vehicle
within the city's boundaries, carry either an operator's or an owner's security
verification form issued by a carrier, provided the operator is not excluded
from coverage thereon; or an equivalent form issued by the state department of
public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   Failure To Produce Verification Form: An owner or operator who fails to
produce for inspection a valid and current security verification form or
equivalent form which has been issued by the state department upon request of
any peace officer of the department shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   F.   Dismissal Of Charge: Any person producing proof in court that a current
security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the
department reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at
the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
Court costs may be assessed by the city.
   G.   Action Of Court; Provide Abstract To State: Upon conviction or bond
forfeiture, the court clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department
of public safety within ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(1990 Code § 15-228)
6-2-4: VEHICLE ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty To Stop; Leaving Scene:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to, or death of, any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at, the
scene of the accident, or as close thereto as possible and shall then forthwith
return to, and in every event shall remain at, the scene of the accident until
he has fulfilled the requirements of subsections A3 and A4 of this section.
Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
      2.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle, which is driven or attended by any person, shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto
as possible, and shall forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at,
the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection
A3 of this section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic
more than is necessary.
      3.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident shall give his
correct name and address and the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving; and shall exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license to the person
struck, or the driver, or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with and shall render to any person injured in the accident reasonable
assistance. If the driver does not have an operator's or chauffeur's license in
his possession, he shall exhibit other valid evidence of identification to the
occupants of a vehicle, or to the person collided with.
      4.   The driver shall, upon request and if available, exhibit his
operator's or chauffeur's license and his security verification form to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying of the person to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that
such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured
person.
      5.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 15-219)
   B.   Duty Upon Striking Unattended Vehicle Or Fixture:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop, and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of the vehicle of the correct name and address of
the driver and the owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or
shall leave in a conspicuous place in or on the vehicle struck a written notice
giving the correct name and address of the driver and of the owner of the
vehicle doing the striking, and shall provide the same information to an
officer having jurisdiction. (1990 Code § 15-220)
      2.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a street shall
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of
such property of such fact and of the driver's name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle being driven and shall, upon request,
exhibit a driver's license and security verification form, and shall make
report of such accident when and as required by law. (1990 Code § 15-220; amd.
2004 Code)
   C.   Reporting Accident: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person
or in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in
excess of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report
such accident to a police officer or to the police department unless settlement
regarding the collision has been made within six (6) months after the date of
the accident. If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the police department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the state department of public safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this subsection. (1990 Code § 15-221)
6-2-5: TRAFFIC CITATIONS; COURT ACTION 1 :
   A.   Issuance Of Tags:
      1.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall bear briefly
the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct
the violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within the time as may be specified thereon.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
      3.   The chief of police may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the city and that such tags are serially numbered,
and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags. (1990 Code § 15-
222)
   B.   Copies Deemed Lawful Complaint: In the event the form of citation
provided herein includes information and is sworn to, then such citation, when
filed with the municipal court, shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for
the purpose of prosecution under this section. (1990 Code § 15-223)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Citation Attached To Parked Vehicle: If a
violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of days as specified on the
citation, the clerk of the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the
violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for the
specified period of days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion
where two (2) or more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same
motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of
arrest may be issued without sending the letter provided in this subsection.
(1990 Code § 15-224)
   D.   Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking:
      1.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      2.   The presumption in subsection D1 of this section shall apply only
when the procedure as prescribed in this section has been followed. (1990 Code
§ 15-225)
   E.   Illegal Cancellation Of Citation: It is unlawful for any person to
cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other
than as provided by this section. (1990 Code § 15-226)
   F.   Court Records; Abstract Sent To State:
      1.   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      3.   The municipal judge or court clerk shall not make such a report of a
conviction involving speeding if the speed limit is not exceeded by more than
ten (10) miles per hour.
      4.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state
department of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration
number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture. (1990 Code § 15-227)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 1-11-11 and 1-11-12 of this code.
6-2-6: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   Hand Or Voice:
      1.   Officers of the police department or any officers designated by the
chief of police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      2.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (1990 Code § 15-202)
   B.   Unauthorized Persons: No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to
direct traffic, except in case of emergency where no officer is present. (1990
Code § 15-203)
6-2-7: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (1990 Code § 15-204)
6-2-8: PUBLIC OFFICERS OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county,
city, or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is
unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this title,
except as otherwise permitted in this title by state statute. This title shall
not apply to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the
national guard when performing any military duty. (1990 Code § 15-208)
6-2-9: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under
his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not authorized
under the provisions of the laws of the state to operate such vehicle. (1990
Code § 15-218)
6-2-10: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Mayor: The mayor, subject to any directions which the city
council may give by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the
city and to make temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain
in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   Testing Traffic Control Devices: The mayor may have traffic control
devices tested under actual conditions of traffic. (1990 Code § 15-205)
6-2-11: PUSH CARTS, ANIMALS AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1990 Code § 15-206)
6-2-12: COASTERS, ROLLERSKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
No person upon rollerskates, skateboards, or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not
apply upon any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by
ordinances of the city. (1990 Code § 15-207; amd. 2004 Code)
6-2-13: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS, EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair of
public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flag persons. The
provisions of this title shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles
exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work. (1990 Code § 15-
209)
6-2-14: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Street:
      1.   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the mayor, to close any
street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction.
      2.   In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel, contractor
or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices
and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   Driving Through Area Prohibited; Exception:
      1.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons
entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or property.
Persons having their places of residence or places of business within the
closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own
risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required:
      1.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor, or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public.
      2.   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flag persons, or other traffic control devices which are placed to
regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area. (1990 Code § 15-210)
6-2-15: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Privilege Of Operators Of Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection, but subject to
the conditions stated in this subsection.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is
not endangered; or
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      3.   The exemptions granted in this subsection to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1990 Code §
15-211)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1990 Code § 15-212)
6-2-16: FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any police vehicle, ambulance, civil defense vehicle, fire apparatus, or other
emergency vehicle traveling in response to an emergency call or request closer
than five hundred feet (500'), or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where the emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call.
(1990 Code § 15-213)
6-2-17: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department used
at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (1990 Code § 15-214)
6-2-18: SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS:
   A.   Seat Belts Required:
      1.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated
in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
"passenger car" shall mean "vehicle" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1102, except that "passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used
primarily for farm use and licensed pursuant to state law, 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1134. (1990 Code § 15-552; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a
written verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable
to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system. Subsection A shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is a
route carrier of the U.S. postal service. (1990 Code § 15-552)
   B.   Child Passenger Restraints Required:
      1.   Every driver when transporting a child under four (4) years of age
weighing sixty (60) pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways,
streets or highways of the city shall provide for the protection of the child
by properly using a child passenger restraint system. For purposes of this
subsection, "child passenger restraint system" means an infant or child
passenger restraint system that meets the federal standards as set by 49 CFR
section 571.213.
      2.   Children at least four (4) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt. (1990 Code § 15-552; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   A nonresident driver transporting a child in this state;
         b.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         c.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         d.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use; and
         e.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices.
      4.   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
subsection and give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat belts in the motor
vehicle. A violation of the provisions of this subsection shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   C.   Routine Stops Prohibited: No law enforcement officer shall make routine
stops of motorists for the purpose of enforcing subsection A of this section.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person convicted of violating subsection A of this section shall
be punished by a maximum fine as set by state law or by the city, whichever is
greater, and court costs.
      2.   Any person convicted of violating subsection B of this section shall
be punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00), or the maximum amount allowed by
state law, whichever is greater, and court costs. This fine shall be suspended
in the case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan
of a child passenger restraint system. (1990 Code § 15-552)
6-2-19: USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within the state while using a handheld electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   C.   The department of public safety shall not record or assess points for
violations of this section on any license holder's traffic record maintained by
the department.
   D.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply if the
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   E.   Municipalities may enact and municipal police officers may enforce
ordinances prohibiting and penalizing conduct under the provisions of this
section. The provisions of such ordinances shall be the same as provided for in
this section; the enforcement provisions of those ordinances shall not be more
stringent than those of this section; and the fine and court costs for
municipal ordinance violations shall be the same or a lesser amount as provided
for in this section.
   F.   For the purpose of this section:
   CELLULAR TELEPHONE: An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the federal communications commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: An electronic device that permits the user
to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not include a
device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or
a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail. (Ord. 744, 1-4-2016)
CHAPTER 3
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
6-3-2: School Zones
6-3-3: Basic Rule
6-3-4: Minimum Speed
6-3-5: Compliance With Posted Speeds
6-3-1: SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Compliance; Exceptions: No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed
than twenty five (25) miles per hour in the city, except:
      1.   On designated and numbered state and federal highways, the maximum
is as posted;
      2.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this title;
      3.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      4.   When a different speed limit is established and posted as required
in this title.
   B.   City Authority; Posting Signs: City personnel, subject to such
direction as the mayor and city council may give, by motion or resolution, may
reduce or increase the speed limits provided in this title, and when so done,
appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets
indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (1990 Code § 15-401)
6-3-2: SCHOOL ZONES:
No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than that posted speed per hour
between the hours posted on any street adjacent to any school in a designated
school zone on days when school is in session, unless a different speed limit
or time is otherwise designated and posted. (1990 Code § 15-402)
6-3-3: BASIC RULE:
No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable
or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into consideration, among
other things, the condition of the vehicle, the traffic, roadway surface or
width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of pedestrians in or near
the roadways, and the obstruction of view. No person shall drive any vehicle at
a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured
clear distance ahead. (1990 Code § 15-403)
6-3-4: MINIMUM SPEED:
No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic, except when the slow speed is
unavoidable. (1990 Code § 15-404)
6-3-5: COMPLIANCE WITH POSTED SPEEDS:
Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed
limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess
of the maximum, nor slower than the minimum, except as required by an
authorized officer or in obedience to posted official signs. (1990 Code § 15-
405)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Changing Lanes; Marking Lanes
6-4-2: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway
6-4-3: When Overtaking On Right Permitted
6-4-4: Overtaking Vehicle On Left
6-4-5: Limitations On Overtaking On Left; Exception
6-4-6: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction
6-4-7: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
6-4-8: Following Too Closely
6-4-9: No Passing Zones
6-4-10: Funeral And Other Processions
6-4-11: School Zones; School Bus Regulations
6-4-12: Driving On Sidewalks; Safety Zones
6-4-13: Limitations On Backing Vehicle
6-4-14: Clinging To Vehicles
6-4-15: Entering, Leaving Controlled Access Highways
6-4-16: Reckless Driving
6-4-17: Careless Or Negligent Driving
6-4-18: Attention To Driving Required
6-4-19: Driving In Careful And Prudent Manner
6-4-20: Speed Contests
6-4-21: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-4-22: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-4-23: Obstructing Driver's View
6-4-24: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicle
6-4-25: Unlawful Riding
6-4-26: Private Service Drives
6-4-27: Approaching Or Entering Intersection
6-4-28: Turning Left At Intersection
6-4-29: Approaching Yield Right Of Way Sign
6-4-30: Entering Through Highway
6-4-31: Facing Traffic Signals
6-4-32: Stop And Through Streets, Intersections
6-4-33: Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
6-4-34: Entering Traffic From Parking
6-4-35: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
6-4-36: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
6-4-37: Railroad Crossings
6-4-1: CHANGING LANES; MARKING LANES:
   A.   Marked Traffic Lanes: Whenever any roadway has been divided into two
(2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules
consistent with this subsection, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practical entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane
until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety and has signalled for a change of course.
   B.   Unmarked Traffic Lanes: Where streets or roadways do not have marked
traffic lanes, vehicles shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight
course as nearly as practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side
to side unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as
necessary in slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving
vehicles or making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver
has first ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signalled
for a change of course.
   C.   Three Lane Roadways: Upon a roadway which has been divided into three
(3) lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively
to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted
to give notice of such allocation.
   D.   Slow Moving Traffic: Official signs may be erected directing slow
moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used
by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway. Drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(1990 Code § 15-501)
6-4-2: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Driving On Right; Exceptions: Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a
vehicle shall be driven to the right of the center of the roadway, except as
follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Divided Roadways: All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all
streets or highways which are divided into two (2) roadways.
   C.   Slow Moving Vehicles: Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less
than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions
then existing shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for
traffic, or as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway. (1990 Code § 15-502)
6-4-3: WHEN OVERTAKING ON RIGHT PERMITTED:
   A.   Conditions For Overtaking On Right: The driver of a vehicle may
overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following
conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
      3.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   Driving Safely: The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
vehicle upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement in
safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or
main traveled portion of the roadway. (1990 Code § 15-503)
6-4-4: OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON LEFT:
   A.   Passing At Safe Distance: The driver of a vehicle overtaking another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the street or
roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Overtaken Vehicle: Except when overtaking and passing on the right is
permitted, the driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in
favor of the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the
speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1990
Code § 15-504)
6-4-5: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON LEFT; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
      2.   In every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right
hand side of the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
   B.   Prohibitive Conditions: No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the
left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is obstructed;
or
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (1990 Code § 15-505)
6-4-6: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1990 Code §
15-506)
6-4-7: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   Designation By City Personnel: City personnel, subject to any direction
given by the city council by motion or resolution, may designate any road,
street, alley, or highway, or any separate roadway under their jurisdiction for
one-way traffic and shall cause appropriate signs giving notice thereof, to be
erected.
   B.   Signposting Required: Whenever the city designates any street or alley
or part thereof as a one-way street or alley, city personnel shall have placed
and maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   C.   Compliance With Signs: Upon those streets and parts of streets and in
those alleys and parts of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the direction indicated when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   D.   Driving In Designated Direction: Upon roadways designated and
signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction
designated.
   E.   Rotary Traffic Islands: A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island shall be driven only to the right of such island. (1990 Code § 15-507)
6-4-8: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (1990 Code §
15-508)
6-4-9: NO PASSING ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Determine: The state department of highways, as regards
state and federal highways, and the mayor as regards all other streets, are
hereby authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking
and passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof. (1990 Code §
15-509; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Compliance Required: Where signs or markings are in place to define a
no passing zone as set forth in subsection A of this section, no driver shall
at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within the no passing zone or
on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone
throughout its length. (1990 Code § 15-509)
6-4-10: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this chapter. This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (1990 Code § 15-510)
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe. (1990 Code §
15-511)
   C.   Identification: A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by headlights or as may be determined and designated by the police
department. (1990 Code § 15-512)
6-4-11: SCHOOL ZONES; SCHOOL BUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Overtaking, Passing In School Zones:
      1.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in
motion and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the
hours posted on all days when schools are in session.
      2.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (1990 Code § 15-513)
   B.   Overtaking And Passing School Bus:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, shall stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants.
      2.   The driver of any vehicle, when passing a school bus, shall use due
caution for the safety of school children and other occupants of the school
bus.
      3.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right of way when
crossing the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (1990 Code § 15-
514)
   C.   School Bus Requirements; Color And Equipment:
      1.   The provisions of subsection B of this section shall be applicable
only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height which can be removed or covered when the
vehicle is not in use as a school bus.
      2.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately
flashing warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the
front and two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (1990
Code § 15-515)
6-4-12: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS; SAFETY ZONES:
   A.   Sidewalks: No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any
sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1990 Code § 15-
516)
   B.   Safety Zones: No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within
a safety zone or island. (1990 Code § 15-527)
6-4-13: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic. No
vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. (1990 Code § 15-517)
6-4-14: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a roadway. (1990
Code § 15-520)
6-4-15: ENTERING, LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority. (1990 Code § 15-
521)
6-4-16: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 15-522)
6-4-17: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked,
or stop any vehicle:
   A.   In a careless manner;
   B.   In a negligent manner;
   C.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   D.   In such a manner or condition as to interfere with the lawful movement
of traffic or use of the streets. (1990 Code § 15-523)
6-4-18: ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED:
The operator of every vehicle while driving upon the streets and highways of
the city shall devote full time and attention to such driving. (1990 Code § 15-
524)
6-4-19: DRIVING IN CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER:
Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(1990 Code § 15-525)
6-4-20: SPEED CONTESTS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle
speed contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   Barricades Or Obstructions: No person shall, for the purpose of
facilitating or aiding or as an incident to any motor vehicle speed contest
upon any street or highway, in any manner obstruct or place any barricade or
obstruction upon any street or highway.
   C.   Offenses: When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or
participate in an unlawful speed contest, such assembly is "unlawful assembly"
and any person who participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an
offense. (1990 Code § 15-526)
6-4-21: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1990 Code § 15-
528)
6-4-22: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1990 Code § 15-529)
6-4-23: OBSTRUCTING DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-530)
6-4-24: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1990 Code § 15-531)
6-4-25: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1990 Code § 15-532)
6-4-26: PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES:
No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area, except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise. (1990 Code § 15-533)
6-4-27: APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection
from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right;
however, the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or federal
highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway shall stop
and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection or
which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   The right of way rule declared in subsection A of this section is
modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this chapter. (1990 Code §
15-536)
6-4-28: TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this title, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1990 Code §
15-537)
6-4-29: APPROACHING YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGN:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a "Yield Right Of Way" sign shall slow to a
reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding
the right of way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway which
have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (1990 Code § 15-538)
6-4-30: ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY:
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this title at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard. (1990 Code § 15-539)
6-4-31: FACING TRAFFIC SIGNALS:
If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   If each vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right of way.
   B.   If each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right
shall have the right of way.
   C.   If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right of way.
   D.   If one vehicle is required to slow and the other to take caution, the
one required to take caution shall have the right of way.
   E.   In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the intersection
shall have the right of way over one which has not entered the intersection.
(1990 Code § 15-540)
6-4-32: STOP AND THROUGH STREETS, INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets:
      1.   City personnel, subject to such direction as the city council may
give, may designate any street or part of a street a through street.
      2.   Whenever the city designates and describes a through street, the
stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic control signals.
      3.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the city if deemed desirable. (1990 Code § 15-541)
   B.   Determination Of Intersections: The mayor, subject to any directions
given by the city council by motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to
determine and designate intersections upon other than through streets where
particular hazards exist and to determine whether:
      1.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
      2.   Vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this title, in which event he shall cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required. (1990 Code § 15-542)
   C.   Sign Construction And Placement: Every stop or yield sign erected
pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word "Stop" or "Yield" in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height for a stop sign and not less than seven
inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every stop or yield sign shall at night
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or yield sign shall be located as
close as practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then the sign shall be located
at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1990 Code § 15-543)
   D.   Entering Stop Intersection: Except when directed by a police officer or
traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection, indicated by a stop sign, shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection. In the event there is no
crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line before entering
the intersection. If there is no marked stop line, then the driver shall stop
at the point nearest the intersecting road where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. A driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or road, or
which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard; but the driver
having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the vehicle so
proceeding. (1990 Code § 15-544)
   E.   Entering Yield Intersection: The driver of a vehicle approaching a
yield sign shall, in observance to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable
for the existing conditions or shall stop, if necessary, and shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another road
so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded
may then proceed and drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding. A driver who enters a yield
intersection without stopping and has or causes a collision with a pedestrian
at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection shall prima facie be considered
not to have yielded as required herein. The provisions of this subsection shall
not release the drivers of other vehicles approaching the intersection at such
a distance as not to constitute immediate hazard from the duty to drive with
due care to avoid a collision. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign, if required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection before entering the intersection; if there
is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if
there is no stop line, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (1990
Code § 15-545)
6-4-33: ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a
private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway. (1990 Code § 15-546)
6-4-34: ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING:
Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield
the right of way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear.
The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver
has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from
the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the
line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists. (1990
Code § 15-547)
6-4-35: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alley way or driveway, and shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and,
upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway. (1990 Code § 15-548)
6-4-36: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (1990 Code § 15-549)
6-4-37: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until
he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (1990 Code § 15-550)
   B.   Certain Vehicles Stop At Crossings:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
      2.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1990 Code § 15-551)
CHAPTER 5
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Turning Markers Or Indicators
6-5-2: Designation Of Restricted Turns
6-5-3: Obedience To No-Turn Signs
6-5-4: U-Turns
6-5-5: Position And Method Of Turning
6-5-6: Turning Movements And Required Signals
6-5-7: Giving Turn Signals
6-5-1: TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS:
   A.   City Authority: The mayor, subject to any directions given by the city
council by motion or resolution, is authorized to place markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so
indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers: When authorized markers, buttons, or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications. (1990 Code § 15-901)
6-5-2: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS:
The mayor is hereby authorized to determine those street intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall have
proper signs placed at intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where turns are
restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs, or such signs may be removed when turns are
permitted. (1990 Code § 15-902)
6-5-3: OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn
is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of any
such sign. (1990 Code § 15-903)
6-5-4: U-TURNS:
   A.   Prohibited Places: The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle
so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city at the
following locations:
      1.   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter's
direction; or
      3.   At any other location where an official "No U-Turn" has been placed
and is maintained.
   B.   Manner Of Making U-Turns: A U-turn may be made only when it can be made
in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-
turn, except in the following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right of way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn is completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-904)
6-5-5: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   A.   Right Turn: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   B.   Left Turns:
      1.   On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is permitted
to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection, the
approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the
street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the center line
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      2.   On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the driver of a
vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall approach the
intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving
in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the intersection, the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as nearby as
practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such
direction upon roadway being entered. (1990 Code § 15-905)
6-5-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   Proper Position: No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection
unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in
section
6-5-5 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   B.   Signal Intention To Turn: A signal of intention to turn right or left,
slow or stop when required, shall be given continuously during not less than
the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or
stopping.
   C.   Stop Or Decrease Speed: No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the
speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner
provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there
is opportunity to give the signal. (1990 Code § 15-906)
6-5-7: GIVING TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   Means Of Giving Turn Signals:
      1.   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical device of
a type approved by the Oklahoma department of public safety, except as provided
in subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required signal given by,
signal lamps or devices when:
         a.   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
         b.   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be
visible both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
         c.   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any
vehicle projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the
steering post. (1990 Code § 15-907)
   B.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
      2.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
      3.   Stop Or Decrease Speed: Hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear. (1990 Code § 15-908)
CHAPTER 6
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-6-1: Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
6-6-2: Application Of Regulations
6-6-3: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-6-4: Handicapped Parking
6-6-5: Authority To Establish Parking Time Limits
6-6-6: Limited Time Parking In Certain Areas
6-6-7: Brakes Set; Motor Turned Off
6-6-8: Angle Parking
6-6-9: Parallel Parking
6-6-10: Parking Within Marked Spaces
6-6-11: Permit For Loading, Unloading At Angle
6-6-12: Hazardous Or Congested Places
6-6-13: Blocking Intersection Or Crosswalk
6-6-14: One-Way Streets, Roadways
6-6-15: Adjacent To Schools
6-6-16: Parking Prohibited At Intersections
6-6-17: Blocking Streets, Driveways
6-6-18: Entry On Private Property; Trespass
6-6-19: Main Traveled Portion Of Roadway
6-6-20: Double Parking
6-6-21: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-6-22: Negligent Parking
6-6-1: ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter governing,
limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for such violation
shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-701)
6-6-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device. (1990
Code § 15-702)
6-6-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   Places Enumerated: No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle,
except in emergencies or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street; (1990 Code § 15-711)
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway underpass; or (1990 Code § 15-711; amd. 2004 Code)
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his
control into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
(1990 Code § 15-711)
6-6-4: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Parking In Handicapped Area: It is unlawful for any person to place or
park a motor vehicle in any parking space on private property accessible to the
public and where the public is invited or public property that is designated
and posted as a reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of a physically
disabled person unless such person has a physical disability insignia as under
the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, and such insignia is
displayed as provided in said statute section 15-112, or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto. (1990 Code § 15-726)
      1.   Effective February 1, 2010, the posted signage for every parking
space that is designated and posted as a reserved area for the parking of a
motor vehicle operated by or transporting a physically disabled person shall
display sign R7-8, as provided in the latest edition of the "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" published by the federal highway administration of the
United States department of transportation, which includes the words "RESERVED
PARKING" and the blue and white international symbol of access. Van accessible
physically disabled reserved parking spaces shall also display sign R7-8a
immediately below sign R7-8. The provisions of this section shall be considered
an addition to any federal or state law, rule or regulation regarding the
signage requirements for physically disabled parking spaces and shall not limit
or amend any other applicable laws, rules or regulations. The blue and white
international symbol of access, accompanied by appropriate language including,
but not limited to, "Handicapped Parking", "Reserved For Handicapped" and
"Permit Required - Towing Enforced" may be used in lieu of sign R7-8 if the
sign was erected prior to January 1, 2010. (Ord. 699, 2-1-2010)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 15-726)
6-6-5: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PARKING TIME LIMITS:
City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless
a sign is erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation. (1990 Code
§ 15-703)
6-6-6: LIMITED TIME PARKING IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   Forty Eight Hour Time Limit: No person shall park any vehicle or
trailer on any street for a period of time longer than forty eight (48) hours.
This subsection shall not affect parking limits established for shorter
periods. (1990 Code § 15-704)
   B.   Two Hour Limit; Business District:
      1.   Parking Time Limit Specified: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to park a vehicle on the downtown business streets in
excess of two (2) hours between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. any day of the week except Sunday.
      2.   Penalty Imposed; Towing Vehicle: The penalty for violation of this
subsection shall be five dollars ($5.00) for each separate distinct violation,
and the penalty for parking a vehicle in said district in excess of four (4)
hours shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00); and if said vehicle is not moved
after a period of four (4) hours, the police department is authorized and
directed to have said vehicle towed away and stored at the expense of the
person, firm or corporation owning said vehicle. (Ord. 454A, 2-5-1990)
6-6-7: BRAKES SET; MOTOR TURNED OFF:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (1990 Code
§ 15-705)
6-6-8: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Determination Of Parking Areas: The mayor, subject to any directions
given by the city council by motion or resolution, shall determine upon what
streets and parts of streets angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have
such streets marked or signed. (1990 Code § 15-706)
   B.   Obedience To Signs Or Markings: On those streets which have been so
signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings. (1990 Code § 15-707)
6-6-9: PARALLEL PARKING:
   A.   Distance From Curb: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or
parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent
curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (1990 Code § 15-723)
   B.   Right Of Way To Parallel Parking Space:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking
space where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by
another vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until
the vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
      2.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of
an unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right of way to such parking space. (1990
Code § 15-725)
6-6-10: PARKING WITHIN MARKED SPACES:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (1990 Code § 15-708)
6-6-11: PERMIT FOR LOADING, UNLOADING AT ANGLE:
   A.   Special Permit Issuance: The mayor is authorized to issue special
permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and
conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or
lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such
person the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. The mayor may
revoke such permits at any time.
   B.   Compliance With Terms Of Permit: It is unlawful for any permittee or
other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (1990 Code § 15-709)
6-6-12: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   Determination By City Personnel: City personnel are hereby authorized
to determine and regulate by proper signs the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles when such stopping, standing or parking would create an especially
hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as authorized in subsection A of this section, no person
shall violate such signs. (1990 Code § 15-710)
6-6-13: BLOCKING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed. (1990 Code § 15-712)
6-6-14: ONE-WAY STREETS, ROADWAYS:
   A.   One-Way Roadways:
      1.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
      2.   The city council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (1990 Code § 15-713)
   B.   Left Side Of One-Way Streets: City personnel may have signs erected
upon the left hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles. When the signs are in place, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (1990 Code § 15-714)
6-6-15: ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   Authority Of City Personnel: City personnel may have signs erected
indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any
school property when such parking would, in their opinion, interfere with
traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: No person shall park a vehicle in violation of
any such signs. (1990 Code § 15-715)
6-6-16: PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS:
The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be prohibited
twenty feet (20') in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection. (1990 Code § 15-716; amd. 2004 Code)
6-6-17: BLOCKING STREETS, DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet (20') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1990 Code § 15-717)
6-6-18: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS:
   A.   Consent Required: No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon
real property owned or legally occupied by another without the owner's or
occupant's consent, except where such private property is provided as public
parking and the general use of the property is not restricted by signs or
proper markings.
   B.   Complaint By Owner: Where entry is made upon real property owned or
legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except
on unrestricted public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal
occupant of the premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to
show that permission for such entry was given. (1990 Code § 15-718)
6-6-19: MAIN TRAVELED PORTION OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Parking Prohibited Except For Loading Or Unloading: Upon any street, no
person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the street when it is
practical to stop, park, or leave the vehicle off such parts of the street,
except that delivery vehicles, either loading or unloading, may park in the
center of Main Street, headed east, while in the process of loading or
unloading and making delivery or pick up at any local business establishment.
   B.   Disabled Vehicle: This section shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a
street in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position. (1990
Code § 15-719)
6-6-20: DOUBLE PARKING:
   A.   Prohibition; Exceptions: No vehicle shall be double parked on any
street within the city limits, except in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, or traffic control device, or except when necessary to avoid
conflict with another vehicle.
   B.   Delivery Vehicles: Delivery vehicles, either loading or unloading, may
double park in the right hand lane while in the process of loading or unloading
and making delivery to local business establishments; provided, that the driver
of the delivery vehicle shall keep a lookout for cars and vehicles needing or
attempting to move away from the curb and shall move his delivery vehicle as
soon as possible to permit the parked vehicles to be moved; and further
provided, that the double parking shall be permitted only so long as both
traffic lanes are not blocked. (1990 Code § 15-720)
6-6-21: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   C.   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (1990 Code § 15-722)
6-6-22: NEGLIGENT PARKING:
No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any vehicle
as follows:
   A.   In a careless or negligent manner;
   B.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   C.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets. (1990 Code § 15-724)
CHAPTER 7
LOADING ZONES 1
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Curb Loading Zones, Designation
6-7-3: Zones Used Only For Designated Purpose
6-7-4: Parking In Loading Zones
6-7-5: Public Carrier Stops And Stands, Designation
6-7-6: Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
6-7-7: Parking Of Buses And Taxicabs
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-9-6 of this title.
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE:
   A.   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner or
his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used during normal
business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight and
which bears a regular state commercial license tag.
   B.   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during normal
business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight, and
which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear of
the vehicle attached to the state license plate, together with an identically
numbered decal, issued to the vehicle.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers, except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles. (1990
Code § 15-801)
6-7-2: CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION:
   A.   Designation Of Zones: The mayor, subject to any directions given by the
city council by motion or resolution, may determine the location of passenger
and freight curb loading zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate
signs indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of
this section are applicable.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in
violation of signs erected in accordance with this section.
   C.   Request For Zone; Costs To Applicant: If any loading zone is
established on request of any person, the signs shall not be placed until the
applicant pays to the city an amount of money estimated by the city council to
be adequate to reimburse the city for all costs of establishing and signing the
same. (1990 Code § 15-802)
6-7-3: ZONES USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE:
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(1990 Code § 15-803)
6-7-4: PARKING IN LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Passenger Curb Loading Zones: No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone for any purpose or period of time
other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, during the
hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are effective,
and then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes. (1990 Code § 15-
804)
   B.   Freight Curb Loading Zones:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes.
Vehicles using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone. (1990
Code § 15-805)
6-7-5: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS, DESIGNATION:
The mayor may establish loading zones for common carriers, including, but not
limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in such places
and in such number as he shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs. (1990 Code § 15-806)
6-7-6: USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop,
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does
not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the
zone. (1990 Code § 15-807)
6-7-7: PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS:
   A.   Buses:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided herein,
except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   B.   Taxicabs: The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such
vehicle upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated as provided herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (1990 Code § 15-808)
CHAPTER 8
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Authority To Install Devices
6-8-2: Uniform Requirements
6-8-3: Obedience To Official Devices
6-8-4: When Required For Enforcement Purposes
6-8-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
6-8-6: Pedestrian Control Signals
6-8-7: Flashing Signals
6-8-8: School Crossing Signals, Pedestrian Activated
6-8-9: Unauthorized Devices Prohibited
6-8-10: Defacement Of Devices
6-8-11: Play Streets
6-8-12: Crosswalks And Safety Zones, Designation
6-8-13: Traffic Lanes
6-8-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL DEVICES:
City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs, signals,
and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the city to
make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed and
maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals, and devices as he
may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city
or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. (1990 Code § 15-601)
6-8-2: UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conformance With State Manual: All traffic control signs, signals, and
devices shall conform to the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
approved by the state department of public safety.
   B.   Uniformity Of Signs: All signs, signals, and devices required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and
relative location throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and
not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be
official traffic control devices. (1990 Code § 15-602)
6-8-3: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (1990 Code § 15-603)
6-8-4: WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES:
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1990 Code § 15-604)
6-8-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   A.   Green Alone, "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right of way over such vehicular traffic; and
      2.   Pedestrian traffic facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a "walk" signal
indicator is operating.
   B.   Steady Yellow Or Amber Alone, "Caution":
      1.   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the "red" or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
      2.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the "caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "red" signal flashes.
   C.   Red Alone, "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or "go" is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
"go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian "walk" signal.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic lane
may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
the arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "walk"
signal.
   E.   Green Arrows Alone: Whenever vehicular traffic movements are controlled
by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal indication,
vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by the green
arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed. (1990 Code § 15-605)
6-8-6: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk", "wait" or
"don't walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
   A.   "Walk": Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   B.   "Wait" Or "Don't Walk": No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "wait" signal is showing. (1990 Code § 15-606)
6-8-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Red Or Yellow Signals: Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is
illuminated, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   "Flashing Red": When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      2.   "Flashing Yellow": When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(1990 Code § 15-607)
6-8-8: SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS, PEDESTRIAN ACTIVATED:
Whenever a pedestrian activated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution.
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "stop" signal is exhibited.
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone.
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1990 Code § 15-608)
6-8-9: UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Similarity To Traffic Signs: No person shall place, maintain, or
display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking,
or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   B.   Commercial Advertising: No person shall place or maintain nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device
bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Directional Information Allowed: This section shall not prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information which are of a type that cannot be mistaken for
official signs.
   D.   Removal: Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be
removed without notice. (1990 Code § 15-609)
6-8-10: DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or
in fact alter, destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down,
remove or have in his possession any traffic control device or any railroad
sign or signal or an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
   B.   Exempted Persons: This chapter shall not apply to any of the following
persons when acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      1.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      2.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (1990 Code § 15-
610)
6-8-11: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: City personnel, subject to any directions given
by the city council, shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof
a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. (1990 Code § 15-611)
   B.   Use Restricted: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
any such street or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business
or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(1990 Code § 15-612)
6-8-12: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES, DESIGNATION:
Authorized city personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council,
may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in their opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as deemed necessary; and
   B.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1990 Code §
15-613)
6-8-13: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   Marking Lanes: City personnel, subject to any directions given by the
city council, may be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway
of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Driving Within Marked Lanes: Where such traffic lanes have been marked,
it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing
another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise
authorized by ordinance. (1990 Code § 15-614)
CHAPTER 9
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION; TRUCK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Vehicles Injurious To Streets
6-9-2: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
6-9-3: Equipment
6-9-4: Mufflers, Cutouts
6-9-5: Size And Load
6-9-6: Truck Routes Established; Truck Regulations
6-9-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street. (1990 Code § 15-301)
6-9-2: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (1990 Code §
15-302)
6-9-3: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped
as required by law.
   B.   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city which is
not equipped as required by law.
   C.   It is unlawful to fail to use such equipment in the manner required by
law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by law.
   D.   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by
law upon a street of the city. (1990 Code § 15-303)
6-9-4: MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall not at all
times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise. No muffler
cutout, bypass or similar muffler elimination device, exhaust or vacuum whistle
shall be used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city; however,
exhaust whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (1990 Code § 15-
304)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-11-12C of this title.
6-9-5: SIZE AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (1990 Code § 15-305)
6-9-6: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED; TRUCK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Truck Routes; Establishment And Use:
      1.   The city council may prescribe routes through the city for the use
of trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds or other vehicles which are
not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city.
      2.   Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so
that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so
erected and in place, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route
has been prescribed, as provided above, while passing through the city, shall
keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in case of
emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as
practicable also when driving within the city and not merely through the city.
(1990 Code § 15-534)
   B.   Truck Parking: It is unlawful for any person to park a truck of over
one ton capacity, or a trailer over twenty feet (20') in length, for more than
three (3) consecutive hours on any street or alley in the city.
   C.   Transporting Hazardous Materials: It is unlawful to park, store or
otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle which is used for the purpose of
transporting or delivering flammable and combustible liquids as defined by the
Fire Prevention Code and trucks or other vehicles which are used for the
transportation and delivery of liquefied petroleum gases in any area within the
City. However, the trucks and vehicles restricted in this subsection may be
temporarily parked at locations otherwise zoned for the purpose of loading and
unloading flammable and combustible liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a
period not to exceed one and one-half (11/2) hours during any twenty four (24)
hour period. (1990 Code § 15-721)
   D.   Securing Or Covering Loads On Vehicles:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
      2.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders, or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-535)
   E.   Truck Traffic:
      1.   "Large truck" is defined as including a "semi-tractor truck with
trailer" and is also defined as including a "ten (10) wheel dump truck".
      2.   A "large truck" (as defined above) is prohibited from proceeding
onto Pleasant Valley Road between the westerly right- of-way of Broadway Avenue
where it joins Pleasant Valley Road to the easterly right-of-way of the Cavanal
Scenic Expressway (commonly known as the "Poteau Bypass") where it joins
Pleasant Valley Road. In other words, large truck traffic is prohibited on the
portion of Pleasant Valley Road that lies between Broadway Avenue and the
Cavanal Scenic Expressway (commonly known as the "Poteau Bypass").
      3.   Any person who knowingly violates this subsection E is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 769, 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signals
6-10-2: Crosswalks
6-10-3: Crossing At Right Angles
6-10-4: Yield By Pedestrians
6-10-5: Walking Along Roadways
6-10-6: Soliciting From Vehicle Occupants
6-10-7: Drivers Exercise Due Care
6-10-8: Crossing Prohibited
6-10-9: Obedience To Railroad Signals
6-10-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in this
title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1990 Code § 15-1001)
6-10-2: CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Right Of Way:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
         a.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         b.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
The provisions of this subsection A1 are not applicable under conditions where
pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
or walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
      3.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any
unmarked crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake to pass such stopped vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-1002)
   B.   Use Right Half Of Crosswalk: Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a
crosswalk, shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of the
crosswalk. (1990 Code § 15-1003)
6-10-3: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a
crosswalk. (1990 Code § 15-1004)
6-10-4: YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited. (1990 Code § 15-1005)
6-10-5: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or
its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (1990 Code § 15-1006)
6-10-6: SOLICITING FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS:
No person shall:
   A.   Stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride, donations,
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   Stand in any street or roadway, or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street.
   C.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle.
   D.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift.
   E.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway, attempt
to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar purpose.
(1990 Code § 15-1007)
6-10-7: DRIVERS EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway. (1990 Code § 15-1008)
6-10-8: CROSSING PROHIBITED:
Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk. (1990 Code § 15-1009)
6-10-9: OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (1990 Code § 15-1010)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES; MOTOR SCOOTERS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Application Of Provisions
6-11-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-11-3: Riding On Bicycles
6-11-4: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-11-5: Speed Of Bicycle
6-11-6: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
6-11-7: Carrying Articles
6-11-8: Parking
6-11-9: Riding On Sidewalks
6-11-10: Lamps And Equipment On Bicycles
6-11-11: Use Limits On Motorcycles, Motor Scooters, Bicycles
6-11-12: Motorcycle Equipment; Headgear
6-11-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Bicycle Regulations: The provisions of this chapter
shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public
way; or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated in this chapter. (1990 Code § 15-1101)
   B.   Application Of Traffic Laws To Bicycles: Every person riding a bicycle
upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state and the
traffic provisions of this code applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to special regulations in this chapter, except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature are inapplicable to such persons.
(1990 Code § 15-1102)
6-11-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians. (1990 Code § 15-1103)
6-11-3: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Ride Upon Seat: No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Carrying Passengers: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1990 Code §
15-1104)
6-11-4: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Riding To Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon
a roadway shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle
proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Riding Two Abreast: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Use Of Bicycle Paths: If usable paths for bicycles are provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use
the roadway. (1990 Code § 15-1105)
6-11-5: SPEED OF BICYCLE:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1990 Code § 15-1106)
6-11-6: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways. (1990 Code § 15-1107)
6-11-7: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars. (1990 Code
§ 15-1108)
6-11-8: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1990 Code § 15-1109)
6-11-9: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Business District: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   B.   Council Authority To Prohibit: The city council, by motion or
resolution, is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   C.   Yield To Pedestrians: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1990 Code §
15-1110)
6-11-10: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Lights Or Reflectors: Bicycles in use at night shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the
rear of a type which shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred
feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   Siren, Whistle Prohibited: A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor
shall any person use, any siren or whistle.
   C.   Brake: Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1990
Code § 15-1111; amd. 2004 Code)
6-11-11: USE LIMITS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS, BICYCLES:
   A.   Carrying Passengers: No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel
motor vehicle or bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such
vehicle on any street or highway, except as provided in this section:
      1.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a
double seating device with double foot rests or a side car attachment providing
a separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      2.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   B.   Motorcycles And Motor Scooters Prohibited On Sidewalks: No motorcycle
or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the city.
   C.   Attaching To Moving Vehicles: No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or
motor scooter shall hold onto any moving vehicle for the purpose of being
propelled.
   D.   Riding On Seat: A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor
driven cycle, or motor bicycle, shall ride only on the permanent and regular
seat attached thereto.
   E.   Passing Vehicles Between Lanes Of Traffic: No driver of a motorcycle or
motor scooter shall pass other vehicles in between lanes of traffic traveling
in the same direction. Authorized emergency vehicles are excepted from the
provisions of this subsection.
   F.   Hours Restricted; Underage Persons: No person under the age of sixteen
(16) shall operate any motorcycle, motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the
city between and during the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and
four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the next day. (1990 Code § 15-518)
6-11-12: MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT; HEADGEAR:
   A.   Required Equipment: In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles
and motor scooters shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment.
      2.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
      3.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application
of the service brake.
      4.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided.
      5.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer.
      6.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead.
      7.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects. (1990 Code § 15-519)
   B.   Headgear: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or
ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped
with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of a type which complies with
standards established by 59 CFR section 571.218. All such helmets shall consist
of lining, padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the
view of the driver. (1990 Code § 15-519; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Exhaust System 1 : No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter
with the exhaust system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than
that of the original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the
vehicle. (1990 Code § 15-519)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-9-4 of this title.
CHAPTER 12
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT 1
SECTION:
6-12-1: Purpose
6-12-2: Place Of Impoundment
6-12-3: Duration Of Impoundment
6-12-4: Police Authority
6-12-5: Disabled Vehicles
6-12-6: Vehicles On Bridge
6-12-7: Arrest And Detention Of Driver
6-12-8: Traffic Hazard
6-12-9: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
6-12-10: Overtime Parking
6-12-11: Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
6-12-12: Parking In Intersection
6-12-13: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
6-12-14: Outstanding Traffic Citations
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 5 of this code.
6-12-1: PURPOSE:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1990 Code § 15-1301)
6-12-2: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the city
and to no other place. (1990 Code § 15-1302)
6-12-3: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Order For Release: Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded
under the authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an
order for its release is received from an officer of the traffic violations
bureau or other proper police officer.
   B.   Payment Of Costs: The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be
conditioned upon the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
(1990 Code § 15-1303)
6-12-4: POLICE AUTHORITY:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter. (1990 Code § 15-1304)
6-12-5: DISABLED VEHICLES:
A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   A.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   B.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(1990 Code § 15-1305)
6-12-6: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or underpass, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded. (1990 Code § 15-1306; amd. 2004 Code)
6-12-7: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leave
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded, unless the driver or person in charge can provide immediately for
the vehicle's custody or removal. (1990 Code § 15-1307)
6-12-8: TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (1990 Code § 15-1308)
6-12-9: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   Impoundment Upon Complaint: An unattended vehicle found to be in
violation of this title may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed as provided in this section.
   B.   Filing Of Complaint: If a violation of the provisions of this title
occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint
against the person parking the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's
property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then
the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The
complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the
owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or
standing.
   C.   Police Impoundment: Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner
or legal occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the
provisions of this title have been violated, the police department shall cause
the vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage. (1990 Code
§ 15-1309)
6-12-10: OVERTIME PARKING:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this title, regarding more than forty eight (48)
hours, shall be impounded. (1990 Code § 15-1310)
6-12-11: BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (1990 Code § 15-1311)
6-12-12: PARKING IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (1990 Code § 15-
1312)
6-12-13: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Removal By Police: Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and
the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one
hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying
media in the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of
stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the
location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police
department.
   B.   Owner Responsibility: If the registered owner is identified, located
and notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given
the right to make his own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the
period of one hour from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and
if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time
specified, the vehicle may be impounded. (1990 Code § 15-1313)
6-12-14: OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this title. (1990 Code § 15-1314)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET USE AND OBSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-2: Obstructing With Merchandise
7-1-3: Interference With Pedestrian And Vehicular Traffic
7-1-4: Playing On Streets
7-1-5: Water From Filling Stations, Other Businesses
7-1-6: Responsibility For Hazardous Conditions
7-1-7: Drainage Obstruction
7-1-8: Injuring; Driving Over Curbing And Crossings
7-1-9: Vehicle Owner Responsible For Damage To Street
7-1-10: Protecting Trees From Insects And Worms
7-1-11: Notice To Clean Sidewalks; Failure To Comply
7-1-12: Penalty
7-1-1: TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Trimming Required:
      1.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the city shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
      2.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in subsection A of this section, after
receiving five (5) days' notice from the head of the department in charge of
streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense against the city. Every day
that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or
shrubbery, after the expiration of the five (5) days' notice, shall be a
separate offense. (1990 Code § 14-101)
   B.   Injuring: It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
on a street or alley in the city; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1990 Code §
14-102)
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTING WITH MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Obstruction Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways,
streets and alleys of the city any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any
other obstruction, and leave same thereon; or to use the same as a place to
carry on a business or trade, except as provided in subsection B of this
section. (1990 Code § 14-103; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Exception: It is lawful for an owner or occupant of premises abutting
on a sidewalk in the city to store on the sidewalk goods, wares and merchandise
if a space at least six feet (6') in width is left clear for passage of traffic
or pedestrians. Such goods, wares and merchandise may not be stored or
displayed on the sidewalk in such a manner that vehicles parking at the curb
could be damaged thereby. Such goods, wares and merchandise must be removed by
the owner or occupant of the premises at least once during each twenty four
(24) hour period. (1990 Code § 14-112)
7-1-3: INTERFERENCE WITH PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the city in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(1990 Code § 14-104)
7-1-4: PLAYING ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the city, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (1990
Code § 14-105)
7-1-5: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS, OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (1990 Code § 14-106)
7-1-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area. (1990 Code § 14-107)
7-1-7: DRAINAGE OBSTRUCTION:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter. (1990 Code § 14-109)
7-1-8: INJURING; DRIVING OVER CURBING AND CROSSINGS:
Any person who shall wilfully or wantonly cut, break or remove, or in any
manner displace, any curbing or guttering, or who shall recklessly or
intentionally drive any vehicle loaded with asphalt materials, lumber or
building materials of any kind into or on the curbing or concrete guttering of
any paved street shall be guilty of an offense. (1990 Code § 14-110)
7-1-9: VEHICLE OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGE TO STREET:
The owner, driver, operator or mover of any vehicle over any street or alley of
the city, and specifically vehicles of a load weight in excess of passenger
automobiles and light delivery trucks, shall be responsible for all damages
which streets or alleys may sustain as a result of the use thereof by such
vehicles. This shall not be applicable to deterioration caused by normal
vehicular use of such streets and alleys. The amount of such damage may be
recovered in an action in the court of proper jurisdiction in the name of the
city. (1990 Code § 14-111)
7-1-10: PROTECTING TREES FROM INSECTS AND WORMS:
Each owner, agent, or occupant in front of or on whose lots shade trees have
been planted or are growing shall use every reasonable precaution to protect
the same from insects and worms. (1990 Code § 14-113)
7-1-11: NOTICE TO CLEAN SIDEWALKS; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If any property owner, occupant or agent of such property shall fail or refuse
to repair or clean off the sidewalk abutting or adjacent to the property owned
or occupied by him within seventy two (72) hours after notice served on him by
any police officer, health officer, or any other agent of the city, the
property owner, occupant or agent so failing or refusing, after notice so to
do, to repair or clean off such sidewalk shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(1990 Code § 14-108)
7-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 14-115)
CHAPTER 2
STREET EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Fee
7-2-2: Duties Upon Completion Of Work
7-2-3: Protection Of Public
7-2-4: Acceptance, Inspection Of Completed Work
7-2-5: Location Of Excavation Area Required
7-2-5A: Fee Required For Street Excavation
7-2-6: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: Before beginning any boring, cutting or excavation
under, across or through any street, highway or alley, or in any right of way
or easement adjacent to any street, highway or alley, the party about to
perform the same shall apply for a permit therefore from the City;
   B.   Fee: The fee for the permit shall be set by the City Council. No permit
fee is required from an entity that pays franchise fee(s) to the City of
Poteau. (Ord. 815, 11-7-2022)
7-2-2: DUTIES UPON COMPLETION OF WORK:
After the work is completed, the person making the opening shall fill the bore,
cut or excavation and tamp the earth or other fill material as specified by the
City, subject to the rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the City.
The party making any such bore, cut or excavation shall replace any paving,
whether asphalt, concrete or a combination, damaged, destroyed, or removed in
like manner as existed prior to such bore, cut or excavation. (Ord. 815, 11-7-
2022)
7-2-3: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC:
It is the duty of any person making an excavation in the street, highway or
alley, or in any right of way or easement adjacent to any street, highway or
alley of the city to adequately and sufficiently protect all such excavations
by barricades or other obstructions, including all appropriate warnings about
the excavation so as to prevent accidents or injury to persons or property
until such time as such excavation is resurfaced and approved by the City.
(Ord. 815, 11-7-2022)
7-2-4: ACCEPTANCE, INSPECTION OF COMPLETED WORK:
The requirements for the work allowed pursuant to the permit shall not be
considered to have been complied with until the City shall have accepted the
street, highway or alley, or any right of way or easement adjacent to any
street, highway or alley as being in good condition. In the event that the
person making the opening shall fail to leave the street, highway or alley, or
any right of way or easement adjacent to any street, highway or alley, in a
good state of repair, satisfactory to the City, thence the City shall call upon
the person making the opening to pay for the cost of repairing such street,
highway or alley, or any right of way or easement adjacent to any street,
highway or alley. In the event the person making the opening fails to repair
such street, highway or alley, or any right of way or easement adjacent to any
street, highway or alley, the city may proceed to have the street, highway or
alley, or any right of way or easement adjacent to any street, highway or
alley, put in good condition, and may pursue all legal remedies available to
the city for the collection of the costs of such repair against said person
making the opening. (Ord. 815, 11-7-2022)
7-2-5: LOCATION OF EXCAVATION AREA REQUIRED:
Prior to the commencement of any boring, cutting or excavation of any street,
highway or alley, or in any right of way or easement adjacent to any street,
highway or alley, the party conducting said excavation shall mark off, with
white spray paint or other appropriate indicators, the area which is planned
for excavation. Said requirement is commonly referred to as “white striping”
the area planned for excavation. (Ord. 815, 11-7-2022)
7-2-5A: FEE REQUIRED FOR STREET EXCAVATION:
Prior to the commencement of any cutting or excavation of any paved street or
highway, a fee of $500.00 shall be paid to the City of Poteau. (Ord. 815, 11-7-
2022)
7-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate this chapter or any part thereof shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 815, 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Determination And Enforcement Of Rules
7-3-2: Setting Of Fees
7-3-3: Concessions; Permit And Fee
7-3-4: Closing Hours, Compliance With
7-3-5: Rules And Regulations
7-3-6: Penalty
7-3-1: DETERMINATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF RULES:
The city council shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce such
rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or expedient
in connection with the use of all recreational and park facilities owned or
operated by the city. (1990 Code § 11-101)
7-3-2: SETTING OF FEES:
The city shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the city. (1990 Code § 11-102)
7-3-3: CONCESSIONS; PERMIT AND FEE:
No person shall sell any food or merchandise, or conduct any concession on city
park grounds without permission from the city. The fee for a permit shall be
fixed by the city council, and permit concessions at the place designated for
such purpose by the city council. (1990 Code § 11-103)
7-3-4: CLOSING HOURS, COMPLIANCE WITH:
No person shall be allowed in any city park after its closing hours, except by
special permission of the city. (1990 Code § 11-109)
7-3-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   No motor vehicle shall be driven or otherwise operated at a rate of
speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour in any city park.
      2.   The parking of motor vehicles shall be at such places designated
therefor and in accordance with regulations posted on park grounds. (1990 Code
§ 11-104)
   B.   Littering: It is unlawful for any person to litter the grounds or other
areas within the city parks and playgrounds. Persons using picnic grounds in
any city park shall clean up all papers, cans and other waste before leaving
such grounds. (1990 Code § 11-105)
   C.   Fires: It is unlawful for any person to build or set any fire inside
any city park or picnic grounds, except in ovens which have been provided for
such purposes. (1990 Code § 11-106)
   D.   Intoxicating Beverages: It is unlawful for any person to drink any
alcoholic beverage or to be intoxicated upon any city park ground. (1990 Code §
11-107)
   E.   Protection Of Wildlife: It is unlawful for any person to kill any bird
or wild animal on city park property. (1990 Code § 11-108)
   F.   Tobacco:
      1.   The use of tobacco is a public nuisance, is dangerous to adults and
children, and sets an unhealthy example for the city of Poteau's youth and
children. Therefore, the use of tobacco in any form is hereby prohibited in all
city owned parks. The use of tobacco in any form shall also be prohibited in
and around all public restrooms located in city owned parks, and in and around
all parking lots adjacent to city owned parks.
      2.   For purposes of this section, a "city owned park" shall be defined
as any parcel of open land which is owned by the city of Poteau and used for
recreational activities, including all walking and bicycle trails, ball fields,
skateparks, and other fields or facilities used for sporting events.
      3.   Any person who knowingly violates this subsection F is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with
the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 724, 5-7-2012)
7-3-6: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to use any of the park or recreational facilities
without having complied with the rules and regulations promulgated by the city
council in connection therewith. Anyone violating any of the rules and
regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 11-110)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Sale Of Lots; Duties Of City Clerk
7-4-2: Record Of Deeds
7-4-3: Damage To Property
7-4-4: Excavations
7-4-1: SALE OF LOTS; DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
The city shall keep a plat of all cemetery lots, which shall at all times show
the lots that have been sold and the date of sale, to whom sold and the lots
remaining unsold in the city cemetery. The clerk shall receive money for the
price of lots sold, and a record of the names of all persons entitled to
certificates or deeds to such lots, which record must in all cases show the
receipts for the full amount due the city as shown by such record. It is
unlawful for the mayor and city clerk to execute any certificate or deed to any
person for any cemetery lots until above requirements have been complied with
by the clerk. (1990 Code § 11-201)
7-4-2: RECORD OF DEEDS:
The city clerk shall keep a record of each deed or certificate to cemetery lots
issued by the city, which record shall show the names of the purchaser, the
date of the instrument, the description of the property, and the consideration
received therefor. (1990 Code § 11-202)
7-4-3: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure, deface or in any manner trespass upon
the city cemetery or to in any way injure any monument, grave, stone, fence,
tree, shrubbery, flowers, or any other improvements placed thereon by any
person or turn stock loose in any of the roadways in or about the cemetery.
(1990 Code § 11-203)
7-4-4: EXCAVATIONS:
All graves shall be excavated to a depth not less than four feet six inches
(4'6"), or such depth prescribed by the city, below the natural surface of the
ground, and shall be neatly moulded and smoothed with plain head and foot
boards firmly planted before they shall be deemed completed. (1990 Code § 11-
204)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Improvement Of Streets And Alleys
7-5-2: Sidewalks Constructed By Railroads
7-5-3: Climbing On Trains
7-5-4: Trains Blocking Streets
7-5-5: Speed Limit For Trains
7-5-6: Penalty
7-5-1: IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Tracks Within Or Adjacent To Streets: When a railway occupies any
portion of a street with its tracks running in a general direction of such
street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway company shall improve the
space between its tracks and two feet (2') on either side thereof in the same
manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or has been, improved, or
with such other satisfactory material as the council by motion or resolution
may approve.
   B.   Tracks Within Or Adjacent To Alleys: In case any railway company shall
occupy an alley with its track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter,
drain, and grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same
material which is to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other
satisfactory material as the council by motion or resolution may approve.
   C.   Crossing Streets:
      1.   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is
being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is
occupied by its track or tracks and two feet (2') on each side, using the same
material as is to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other
satisfactory material as the council by motion or resolution may approve.
      2.   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of one
hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad
company shall grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its
tracks, and surface or pave it with the same material which the city is to use
or has used, on the street.
   D.   Maintenance: Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made
by them in a good state of repair at all times. (1990 Code § 16-101)
7-5-2: SIDEWALKS CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS:
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of way, using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (1990 Code § 16-
102)
7-5-3: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner attach
himself to, any railway train, locomotive, or railway car while such is in
motion within the city, unless such person is acting in line of duty; or to
board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight, or other car,
except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of the
train or car or in line of duty. (1990 Code § 16-103)
7-5-4: TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of, or to operate the same, in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes. This provision shall not apply to railroad trains
or cars in motion, other than those engaged in switching. (1990 Code § 16-105)
7-5-5: SPEED LIMIT FOR TRAINS:
   A.   Speed Limit Specified: The maximum speed of railroad engines, motorcars
or trains of cars within the corporate limits of the city is forty five (45)
miles per hour.
   B.   Duty Of Engineer: No engineer or other person in charge of a railway
engine, motorcar or train of cars shall operate and run the same, or permit the
same to be operated and run, along any track within the corporate limits of the
city at a greater rate of speed than is prescribed and set forth in this
section. (1990 Code § 16-104)
7-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate this chapter, or any part thereof, shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 16-106)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SYSTEMS GENERALLY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Lease Of Systems; Public Works Authority
8-1-2: Scope Of Provisions
8-1-3: Service In Compliance With Technical Provisions
8-1-4: Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations
8-1-5: Inspection Prior To Making Water Or Sewer Taps
8-1-6: Right Of Entry
8-1-7: Termination Of Service Authorized
8-1-8: Nonliability Of City For Damage
8-1-9: Utility Service Application Required
8-1-10: Assumption Of Use
8-1-11: Use Contrary To Permit Prohibited
8-1-12: Temporary Interruption Of Service Authorized
8-1-13: Right To Restrict Use
8-1-14: Sale Of Service By Customer
8-1-15: Service Connection Regulations
8-1-16: Unlawful Use
8-1-17: Maintenance Of System By Consumer
8-1-18: Allowing Access To City And Authority Agents
8-1-1: LEASE OF SYSTEMS; PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
The city has leased its water, sewer and sanitation systems to the Poteau
public works authority, a public trust. The trust has power to set rates and
otherwise to regulate the water, sewer, and sanitation systems. The motions and
resolutions adopted by the trust replaced any ordinances which the city had
relating to these matters. For the motions and resolutions passed by the public
trust, reference should be made to the minutes of the Poteau public works
authority. A copy of the trust indenture relating to the leasing of these
systems is on file in the office of the city clerk. (1990 Code § 17-101)
8-1-2: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms
and conditions whereby the city shall furnish any utility service to any
person, or whereby the city shall make any utility connections, or perform any
work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the city council. (1990 Code § 17-102)
8-1-3: SERVICE IN COMPLIANCE WITH TECHNICAL PROVISIONS:
Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter shall be in
accordance with and in compliance with all applicable technical provisions of
this code, state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations. (1990 Code §
17-103)
8-1-4: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council and the city's public works authority shall have the authority
to establish by rule or regulation such standards and specifications as may be
deemed necessary for the installation, construction and maintenance of any
utility service system owned and operated by the city within or without the
city and under the management of the city. Such rules, regulations, standards
and specifications shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Violation of
such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 17-104)
8-1-5: INSPECTION PRIOR TO MAKING WATER OR SEWER TAPS:
In order to protect the utility service supply, the city will not make any
water or sewer taps until the premises involved has been inspected and approved
by the plumbing inspector, or other agent of the city. (1990 Code § 17-105)
8-1-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Any authorized inspector of the city shall have free access at any time to all
premises supplied with any utility service by the city for the purpose of
examination in order to protect the utility services from abusive use. (1990
Code § 17-106)
8-1-7: TERMINATION OF SERVICE AUTHORIZED:
The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or reconnect
any utility service for any of the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law;
   B.   Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility service;
   C.   Nonpayment of bills;
   D.   Wilful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect
pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise;
   E.   Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating
the supply of utility service;
   F.   Theft or diversion or use of service without payment therefor; or
   G.   Vacancy of premises. (1990 Code § 17-107)
8-1-8: NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGE:
   A.   Nonliability Of City: The city shall not be liable for any damage to
any customer of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of
the sewerage system, failure of supply, interruption of service or any other
cause outside the direct control of the city.
   B.   Damage Beyond Meter: In case of damage beyond the meter, the city shall
not be liable for damage unless the city is duly notified and a reasonable
amount of time is allowed to correct such damage. (1990 Code § 17-108)
8-1-9: UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Application And Deposit 1 :
      1.   Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city shall
make application for the same to the city clerk.
      2.   Such application shall contain the applicant's name, address and the
uses for which such utility service is desired.
      3.   Before any utility service shall be provided to an applicant
therefor, such application shall be signed by the applicant and filed with the
utility department, along with the required deposit.
   B.   Repair Of Leaks: In consideration of service to be given, the consumer
agrees that the city shall not be responsible for damages or injury caused by
escaping gas or water on consumer's side of the meter, nor for injury or damage
caused by gas or water escaping from the city's lines until after the city
shall be notified of the leaking gas or water by the consumer and be given a
reasonable time to repair the leak. (1990 Code § 17-109)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-2-2 of this title.
8-1-10: ASSUMPTION OF USE:
All premises connected to any utility service of the city shall be assumed to
be using such utility service and the owner or occupant shall be charged
therefor so long as such premises shall remain connected with the utility
service. (1990 Code § 17-110)
8-1-11: USE CONTRARY TO PERMIT PROHIBITED:
Any person having a permit from the city for the use of any utility service
offered by the city who shall use such utility service for any purpose other
than mentioned in such permit or who shall make any unauthorized changes in
such service shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code § 17-111)
8-1-12: TEMPORARY INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE AUTHORIZED:
The city reserves the right to cut off any utility service without notice in
case of emergencies. When an interruption in service is necessary for the
maintenance and improvement of the utility system, affected customers will be
notified as circumstances permit. (1990 Code § 17-112)
8-1-13: RIGHT TO RESTRICT USE:
The city hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent the use
of any utility service furnished by the city during periods of emergency or
circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use. (1990 Code § 17-
113)
8-1-14: SALE OF SERVICE BY CUSTOMER:
It is unlawful for any person to resell to others any utility service obtained
from the city except only by special arrangement with the city council. (1990
Code § 17-114)
8-1-15: SERVICE CONNECTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   City Supervision: Connections for any utility service furnished by the
city shall be made only under the supervision of the city council. (1990 Code §
17-115)
   B.   Separate Connections: Every building, structure or consumer in the city
shall have a separate city owned utility service connection, unless
specifically authorized by the city council. (1990 Code § 17-116)
   C.   Unlawful Connections: Any person who shall make any connection in any
manner to any utility system, whether owned by the city or not, without the
prior knowledge and consent of the owner of such utility shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code § 17-117)
8-1-16: UNLAWFUL USE:
No person, other than employees of the city, shall be authorized to connect,
turn on, turn off, disconnect or reconnect any utility service offered by the
city, or remove, replace or repair any equipment connected to any such utility
service. (1990 Code § 17-118)
8-1-17: MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM BY CONSUMER:
The consumer of any utility service furnished by the city shall maintain and
keep in good repair all connections, appliances and other apparatus installed
and used in connection with such utility service. (1990 Code § 17-119)
8-1-18: ALLOWING ACCESS TO CITY AND AUTHORITY AGENTS:
   A.   Obstructing Access Prohibited: It is unlawful and an offense for any
person to obstruct or deny access to, or prevent the reading of, water meters
in the city by the city, its agents, employees, or officers by parking any
vehicle or placing any obstruction over or on top of the water meter covers or
to permit any vehicle to be parked or located above or on top of the water
meters. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   B.   Threats Against City Officers And Employees: It is unlawful to make
threats of any type to officers, agents, or employees of the city in the
performance of their duties or to prevent the officers, agents, or employees
from performing their official duties in reading the water meters or by
limiting the access to water meters in any other manner not limited to those
mentioned above. (1990 Code § 17-120)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Utility Meters
8-2-2: Deposit For Utility Service
8-2-2-1: Rates
8-2-3: Payment Of Bills; Delinquency; Service Discontinued
8-2-4: Voluntary Discontinuance Of Service
8-2-5: Determination Of Charges Generally
8-2-6: Charges For Dwelling Units Without Separate Meters
8-2-7: Water Metered For Resale, Collection Of Charges
8-2-8: Rates For The Collection And Disposal Of Garbage For Commercial
Customers In The City
8-2-1: UTILITY METERS:
   A.   Meters Required: Meters for the measurement of utility services
furnished by the City shall be furnished and installed by, and shall remain the
property of, the City. (1990 Code § 17-201)
   B.   Access To Meters: Free access to utility meters shall be granted the
City at all reasonable times. (1990 Code § 17-202)
8-2-2: DEPOSIT FOR UTILITY SERVICE 1 :
   A.   Deposit Required: Every applicant for utility service shall make a
deposit with the City Clerk in an amount to be determined by resolution passed
by the City Council, and such applicant shall not be granted utility service
until he has paid to the City Clerk such deposit. The deposit shall serve as a
guarantee for the payment of charges for utility service and other amounts owed
to the City in connection with such service. (1990 Code § 17-203)
   B.   Refund Of Deposit: Refunds of deposits made for utility service shall
be made upon the termination of such utility service only after payment of all
indebtedness to the City for such utility service. Application of the deposit
may be made in partial or total settlement of accounts when the supply is cut
off for nonpayment of the bill, or for any infraction or violation of any
ordinance, rule or regulation of the City relative to utility services offered
by the City. (1990 Code § 17-204)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-9 of this title.
8-2-2-1: RATES:
 Current December 2022 Multiples
                   Current             December 2022       Multiples
Minimum bill       $44.00              $45.00              30.46
Sewer average rate $2.90/1,000 gallons $2.90/1,000 gallons $2.90/1,000 gallons
Sewer base         $8.50               $8.50               $6.40
Solid waste        $5.85               $6.85               $6.83
Trash              $8.50               $8.50               $5.63
Water base         $15.35/2,000        $15.35/2,000        $11.60/2,000 gallons
                   gallons             gallons
Water rate         $4.00/1,000 gallons $4.00/1,000 gallons $4.00/1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 751, 6-5-2017; amd. Ord. 799, 6-14-2021; Ord. 816, 11-7-2022)
8-2-3: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCY; SERVICE DISCONTINUED:
   A.   Time Of Payment; Delinquency: All bills for utility services furnished
by the City shall be due and payable when rendered and shall be considered
delinquent ten (10) days thereafter. A delinquent bill shall become subject to
immediate discontinuance of service when the next bill is rendered showing a
previous balance due. (1990 Code § 17-206)
   B.   Penalty For Failure To Pay: In the event any consumer of utility
services furnished by the City shall fail to pay his bill therefor when the
same is due, a penalty as determined by the City Council shall be imposed.
(1990 Code § 17-207)
   C.   Reconnection After Disconnection: In the event that utility service is
disconnected for nonpayment of the bill, the consumer thereof shall have the
right to have the same reconnected only upon the payment of the amount due, and
in addition thereto, a reconnection fee as established by the city council from
time to time. (1990 Code § 17-208)
8-2-4: VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Consumers wishing to discontinue the use of any utility service shall give
written notice thereof at the city hall. Failure to do so shall render them
liable for the payment of all bills until such notice has been given. (1990
Code § 17-209)
8-2-5: DETERMINATION OF CHARGES GENERALLY:
The rates and charges for the consumption of utility services furnished by the
city, as well as the charges and fees for connection thereto, shall be as
determined by the city council or the public works authority from time to time,
and such service and connection charges and fees shall be and remain on file in
the office of the city clerk. (1990 Code § 17-205)
8-2-6: CHARGES FOR DWELLING UNITS WITHOUT SEPARATE METERS:
From and after February 3, 2020, the new rates for water users or customers in
the city who reside in dwelling units without separate meters, and specifically
in the case of individual mobile homes in any mobile home park and individual
housekeeping units within any apartment, which mobile home or unit does not
have a separate meter, there shall be additional charges of:
 
Sewer                                $5.81 per month
Sanitation                           5.12 per month
Oklahoma solid waste management act1 5.30 per month
Water                                10.56 per month
 
for a total of twenty-five dollars and twenty cents ($25.20) per month for each
such mobile home or housekeeping unit, a "housekeeping unit" being a unit with
kitchen facilities or privileges for family functions. (Ord. 523, 7-3-1995;
amd. Ord. 781, 2-3-2020; Ord. 802, 8-2-2021)
8-2-7: WATER METERED FOR RESALE, COLLECTION OF CHARGES:
   A.   Responsibility For Collection Of Charges: Should water be sold by the
city and metered to a person for sale to water consumers who are users of the
city sewer and sanitation systems, the first purchaser shall be responsible to
the city for billing and collecting from all his water customers who are users
of the city sewer and sanitation systems, and shall account to the city for all
charges including: water, sewer, sanitation, and Oklahoma solid waste
management act (OSWMA) charges at the time such first user of water pays his
water bill.
   B.   Maintenance Of Records: Such person reselling such water shall maintain
adequate records and shall furnish and certify, upon request, the number and
names of all of his water customers who are users of the city water, sewer, and
sanitation services. (Ord. 523, 7-3-1995)
8-2-8: RATES FOR THE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE FOR COMMERCIAL
CUSTOMERS IN THE CITY:
Effective August 1, 2020, the rates applicable for the collection of garbage
for commercial customers shall be as follows:
 
Non dumpster commercial               $13.05
Dumpster (1-2 times per week pick-up) 26.10
Dumpster (3-4 times per week pick-up) 39.15
Dumpster (5-6 times per week pick-up) 52.20
 
(Ord. 787, 7-6-2020)
ARTICLE A. WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2A-1: User Charge Schedule And Sewer Tap Fee
8-2A-2: Basis For Determining Charges
8-2A-3: User Charge Formula
8-2A-4: Excessive Strength Charges
8-2A-5: Toxic Pollutants Charges
8-2A-6: Charges For Extraneous Flows
8-2A-7: Review And Revision
8-2A-8: Annual Notification
8-2A-9: Records
8-2A-10: Billing
8-2A-11: Validity
8-2A-1: USER CHARGE SCHEDULE AND SEWER TAP FEE:
Rates are as established in section
8-2-2-1 of this chapter. Further, the sewer tap fee is seventy five dollars
($75.00) per sewer tap. (Ord. 555, 7-7-1997, eff. 7-7-1997; amd. Ord. 741, 6-
29-2015)
8-2A-2: BASIS FOR DETERMINING CHARGES:
   A.   Base Use: The term "base use" shall mean the average monthly gallonage
of water billed to any user for the billing periods ending in the three (3)
months constituting the "base period" as defined in subsection B of this
section. Fractional parts of billing period shall not be considered.
   B.   Base Period: The "base period" shall be the three (3) consecutive
calendar months consisting of December, January and February.
   C.   Billing Periods: All sanitary sewer service billing periods shall
coincide with the billing periods of water service to the same user or
premises.
   D.   Temporary Base Use:
      1.   In the event sanitary sewer service is commenced to a new user after
the billing period ending in December of any year, and such user was not a
water customer of the city during the base period next preceding, the utility
commissioner shall establish a temporary base use for such customer.
      2.   The temporary base use shall be predicated on actual use, adjusted
for seasonal variation and shall remain in effect until a base use is
established in accordance with this article.
   E.   Transfer Of Customer: In the event a customer transfers from one
address to another, the base use of such customer at the billing address from
which transferred may be the base use for the customer at the new location.
   F.   Annual Review: The base use for each user shall be reviewed annually at
the end of the base period.
   G.   Nonmetered Users: In the case of users not on a metered basis, the
utility commissioner shall establish the base use based on a comparison of the
nonmetered user with a metered user of similar class. Example: A nonmetered
family of four (4) will be compared to a typical family of four (4) with a
water meter to establish a base use.
   H.   Application For Survey Of Special Facts: Any person, firm, corporation,
association, institution or establishment from whose property or premises
sewage is discharged into the sanitary sewerage system of the city where the
charges, as determined in accordance with the provisions of this article, do
not reasonably reflect the amount of sewage and concentration of BOD and/or
suspended solids discharged by the applicant into the sanitary sewerage system,
may apply in writing to the city to make a survey of the special facts and
conditions shown to exist by such application. After considering such
application and survey, the city shall determine the amount of sewage and
concentration of BOD and suspended solids discharged by the applicant into the
sanitary sewer system under the special facts and conditions shown to exist so
that the charges to the applicant will be just, fair and equitable.
   I.   Determination Of Average Monthly Discharge: If in the opinion of the
utility commissioner, the base use established in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this article does not reasonably approximate the
actual discharge of wastewater into the public sanitary sewer system by such
user, the utility commissioner shall determine the average monthly discharge by
such user based upon actual consumption of water, less water consumed but not
discharged into the sanitary sewer system. The average so established shall be
the base use for such customer. Base use, so established, shall be reviewed by
the utility commissioner not less often than annually. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-3: USER CHARGE FORMULA:
As the BOD, suspended solids, and other pollutant concentrations discharged
shall be approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be charged on
a volume basis in accordance with the following formula:
Cu   =   Cb + ct/Vt (Vu)
(Based on model no. 1; 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
   Symbols and Definitions:
 
Cu = A user's charge per unit of time
Cb = A user's base minimum charge (for debt retirement, billing,
     administration, etc.) per unit of time
Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
     extraneous flows)
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
(Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-4: EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES:
For any user, when the BOD exceeds *two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250
mg/l), the suspended solids exceeds *two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/l), or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range of
concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge shall
be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be calculated by the
following formula:
Ca   =   [Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc (P)] Vu
(Based on model no. 2, 40 CFR 35, appendix B)
   Symbols and Definitions:
Ca = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
Bc = O&H cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
B  = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS)
S  = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level
Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
P  = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
* Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
(Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-5: TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES:
Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay
for such increased costs. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-6: CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS:
The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly attributable
to users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among users on the
same basis as operation and maintenance charges. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-7: REVIEW AND REVISION:
The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less often than every two (2)
years regarding the wastewater contribution of users, and user classes, the
total costs of the operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its
approved user charge system. The charges for users or user classes shall be
revised to accomplish the following:
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes.
   B.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the treatment works.
   C.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the cost of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and the
rates shall be adjusted accordingly. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-8: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the regular
bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services. Costs shall be broken down to
show the operation and maintenance costs attributable to that user. (Ord. 525,
10-2-1995)
8-2A-9: RECORDS:
A record keeping system shall be established and maintained by the public works
authority of Poteau to document compliance with federal regulations and the
user charge ordinance. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-10: BILLING:
Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due fifteen (15) days
after the date of billing. Users on metered water service will be billed on the
same notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry. Users
of the wastewater system not on metered water service will be billed monthly on
an individual notice for wastewater service at the rate established by the
utility commissioner. Users with delinquent accounts of sixty (60) days will be
notified in writing by the utility commissioner that water and/or wastewater
services will be terminated unless the account is paid in full. The utility
commissioner will utilize the law enforcement agency to assist as required in
the control and management of the user charge system. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
8-2A-11: VALIDITY:
   A.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
   B.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this
article shall not affect the validity of any other part of this article which
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   C.   The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of agreements or contracts between the public works authority of
Poteau and any of the users which are inconsistent with applicable federal
regulations regarding user charge systems. (Ord. 525, 10-2-1995)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: New Sewers And Connections
8-3-2: Prohibited Discharges
8-3-3: Pretreatment Required; Actions By City
8-3-4: Industrial Sewer Users
8-3-5: Penalties
8-3-1: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Codes, Standards: The connection of the building sewer
into the city sewer shall conform to the requirements of the latest edition of
the BOCA building code and other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   B.   Compliance With Health Regulations: All new sanitary sewage works shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma
state department of health regulations.
   C.   Connection To City Sewer: When a city sewer becomes available (within
150 feet), the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer within sixty (60)
days. (Ord. 576, 7-6-1998, eff. 7-6-1998)
8-3-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Nondomestic Wastewater: It is unlawful to discharge nondomestic
wastewater to the city sanitary sewers, except as authorized by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Domestic wastewater shall not
exceed two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) concentration or two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l)
total suspended solids (TSS).
   B.   Storm Water; Swimming Pools: No person shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
any water from down spouts, yard drains, yard fountains, and ponds, septic
tanks, or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewer. Water from swimming pools,
boiler drains, blow off pipes or cooling water from various equipment, may be
discharged into the sanitary sewer by an indirect connection whereby such
discharge is cooled, if required, and flows into the sanitary sewer at a rate
not to exceed the capacity of the sanitary sewer, provided the waste does not
contain materials or substances in suspension or solution in violation of the
limits prescribed by this chapter. The water from an air conditioning or
cooling unit shall in no event exceed one-tenth (0.1) gallon per minute per ton
capacity of the unit. Dilution of any waste discharged to the sanitary sewer
system is prohibited, whether accomplished by the combination of two (2) or
more waste streams by a person or the addition of other liquids solely for the
purpose of diluting the quality of the waste discharge.
   C.   Injurious Substances, Materials: No person shall discharge, or cause to
be discharged, into any city sanitary sewer any of the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C), or which would cause the wastewater
treatment plant influent to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F)
(40°C);
      2.   Any water or wastes which contain wax, grease, oil, plastic, or
other substance that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F);
      3.   Flammable or explosive liquid, solids or gas, such as gasoline,
kerosene, benzine, naphtha, and other like substances;
      4.   Solids or viscous substances in quantities capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sanitary sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood, whole blood, paunch
manure, hair and fleshing, entrails, lime slurry, lime residue, slops, chemical
residues, paint residues, fiberglass, or bulk solids;
      5.   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or shredded; or
      6.   Any noxious or malodorous substance which can form a gas, which
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable of causing
objectionable odors or hazards to life and property, which forms solids in
concentrations exceeding limits established herein or creates any other
condition deleterious to structures or treatment processes; or requires unusual
facilities, attention, or expense to handle such materials.
   D.   Certain Waters And Wastes Restricted: Except in quantities, or
concentrations, or with provisions as stipulated herein, it shall be unlawful
for any person, corporation, or individual to discharge waters or wastes to the
city sanitary sewers containing:
      1.   Free or emulsified oil and grease exceeding on analysis an average
of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) (834 pounds per million gallons)
of either or both or combinations of free or emulsified oil and grease, if, in
the opinion of the city, it appears probable that such wastes:
         a.   Can deposit grease or oil in the sanitary sewer lines in such
manner as to clog the sanitary sewers;
         b.   Can overload the discharge's skimming and grease handling
equipment;
         c.   Are not amenable to biological oxidation and will therefore pass
to the receiving waters without being affected by normal wastewater treatment
processes;
         d.   Can have deleterious effects on the treatment process due to the
excessive quantities.
All businesses, institutions, or organizations (not residences) that cook with
grease must install a grease trap that complies with the latest BOCA building
code.
      2.   Acids or alkalies which attack or corrode sanitary sewers or
wastewater disposal structures or have a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than
10.0.
      3.   Salts of the heavy metals, in solution or suspension, in
concentrations, toxic to biological wastewater treatment processes, or
adversely affect sludge digestion or any other biochemical, biological, or
other wastewater treatment process, or to the biota of the receiving stream to
which the effluent of wastewater treatment facility discharges, or exceeding
the following, the analytical results to be expressed in terms of the elements
indicated:
   Toxic Substance ug/l
 
Cadmium  1
Copper   10
Lead     5
Mercury  2
Zinc     20
Silver   2
Diazinon 0.1 ug/l
 
or other elements which will damage collection facilities or are detrimental to
treatment processes or are detrimental to the biota of the receiving stream to
which the effluent of the wastewater treatment facility discharges. When the
volume of a single toxic industrial waste discharge, or the combined toxic
industrial waste discharge of a group of industries within a single
contributory area, is so large as to raise a question of the ultimate
concentration of toxic substances entering a treatment plant or a receiving
stream, the city shall impose separate or special concentration limits upon the
discharge to ensure:
         a.   That the concentrations in wastewater of any toxic substances
shall not exceed those concentrations in the influent of any wastewater
treatment plant toxic to biological wastewater treatment processes, or
adversely affect sludge digestion, "or sludge quality", or any biochemical,
biological or other wastewater treatment process; or
         b.   That in no instance will be combined concentrations of any toxic
substances in the effluent of any wastewater treatment plant exceed the
discharge stream limitations as published by the state regulatory agency.
      4.   Cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic gas
on acidification in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the
wastes from any outlet into the public sanitary sewers.
      5.   Radioactive materials exceeding the existing standards of the
Oklahoma state department of health, or unless they comply with the atomic
energy commission of 1954 (68 O.D. 919 as amended and part 20, subpart D,
"Waste Disposal", section 20.303, of the regulations issued by the atomic
energy commission, or amendments thereto).
      6.   Any wastewater containing phenols or other taste producing
substances in such concentrations as to produce odor or taste in the effluent
as to affect the taste and odor of the receiving waters.
      7.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of solids or composition, as for example
in total solids of inert nature (such as fuller's earth) or in total dissolved
solids (such as sodium chloride, calcium chloride, or sodium sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration;
         c.   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand or an immediate oxygen demand;
         d.   High hydrogen sulfide content; or
         e.   Unusual flow and concentration.
      8.   Toxic substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by
the wastewater treatment process employed, or are amenable to treatment only to
such degree that the wastewater treatment plant cannot meet the requirements of
other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters
without pretreating to a concentration acceptable to the city. (Ord. 576, 7-6-
1998, eff. 7-6-1998)
8-3-3: PRETREATMENT REQUIRED; ACTIONS BY CITY:
   A.   City Options: When wastewater containing any of the aforementioned
materials is discharged into the sanitary sewer and such wastes are not
properly pretreated or otherwise corrected, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes and terminate the service to the sanitary sewer;
      2.   Require control of the quantities and rates of discharge of such
wastes with flow regulating devices; or
      3.   Require payment of surcharges for excessive cost of treatment,
provided such wastes are amenable to treatment by existing wastewater treatment
plant facilities.
   B.   Increase Or Dilute Discharge: Except where expressly authorized by the
city to do so by an applicable categorical pretreatment standard, no industrial
user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any other way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with this chapter's discharge limitations.
   C.   Costs Borne By User: All costs of analyzing and sampling of the
wastewater shall be borne by the user. (Ord. 576, 7-6-1998, eff. 7-6-1998)
8-3-4: INDUSTRIAL SEWER USERS:
   A.   Industrial Wastewater, Criteria: Wastewater which satisfies one of the
following criteria shall be considered industrial wastewater:
      1.   Wastewater which exceeds the normal domestic concentration of two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) BOD or two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) SS;
      2.   Wastewater from industrial, manufacturing or food processing
operations; or
      3.   Wastewater which contains materials toxic to biological wastewater
treatment processes.
   B.   Industrial Users, Criteria: Sewer users which satisfy one of the
following criteria shall be considered industrial users:
      1.   Any user who discharges industrial wastewater;
      2.   Any user who discharges more than twenty five thousand (25,000)
gallons per day; or
      3.   Any user for which the federal categorical standards apply.
   C.   Wastewater Discharge Permit: After February 23, 1987, no industrial
user shall discharge wastewater to the city sanitary sewer without a valid
wastewater discharge permit issued by the city. All industrial users proposing
to connect to or to discharge sewage, industrial waste, and other waste to the
city sanitary sewer shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or discharging to the city sanitary sewer.
   D.   New Establishments; Date: New establishments constructed after February
23, 1987, shall submit a permit application and required information and obtain
approval from the city before connecting to the sewer system. Establishments
already existing on the effective date of these regulations shall submit a
permit application and required information within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the effective date hereof.
   E.   Permit Fee Schedule: The city shall charge fees for the issuance and
renewal of permits based on the schedule adopted by the city. An annual report
shall be submitted to the city certifying that there have been no changes in
the operational procedures or, if there have been changes, furnishing the
information required by the city.
   F.   Information Contained In Permit: Permits may contain the following:
      1.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      2.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      3.   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      4.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      5.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for test and
reporting schedule;
      6.   Compliance schedules;
      7.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      8.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city access
thereto;
      9.   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      10.   Requirements for notification of abnormal discharges;
      11.   Approval by the city engineer; and
      12.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 576, 7-6-1998, eff. 7-6-1998)
8-3-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, is subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day or any portion of a day during which any
violation of this chapter or any ordinance in relation hereto exists. Each day
or any portion of a day during which any violation of this chapter or of any
ordinance in relation hereto shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 576, 7-6-1998, eff. 7-6-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Other Remedies: In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection
A of this section, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil
remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other
ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   C.   Right To Terminate Service: The city reserves the right to terminate
service to any customer that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any
prohibited wastes into the sewer system. (Ord. 576, 7-6-1998, eff. 7-6-1998)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Duty To Request Garbage Service
8-4-3: Charges Set By Council
8-4-4: Inspection Of Premises
8-4-5: Use Of City Containers By Nonresidents
8-4-6: Garbage And Refuse Accumulations; Container Requirements
8-4-7: Collection Of Garbage And Rubbish
8-4-8: Contract For Garbage Collection And Disposal
8-4-9: Means Of Disposal
8-4-10: Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, and carcasses of small animals and fowl from
any premises within the city limits.
HEALTH OFFICER: The director of the county health department.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
REFUSE: All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into lengths
not exceeding 31/2 feet), leaves, etc., from any premises within the city
limits.
RUBBLE: Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden, or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger or heavier than refuse. (1990 Code § 17-
401; amd. 2004 Code)
8-4-2: DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE:
To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the city, it is the duty of
every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the city clerk at
the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and use the garbage pick up
and collection service; provided, however, that failure of any owner, rental
agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not prevent nor
in any way impair or impede the city from adding the address of such premises
to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such service and
otherwise enforcing, by appropriate action, the regulatory measures. (1990 Code
§ 17-409)
8-4-3: CHARGES SET BY COUNCIL:
There may be charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the city council by motion or
resolution. (1990 Code § 17-408)
8-4-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The city may make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all
premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with. (1990 Code §
17-407)
8-4-5: USE OF CITY CONTAINERS BY NONRESIDENTS:
   A.   Application; Approval: Any person desiring to use the city's containers
for the purpose of disposing of rubbish, refuse or rubble may do so whether or
not such person is a resident of the city or a property owner in the city so
long as application is made to the city clerk and such use is approved by the
city clerk.
   B.   Rate For Use: The rate for the use of the city's facilities by
nonresidents shall be the regular rate then in effect for similar use by the
residents and property owners of the city.
   C.   Penalty: Use of such containers by such nonresidents or nonproperty
owners without prior arrangement with the city shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 17-402)
8-4-6: GARBAGE AND REFUSE ACCUMULATIONS; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Containers Required; Specifications:
      1.   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where garbage
or rubbish accumulates to provide, and at all times to maintain in good order
and repair, on any premises a portable container or containers for refuse which
shall be made of galvanized metal or equivalent, not easily corrodible,
rodentproof and flyproof, with a tight fitting lid which shall not be removed
except when depositing or removing the contents of the receptacle, and with
handles on the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in sufficient numbers to
accommodate and securely keep all of the garbage and rubbish that may
accumulate between collections.
      2.   Each container shall have a capacity of not more than thirty two
(32) gallons, except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use.
All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   B.   Location; Sanitary Condition:
      1.   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location for
collection, as designated by the city council, whereby collectors can obtain
same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or fenced yards with
dogs.
      2.   All containers and grounds immediately around same shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
   C.   Rubbish, Bundles: All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree
limbs, paper boxes, and scrap lumber which cannot be conveniently placed in the
containers required by this chapter shall be gathered together and baled, tied
or sacked in compact bundles, weighing no more than fifty (50) pounds, and
placed in a location easily accessible to the collector.
   D.   Open Burning: There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless
the operations are carried out in an approved type incinerator, or approval is
obtained from the health officer. (1990 Code § 17-403)
8-4-7: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   Placement Of Container For Collection: The city or its authorized
representative shall collect from all areas of the city upon schedule as
approved by the city council. It is the duty of any person in possession or
control of any premises to place the containers required by this chapter in a
location easily accessible to the collector as directed by the health officer.
   B.   Rubble And Excessive Accumulations: The places having rubble and
excessive accumulations of garbage and rubbish may be excluded from the
service, and such accumulations shall then be removed and disposed of at the
expense of the owner or person having charge; provided, that the owner, person
having such accumulations in charge, or collection agent shall secure
permission from the health officer for removal and disposal of same.
   C.   Animal Carcasses: Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses and mules
shall be removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having
same in charge and by the method directed by the health officer.
   D.   Bulky, Heavy Accumulations: Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken
concrete, ashes, sand or gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other
bulky, heavy materials shall be disposed of at the expense of the owner or
person controlling same under the direction of the health officer.
   E.   Manure, Waste Oils: Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards,
pigeon lofts, and other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or
filling stations, or materials considered hazardous or dangerous, shall be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the person controlling same in the
manner and by the method directed by the health officer.
   F.   Restriction On Placement Of Garbage, Rubbish: The placing of garbage or
rubbish or any refuse material in any street or alley within the city limits or
the disposal of such refuse at any place within the city limits, except at such
place as may be directed by the health officer, is prohibited.
   G.   Scattering Refuse: The meddling with refuse containers or in any way
pilfering, scattering contents, or junking in any alley or street within the
city limits is prohibited. (1990 Code § 17-404)
8-4-8: CONTRACT FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Contractual Authority; Limitations:
      1.   The city shall have authority to enter into contractual obligation
with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the city.
      2.   The city shall be limited to contracting for such service by
contracting only with persons having proper equipment, meeting state department
of health requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of
refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and provided further,
that the method of disposal contracted for must be in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Contract: Every person desiring to engage in the
collection and disposal of refuse shall have the right to make written
application to the city and shall make written application, setting forth the
name of such person, the residence address thereof or the address of the place
of business, a description of the equipment to be used in the collection or
disposal of such refuse, the place of disposal and the method of disposal to be
practiced. Upon approval of application, all bids may be considered at some
time prior to the expiration of the then existing contract, if any.
   C.   Denial Of Application; Hearing: Any person whose application has been
denied may request, and shall be granted, a hearing before the city council.
   D.   Refuse Collection Without Contract Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person who does not do so under a contract with the city to engage in the
business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the city.
(1990 Code § 17-405)
8-4-9: MEANS OF DISPOSAL:
The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration (not open burning) or by landfill and daily cover. (1990 Code §
17-406)
8-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any use of city
required container by nonresidents without prior written approval of the city
clerk, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 17-410)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted; Amendments
9-1-1-1: Additional Building Regulations
9-1-2: Building Official
9-1-3: Building Permit Required; Fee
9-1-4: Fire Limits Defined
9-1-5: Penalty
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the office of the city clerk of the city of Poteau, being marked and
designated as the international building code, 2018 edition, as published by
the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the building code
for the city of Poteau in the state of Oklahoma; for the control of buildings
and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said international building
code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions And Changes: The following sections are hereby
revised:
Section 101.1 City of Poteau
Section 1612.3 City of Poteau
Section 1612.3 January 4, 2010
Exhibit A "Attached City Of Poteau Building Requirements".
(Ord. 702, 1-4-2010, eff. 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 821, 8-7-2023)
9-1-1-1: ADDITIONAL BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Commercial Metal Buildings: All commercial metal buildings erected in
the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, that have exterior walls abutting or facing any
dedicated street or highway shall have the lower forty percent (40%) of the
frontage of such walls that face any dedicated street or highway to be covered
with masonry or decorative metal and to install landscaping along such frontage
to present a pleasing appearance, which requirements shall be in addition to
current requirements of the applicable building codes.
   B.   All commercial buildings erected in the City, located in C-3 or C-
4 Zoning and located within two hundred feet (200') of a right-of-way line of
Broadway or Highway 59/271 in the City shall have the frontage of the wall(s)
of such building that face Broadway or Highway 59/271 in the City to be fully
covered with masonry (brick) or stucco or dryvit or stone or paneling (or a
combination of the above) and to install landscaping along such frontage to
present a pleasing appearance, which requirements shall be in addition to
current requirements of the applicable building codes. (Ord. 662, 5-1-2006;
amd. Ord. 780, 1-6-2020)
9-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official of the city shall have the powers and duties prescribed
for the "building official" by the city's building code; provided, that his
powers and duties may be exercised by his authorized representatives under his
supervision and control. The term "building inspector", whenever used in this
code or the ordinances of the city, means the building official. The terms
"electrical inspector", "plumbing inspector", and "gas inspector", wherever
used in the ordinances of the city, also each refer to and mean the building
official, unless a separate electrical inspector, plumbing inspector, or gas
inspector is appointed by the mayor and city council. (1990 Code § 5-104)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Conditions: No building or other structure shall be
built, enlarged, altered or moved without a building permit as required by the
city's building code, and:
      1.   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance;
      2.   Whenever changes will amount to more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in cost; or
      3.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
city to a location within the city or from one location in the city to another
location within the city.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person desiring a building permit shall
submit an application therefor to the city clerk. The applicant shall submit
with the application such reasonable information as the clerk may require to
enable him to determine whether granting the permit would be in accordance with
the requirements of the ordinances of the city.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit; Payment Of Fee: If the application is in accordance
with the requirements of the ordinances and laws, the clerk shall issue the
permit upon the payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be
set by motion or resolution of the city council. A current copy of the fee
schedule shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
   D.   Scope Of Permit: A building permit covers the initial plumbing,
electrical and mechanical installations to be made in connection with the
building.
   E.   Failure To Start Construction; Permit Cancellation: If construction or
work authorized under a permit is not begun within sixty (60) days after
issuance of the permit, the permit is automatically canceled. (1990 Code § 5-
106)
9-1-4: FIRE LIMITS DEFINED:
The fire limits of the city are hereby established as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of South Front Street and Conser Avenue and
running thence in an easterly direction across the St. Louis-San Francisco
Railroad right-of-way and along the "Y" that connects the St. Louis-San
Francisco Railroad and the Kansas City Southern Railroad to Witte Street;
thence along Witte Street in a northerly direction to Grady Avenue; thence
along Grady Avenue in an easterly direction to Harper Street; thence along
Harper Street in a northerly direction to Rogers Avenue; thence along Rogers
Avenue in an easterly direction to Walters Street; thence along Walters Street
in a northerly direction to the alley running through the center of Block One
Hundred Five (105); thence along and easterly through the alley through Block
One Hundred Five (105) and Block One Hundred Four (104) to Saddler Street;
thence along Saddler Street in a northerly direction to the alley running
through the center of Block Ninety-Four (94); thence along and westerly through
the alley through Block Ninety- Four (94), Block Ninety-Three (93), and Block
Ninety-Two (92) to Harper Street; thence along Harper Street in a northerly
direction to the alley running through the center of Block Seventy-Four (74);
thence along and westerly through the alley through Block Seventy-Four (74),
Block Seventy-Five (75) and Block Seventy-Six (76); thence in a northerly
direction along the west boundary of Block Seventy-Six (76) and Block Sixty-One
(61) to Ward Avenue; thence along Ward Avenue in an easterly direction to
McKenna Street; thence along McKenna Street in a northerly direction to Stone
Avenue; thence along Stone Avenue in a westerly direction to Willard Avenue;
thence along Willard Avenue in a westerly direction across the St. Louis-San
Francisco Railroad to Central Avenue; thence along Central Avenue in a
southerly direction to Front Street; thence along Front Street in a southerly
direction to Hopkins Avenue; thence along Hopkins Avenue in a westerly
direction to the alley running through the center of Block Sixty (60); thence
along and southerly through the alley through Block Sixty (60), Block Seventy-
Seven (77) and Block Eighty-Nine (89) to Fleener Avenue; thence along Fleener
Avenue in a westerly direction to Church Street; thence along Church Street in
a southerly direction to Hulsey Avenue; thence along Hulsey Avenue in an
easterly direction to Front Street; thence along Front Street in a southerly
direction to the point of beginning.
(1990 Code § 5-105)
9-1-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall engage in
any business, trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate or
registration is required by this title, without having a valid license, permit,
certificate, or certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to
do anything required by this title or by any code adopted by this title, or who
shall otherwise violate any provision of the chapters in this title or of any
code adopted by this title, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order
made by any of the officers provided for in this title, shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 5-901)
   B.   Relief In Courts: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title
shall interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person, firm or corporation. (1990 Code § 5-902)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted; Amendments
9-2-2: Plumbers; Registration, License And Fees
9-2-3: Plumbing Permits And Inspections
9-2-4: Penalty
9-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the office of the Poteau city clerk, being marked and designated as the
international plumbing code, 2018 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city of
Poteau, in the state of Oklahoma regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing
systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collections of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said plumbing code on file in the office of
the city of Poteau are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions And Changes: The following sections are hereby
revised:
Section 101.1 City of Poteau.
(Ord. 698, 1-4-2010, eff. 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 821, 8-7-2023)
9-2-2: PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, LICENSE AND FEES:
   A.   Definitions Pursuant To Statute: The phrases and words "journeyman
plumber", "plumber's apprentice", "plumbing contractor", and "plumbing", when
used in the ordinances, regulations and other official acts and communications
of the city, shall have the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59
Oklahoma Statutes section 1001 et seq., the state plumbing license law,
specifically section 1003, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
   B.   Certificate Of Registration Required: It is unlawful for any person to
engage in the business, trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor
(otherwise known as a master plumber), or of a journeyman plumber, or of a
plumber's apprentice, in the city unless he is registered with the city and has
a current and valid certificate of registration issued by the plumbing
inspector.
   C.   State Licenses Required: Only persons who have current and valid
licenses as plumbing contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the state
commissioner of health as provided by the state plumbing license law may
register as such with the city. Only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as plumbers' apprentices issued by the state
commissioner of health as provided by the law, may register as such with the
city.
   D.   Issuance; Term Of Registration:
      1.   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with
the laws of the state and with the city code, and after payment of the required
fee, shall be registered by the city.
      2.   The registration shall expire annually, but may be renewed from year
to year. Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws and the same
bond is required as set forth by city code.
   E.   Bond: An applicant for plumbing contractor's registration shall also
furnish bond in such sum and such conditions as set by the mayor and city
council.
   F.   Expiration Of Registration: All plumbing contractors' registrations not
renewed within ninety (90) days after the date of expiration thereof shall be
canceled, and a new application for registration must be made and the fee for a
new registration paid.
   G.   Fee: The fee for registration shall be as set by the city council by
motion or resolution.
   H.   Revocation Of Registration; Notice; Hearing: The city council, upon at
least ten (10) days' notice and adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may
revoke the city registration of any plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber
for violating any provisions of the ordinances or regulations of the city
relating to the installation of plumbing or for any other cause specified in
the state plumbing license law. (1990 Code § 5-203)
9-2-3: PLUMBING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit
from the city.
   B.   Application: The application for such work must follow the adopted city
code.
   C.   Fee Schedule: The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by
resolution or motion of the city council. Such payment will be made upon
application.
   D.   Inspection Of Work: Inspection of such work must conform to the
guidelines set forth in the city code. (1990 Code § 5-204)
9-2-4: PENALTY:
See section
9-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Electrical Equipment Defined
9-3-2: Conformance With Regulations, Standards
9-3-3: Electrical Inspector
9-3-4: Special Rulings By City Council
9-3-5: Electrical Installations; Permit Required, Fee
9-3-6: Inspection Fee
9-3-7: Electricians; Registration And Bond
9-3-8: Inspection; Defective Installations Removed
9-3-9: Discontinuing Current For Noncompliance
9-3-10: Nonliability
9-3-11: Penalty
9-3-1: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure. (1990 Code § 5-301)
9-3-2: CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS, STANDARDS:
   A.   National Electrical Code; Installations: All installations of
electrical equipment shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, with the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and regulations
issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards for safety
to persons and property. Where no specific standards are prescribed by this
chapter or by the statutes of the state of Oklahoma or by any orders, rules, or
regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set
forth in the current issue of the national electrical code, as approved by the
American Insurance Association, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity
with approved standards for safety to persons or to property. (1990 Code § 5-
302)
   B.   Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.; Equipment: All electrical equipment
installed or used shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and regulations issued by the
authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards for safety to persons
or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a statute of the state or any
orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or
class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use,
conformity with the standards of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., shall be
prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to
persons or to property. (1990 Code § 5-303)
9-3-3: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is created the office of city
electrical inspector. Such inspector shall be appointed by the mayor, subject
to confirmation by the city council.
   B.   Duties And Authority: It is the duty of the electrical inspector to
enforce all provisions of this chapter. He is hereby granted the authority to
enter all buildings in the city, in the performance of his duties. (1990 Code §
5-311)
9-3-4: SPECIAL RULINGS BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council, by motion or resolution, shall have the authority to make
special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and
property and the improvement of electrical installations. In all cases, persons
engaged in the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical
license must be notified by letter of these decisions. (1990 Code § 5-304)
9-3-5: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in
the corporate limits of the city or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the city.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for electrical permits shall be
made to the city; and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications,
and other data as may be reasonably required.
   C.   Fee: The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion
or resolution of the city council. (1990 Code § 5-305)
9-3-6: INSPECTION FEE:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may prescribe an inspection fee to
be paid to the city when electrical installations are inspected by the
electrical inspector. (1990 Code § 5-306)
9-3-7: ELECTRICIANS; REGISTRATION AND BOND:
   A.   Certificate Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
city.
      2.   The initial fee for a registration certificate, and any renewal, to
be paid to the city clerk, shall be as set by the city council.
      3.   A registration certificate must be renewed within ninety (90) days
following expiration of the certificate. After the expiration, an application
for a new certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid again.
      4.   No person may be registered with the city as contractor, journeyman
or apprentice unless he possesses a valid and current state license issued by
the state and pays the registration fee.
      5.   This certificate is not transferable to any other individual or
company.
   B.   Bond Requirements: Every person receiving a certificate as an
electrical contractor shall file with the city clerk a bond in such sum as set
by the city council, executed with a surety company authorized to do business
in the state, in the sum as set by the city council. The bond shall be
conditioned that the principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances, and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the city relating to electrical installations and in a
workmanlike manner; that the principal shall, without further cost to the
person for whom the work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused
by poor workmanship or inferior or nonstandard material; and that the city may
be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and all costs, expenses or
damage resulting from the performance of his work as an electrical contractor
or apprentice electrician, as the case may be.
   C.   Apprentice Or Helper Restricted: No apprentice electrician or
electrician's helper shall perform electrical installation work or repair
unless he shall be, at all times during the performance of any such work, under
the direct supervision of a duly licensed journeyman electrician.
   D.   Exception: For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not
using over twelve (12) volts, no registration or bond will be required. The
installation of same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances
of the city.
   E.   Revocation Of Certificate; Hearing: After adequate opportunity for a
hearing, the city council may revoke the certificate of an electrical
contractor, an apprentice electrician, or a journeyman electrician. (1990 Code
§ 5-307)
9-3-8: INSPECTION; DEFECTIVE INSTALLATIONS REMOVED:
   A.   Inspection; Issuance Of Certificate:
      1.   Upon the completion of any work for which a permit has been issued
under section
9-3-5 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to notify the
electrical inspector who shall, as early as possible, inspect the wiring,
installation, appliances and apparatus and execute a certificate of
satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date of such inspection and
the result of his examination.
      2.   No such certificate shall be issued unless such wiring, motors,
heating devices, appliances and apparatus are in strict accord with the rules,
requirements and spirit of this chapter.
      3.   No current shall be turned on until such certificate is issued.
   B.   Inspection Fee: The amount of fee or charge to be made for such
inspections and certificates shall be fixed and determined by the city council.
   C.   Removal Of Defective Installations: Whenever electric wiring,
appliances or apparatus are found to be defective or hazardous through improper
manufacture or improper or insufficient installation or for any other reason,
the electrical inspector shall at once cause the removal of such defect, at the
expense of the owner of such wiring, appliance or apparatus.
   D.   Proof Of Approval Required; Tag: It is unlawful for any person to
conceal, or cause to be concealed, any electrical equipment used for electrical
light, heat or power, until he knows that the installation has been approved by
the electrical inspector. A tag in the switch cabinet or attached to the
service equipment properly signed and dated, so stating, will be sufficient
notice. (1990 Code § 5-308)
9-3-9: DISCONTINUING CURRENT FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Upon failure to comply with this chapter, the electrical inspector shall have
authority, after due notice, to cut off electric current. In an emergency, the
electrical inspector shall have such authority without notice. (1990 Code § 5-
309)
9-3-10: NONLIABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to affect the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling, or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property
caused by any defect therein, nor shall the city or any officer or employee of
such city, be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or
reinspection as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of
any equipment authorized herein. (1990 Code § 5-310)
9-3-11: PENALTY:
See section
9-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Housing Code Adopted
9-4-2: Penalty
9-4-1: HOUSING CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference the standard housing code, the latest
edition thereof, issued by the Southern Building Code Congress International,
Inc., as the minimum housing code for the city. The housing code shall be fully
applicable and enforceable in governing housing in the city, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Said code is
hereby incorporated and made a part hereof as if fully set out at length
herein. Three (3) copies of said code shall be and remain on file in the office
of the city clerk. If any provision of the ordinances of the city are in
conflict with the provisions of the housing code, the provisions of the housing
code shall prevail. (1990 Code § 5-601; amd. 2004 Code)
9-4-2: PENALTY:
See section
9-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Mechanical Code Adopted; Amendments
9-5-2: Contractors; Registration, Permits And Fees
9-5-3: Penalty
9-5-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on
file in the office of the city clerk, being marked and designated as the
International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, is hereby adopted as the
mechanical code of the city, for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the said BOCA national mechanical code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 487, 6-21-1993; amd. Ord.
821, 8-7-2023)
   B.   Additions, Insertions And Changes: The following sections are hereby
revised as follows:
Section M-101.1 (page 1, second line). Insert: "the City of Poteau, Oklahoma".
Section M-113.2 (page 4, third line). Insert: "Exhibit A", attached to city
ordinance 487, on file in the office of the city clerk".
Section M-113.3 (page 4, third line). Insert: "Exhibit B", attached to city
ordinance 487, on file in the office of the city clerk".
Section M-116.4 (page 5, seventh, eighth and ninth lines). Insert:
"misdemeanor, $50.00 and 5 days".
Section M-117.4 (page 5, fifth and sixth lines). Insert: "$50.00 and $100.00".
(Ord. 487, 6-21-1993; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Saving Clause: Nothing in this section or in the mechanical code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this section. (Ord. 487, 6-21-1993)
9-5-2: CONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Definitions Pursuant To Statute: The phrases and words "mechanical
journeyman", "mechanical apprentice", "mechanical contractor", and
"mechanical", when used in the ordinances, regulations and other official acts
and communications of the city, shall have the meanings respectively prescribed
for them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1850.1 et seq., the state mechanical
license law, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   B.   Certificate Of Registration Required: It is unlawful for any person to
engage in the business, trade, or occupation of a mechanical contractor
(otherwise known as a master mechanic), or of a mechanical journeyman or of a
mechanical contractor's apprentice, in the city unless he is registered with
the city and has a current and valid certificate of registration issued by the
mechanical inspector.
   C.   State Licenses Required: Only persons who have current and valid
licenses as mechanical contractors or as mechanical journeymen issued by the
state commissioner of health as provided by the state mechanical license law
may register as such with the city. Only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as mechanical apprentices issued by the state
commissioner of health as provided by the law, may register as such with the
city.
   D.   Issuance; Term Of Registration:
      1.   Applicants for certificates of registration, after complying with
the laws of the state and with the city code, and after payment of the fee
hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the city.
      2.   The registration shall expire annually, but may be renewed from year
to year. Mechanical contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws and the same
bond is required as set forth by city code.
   E.   Bond: An applicant for mechanical contractor's registration shall also
furnish bond in such sum and such conditions as set by the mayor and city
council.
   F.   Expiration Of Registration: All mechanical contractors' registrations
not renewed within ninety (90) days after the date of expiration thereof shall
be cancelled, and a new application for registration must be made and the fee
for a new registration paid.
   G.   Fee: The fee for registration shall be as set by the city council by
motion or resolution.
   H.   Revocation Of Registration; Notice; Hearing: The city council, upon at
least ten (10) days' notice and adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may
revoke the city registration of any mechanical contractor or mechanical
journeyman for violating any provisions of the ordinances or regulations of the
city relating to mechanical installation or for any other cause specified in
the state mechanical license law. (1990 Code § 5-702)
9-5-3: PENALTY:
See section
9-1-5 of this title for penalty provisions. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Fire Code Adopted; Amendments
9-6-2: Enforcement
9-6-3: Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Explosives
9-6-4: Modifications
9-6-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies; Permits
9-6-6: Appeals
9-6-7: Penalty
9-6-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the office of the city clerk of the city of Poteau, being marked and
designated as the international fire code, 2018 edition, including appendix
chapters A through J as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the fire code for the city of Poteau, in Oklahoma regulating
and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion
hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life and property in
the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collections of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said fire code on
file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions And Changes: The following sections are hereby
revised:
Section 101.1 the city of Poteau, Oklahoma
Section 109.3 refer to section
9-1-5 of the city of Poteau code book
Section 111.4 refer to section
9-1-5 of the city of Poteau code book
   C.   Establishment Of Limits: The geographic limits referred to in certain
sections of the 2009 international fire code are hereby established as follows:
Section 3404.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited):
City of Poteau city limits
Section 3406.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which storage of class I and class II
liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): City of
Poteau city limits
Section 3506.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable cryogenic
fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): City of Poteau city limits
Section 3804.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas):
City of Poteau city limits
(Ord. 697, 1-4-2010, eff. 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 821, 8-7-2023)
9-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The code hereby adopted is enforced by the chief of the fire department. (1990
Code § 13-102)
9-6-3: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Flammable Liquids In Aboveground Tanks: The limits referred to in the
fire code, in which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks
and new bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited, are the city limits,
or as may be established in the city zoning ordinance.
   B.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas: The limits referred to in which bulk storage
of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted are the city limits, or as may be
established in the city zoning ordinance.
   C.   Explosives And Blasting Agents: The limits in which storage of
explosive and blasting agents is prohibited are the city limits. (1990 Code §
13-104)
9-6-4: MODIFICATIONS:
The mayor, with approval of the city council, shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the code hereby adopted in his own discretion or upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of
the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public
safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modifications, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the mayor and
council thereon is entered upon the records of the council and for applications
requesting change, a signed copy is furnished the applicant. (1990 Code § 13-
105)
9-6-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS:
The mayor, the chief of the fire department, and one person appointed by the
mayor with approval of the city council shall act as a committee to determine
and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition
to those now enumerated in the code. The fire chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons. (1990 Code § 13-106)
9-6-6: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (1990 Code § 13-107)
9-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1990 Code § 13-108)
CHAPTER 7
GAS CODES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Liquefied Petroleum Gas
9-7-2: Gas Piping Code
9-7-3: Penalty
9-7-1: LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS:
   A.   Code Adopted:
      1.   Compliance; License Or Permit Required: It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install, or
repair any system, container, apparatus, or appliance to be used for the
transportation, storage, dispensing, or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas,
or to transport, handle, or store such gas, unless such person has complied
with and complies with all provisions of the law and ordinances relating
thereto, and has any license or permit which may be required by state law.
      2.   Pamphlet Controlling: The pamphlet, "Storage And Handling Of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases", as contained in pamphlet no. 58 issued by the
national fire protection association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by
the Oklahoma liquefied petroleum gas board, shall have full force and effect
within the city. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a
violation of the ordinances of the city and shall be punished accordingly.
(1990 Code § 5-401)
   B.   Standards For Use And Installation Of Equipment:
      1.   The use and installation of liquefied petroleum gas equipment shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this section, with the statutes of the
state of Oklahoma, and with any orders, rules or regulations issued by
authority thereof, and with generally recognized standards for safety to
persons and property.
      2.   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this section or by
state statutes, or by any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority
thereof, conformity with the standards of the national fire protection
association for the design, installation, and construction of containers and
pertinent equipment for the "Storage And Handling Of Liquefied Petroleum
Gases", as amended, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with generally
recognized standards for safety to persons and property. (1990 Code § 5-402)
   C.   Permit Required: Before any person shall install any equipment in the
city for the storage, dispensation, or handling of liquefied petroleum gases,
such person, firm or corporation shall first obtain a permit therefor from the
fire marshal of the city; and in granting or refusing such permit, the fire
marshal shall take into consideration the proposed location of such equipment,
and the probable hazards involved by reason of the proposed location thereof.
(1990 Code § 5-403)
   D.   Violation: Any person who shall violate any provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense against the city. (1990 Code § 5-404)
9-7-2: GAS PIPING CODE:
   A.   Pamphlet Adopted: Pamphlet no. 54 published by the National Fire
Protection Association, entitled "National Fuel Gas Code", the latest edition
thereof, is hereby adopted and incorporated in this section by reference. The
pamphlet shall be in full force and effect in the city and shall govern the
installation of gas piping and gas appliances in the city. Any violation of the
provisions of the pamphlet shall be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the
city. (1990 Code § 5-501)
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: No gas plumbing may be done until a permit is
obtained from the city and the fee is paid. All inspections under this section
may be done by the city plumbing inspector. (1990 Code § 5-502)
   C.   Inspection Required Before Connection: No company shall make any
connections with or sell any gas to any owner or consumer who has failed,
neglected or refused to put in the proper size pipe or to comply with the rules
and regulations herein, all of which shall first be inspected and approved by
the plumbing inspector and a clearance slip issued. (1990 Code § 5-503)
   D.   Violation: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
section and refuses, within three (3) days after notice given by the plumbing
inspector, to comply with any of such provisions, shall be guilty of an offense
and punished accordingly. (1990 Code § 5-504)
9-7-3: PENALTY:
For additional penalty provisions, see section
9-1-5 of this title. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM; STREET NAMES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Uniform Numbering System Established
9-8-2: Base Line Streets
9-8-3: Criteria For Assigning Numbers
9-8-4: Assigning Addresses
9-8-5: Adding Suffixes Or Distinctive Names
9-8-6: Plat Showing Addresses On File
9-8-7: Duty Of 911 Office
9-8-8: New Buildings, Application For Numbering
9-8-9: Uniform System Of Street Naming Established
9-8-10: Street Naming Plan
9-8-11: Subdivision Plats
9-8-12: City Authority To Assign Or Change Street Names
9-8-13: Placement Of Street Name Signs
9-8-1: UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a uniform system for numbering the property
frontage on all streets, avenues, and public and private ways on the basing
system of the city comprised of the incorporated city and the part of
unincorporated LeFlore County as described in the letter of agreement
pertaining thereto. All houses and other buildings shall be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-2: BASE LINE STREETS:
Broadway shall constitute the base line for numbering buildings along all
streets running northerly and southerly, and Dewey shall constitute the base
line for numbering buildings along all streets running easterly and westerly.
   A.   Northerly Direction: Each building north of Dewey and facing a street
running in a northerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating
its location north of said base street.
   B.   Southerly Direction: Each building south of Dewey and facing a street
running in a southerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating
its location south of said base street.
   C.   Easterly Direction: Each building east of Broadway and facing a street
running in an easterly direction shall carry a number and address indicating
its location east of said base street.
   D.   Westerly Direction: Each building west of Broadway and facing a street
running in a westerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its
location west of said base street.
   E.   Diagonal Streets:
      1.   All buildings on diagonal streets shall be numbered the same as
buildings on northerly and southerly streets if the diagonal runs more from the
north to the south, and the same rule shall apply on easterly and westerly
streets if the diagonal runs more from the east to the west.
      2.   All buildings on diagonal streets having a deviation of exactly
forty five degrees (45°) shall be numbered the same as buildings on northerly
and southerly streets. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-3: CRITERIA FOR ASSIGNING NUMBERS:
   A.   Basis For Numbering: The numbering of buildings on each street shall be
based on its block number. The block numbering for each street shall have begun
at the base line. All numbers shall be assigned on the basis of one for each
fifty feet (50') of street frontage, with single building occupancy, the
building shall be the nearest number within the sequence of fifty foot (50')
assignment.
   B.   Odd And Even Numbers: All buildings on the south and west sides of each
street shall bear odd numbers. All buildings on the north and east sides of
each street shall bear even numbers.
   C.   More Than One Entrance:
      1.   Where any building has more than one entrance serving separate
occupants, a separate number shall be assigned to each entrance serving a
separate occupant, provided said building occupies a lot, parcel, or tract
having a frontage equal to fifty feet (50') for each such entrance.
      2.   If the building is not located on a lot, parcel, or tract which
would permit the assignment of one number to each such entrance, numerals and
letters shall be used, as set forth in section
9-8-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Streets Not Extending To Base: All buildings facing streets not
extending through to the base line shall be assigned the same relative block
numbers derived from the block, grid system as if the said street were extended
to the said base line. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-4: ASSIGNING ADDRESSES:
   A.   Survey By Police Department: The police department shall do a survey to
determine the address of property requiring the assignment of address or
requiring a change of address under the terms of this chapter. Thereafter,
there shall be assigned to each house and other residential, commercial,
industrial, or public building located on, or gaining access to, any street,
avenue, or public way in said system, its respective number under the uniform
system provided for in this chapter according to said survey.
   B.   Notify Owners, Postal Service, Utilities:
      1.   When the said survey shall have been completed and each house or
building has been assigned its respective number or numbers, the city shall
notify by letter:
         a.   The owner, occupant, or agent of affected house or building.
         b.   The U.S. postal service, the major utilities serving the address
area, and emergency services such as police and sheriff, fire departments and
ambulance service.
      2.   The city shall make a record of the date of the letter sent and the
address to which it was mailed.
   C.   Placing Numbers On Buildings: The owner, occupant, or agent of the
affected house or building shall place or cause to be placed upon each house or
building, the number or numbers assigned under the address system as provided
in this chapter.
   D.   Owner Responsibility; Size Of Numbers:
      1.   Such number or numbers shall be placed on existing buildings within
thirty (30) days from the date of the letter of notification.
      2.   The cost of the number or numbers shall be paid for by the property
owner.
      3.   The numbers used shall not be less than three inches (3") in height
for residential structures and shall not be less than six inches (6") in height
for nonresidential structures. The numbers shall be of a durable reflective
material on a color contrasting background to promote enhanced visibility.
   E.   Proper Display Of Numbers:
      1.   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on or
at the side of, the proper door of each building so that the number can be seen
plainly from the street on which the number is based.
      2.   Wherever any building is situated so that the number is not clearly
discernible from the street line, or vision of the building from the street is
otherwise obscured, the number or numbers assigned shall be placed near the
walk, driveway or common entrance to such buildings, and affixed upon a gate
post, fence, mailbox, post, or other appropriate place so as to be easily
discernible.
      3.   Numbers painted or stenciled on the curb shall not be a lawful
substitute for the display of address numbers prescribed by this chapter. (Ord.
468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-5: ADDING SUFFIXES OR DISTINCTIVE NAMES:
   A.   Suffixes:
      1.   Where only one number can be assigned to any house or building, the
owner, occupant, or agent of such house or building who shall desire
distinctive numbers for the upper and lower portion of any house or building,
or for any part of any such house or building fronting on any street; such
owner, occupant, or agent shall be assigned the suffix (A), (B), (C), etc., as
may be required.
      2.   Fractional numbers shall not be used as an alternative to
alphabetical designations.
   B.   Distinctive Names: Distinctive names such as 1st Place, Plaza One, or
the like, may be used by owners to name business locations. However, businesses
so named shall also display the correct assigned address number or numbers in
accord with this chapter. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-6: PLAT SHOWING ADDRESSES ON FILE:
   A.   Plat Book Filed With Police Department: For the purpose of facilitating
correct numbering, a plat book of all streets, avenues, and public ways within
the city and county service area showing the proper numbers of all houses or
other buildings fronting upon all streets, avenues, public or private ways
shall be kept on file in the police department.
   B.   Plats Open To Inspection: These plats shall be open to inspection to
all persons during the office hours of the chief.
   C.   Duplicate Copies: Duplicate copies of such plats shall be furnished to
the city engineer, building inspector and other appropriate offices or persons
on the city office staff. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-7: DUTY OF 911 OFFICE:
It shall be the duty of the 911 office to inform any party applying for address
numbers therefor of the number or numbers belonging to or embraced within the
limits of any said lot or property as provided in this chapter. In case of
conflict as to the proper number to be assigned to any building, the 911 office
shall determine the number of such building. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-8: NEW BUILDINGS, APPLICATION FOR NUMBERING:
   A.   Application To 911 Office: The owner or agent proposing to locate any
house, building or structure in need of an address, in the address service area
of the city, shall apply to the 911 office for the assignment of the correct
number or numbers.
   B.   Building Permit Issuance:
      1.   In the building permit issuing area, no building permit shall be
issued for structures in need of any address and no mail shall be delivered
until the owner or agent has been assigned the correct address.
      2.   The applicant is encouraged to post a temporary sign displaying the
assigned address number at the construction site until such time the permit
number can be displayed.
   C.   Areas Where Building Permits Not Issued: In those parts of the address
service area where building permits are not issued, the owner or agent shall
apply to the 911 office for the assignment of the correct address.
   D.   Permanent And Proper Numbers Required: Final approval of any structure
erected, repaired or altered for occupancy after the effective date of this
chapter shall be withheld by the building inspector and no mail shall be
delivered until permanent and proper numbers have been affixed. (Ord. 468, 11-
19-1991)
9-8-9: UNIFORM SYSTEM OF STREET NAMING ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a uniform system of street naming in the address
service area of the city and all streets, avenues, and other public and private
ways shall be named in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Streets Running In Same Direction: A street or other public roadway
running in the same direction and having an angular deviation of not more than
ninety degrees (90°) for a distance of not more than three hundred fifteen feet
(315') shall carry the same name unless special circumstances make such a plan
impracticable or not feasible.
   B.   Duplication Prohibited: Street names shall not be duplicated within the
address service area.
   C.   Dead End Or Cul-De-Sac Streets: That part of any street ending in a
permanent dead end, or cul-de-sac, shall not carry the designation street,
avenue, or road but may carry the designation place, cove, trail, etc.
   D.   Further Designations: The city council may adopt further designations
or any additional rules and regulations which may be required from time to time
upon recommendations of the planning commission by amending this section. (Ord.
468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-10: STREET NAMING PLAN:
For the purpose of clarifying and systematizing the present street naming
pattern in the address service area and to implement the application of the
matters set forth in section
9-8-9 of this chapter, there is hereby adopted the following plan:
   A.   Planning Commission Recommendations; County Review:
      1.   The city planning commission is hereby authorized to prepare and
present to the city council a recommendation for the naming of all unnamed
streets, avenues, and public and private ways within the address service area
of the city and to propose new names to eliminate duplications and sound alike
street names.
      2.   The proposals for new names to eliminate duplications and sound
alike street names that occur in unincorporated parts of the address service
area shall be reviewed with the director of county operations in accord with
the letter of agreement.
   B.   Guidelines:
      1.   The following guidelines for renaming existing streets may be used
as criteria when considering the changing of a duplicate or sound alike street
name:
         a.   Does one street have any historical reason for its name?
         b.   Which street has the least number of structures on it and thus
would require the least number of address changes?
         c.   Which street has had its name for the longest period of time?
         d.   Is the name and thoroughfare designation suffix appropriate
according to other street names in the neighborhood?
         e.   Which street name is used for the longest distance or the most
traveled section?
      2.   Priorities can be established by numerically weighing the importance
of these items. Streets with the highest total number would be given priority
for name retention.
   C.   Names Proposed By Developers: Developers of property are encouraged to
propose street names on plats containing new streets under the guidelines of
this chapter. All such names are subject to review by the planning commission
for compliance with this chapter, and the letter of agreement. (Ord. 468, 11-
19-1991)
9-8-11: SUBDIVISION PLATS:
Every subdivision plat submitted to the city council for their approval after
the effective date hereof shall bear upon its face, the report of the planning
commission of the proper names of any and all streets, avenues, and public ways
proposed for public use, including private streets within the jurisdiction of
the city. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-12: CITY AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN OR CHANGE STREET NAMES:
The city council, by resolution, may change, rename, or name an existing or
newly established street within the limits of said basing system at any time
after the adoption of this chapter, upon recommendation of the planning
commission, and after consultation with the LeFlore County commissioners, and
any other municipality directly affected thereby. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
9-8-13: PLACEMENT OF STREET NAME SIGNS:
   A.   Placement: Street name signs should be erected in urban areas at all
street intersections regardless of other route marking that may be present,
i.e., state and county route numbers. In rural parts of the addressing service
area, street name markers should be installed to identify important roads and
at the intersection of all streets created through plats of addition for
nonagriculture, forestry or mining purposes.
   B.   Future Streets: The developers of property, when said property
development is required to undergo the subdivision review process, shall erect,
at the developer's expense, all street name signs at the intersection of any
new streets and at the intersection of new streets with existing streets. The
signs shall be in conformance with the specifications as administered by the
city engineer or, when beyond the planning area of the city, the specifications
as administered by the director of county operations, LeFlore County.
   C.   Block Numbers: In nonurban areas of the county and in instances where
street names are changed to eliminate duplications, whether urban or rural, and
all future streets, it shall be appropriate to include the address block number
on street name markers. (Ord. 468, 11-19-1991)
CHAPTER 9
OIL, GAS, AND DISPOSAL WELL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-9-1: General Provisions
9-9-2: Permits, Development, And Maintenance
9-9-3: Penalty
9-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to do
or perform, or cause to be done or performed, any work or labor of any kind
upon or in connection with the drilling, mining or producing of oil, gas, or
other minerals within the corporate limits of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma,
except as permitted under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions, unless the context otherwise
requires, shall be used in this chapter:
   BLOWOUT PREVENTER: A mechanical, hydraulic or pneumatic or other device, or
combination of such devices secured to the top of a well casing, including
valves, fittings, and control mechanisms connected therewith which can be
closed around the drill pipe, or which completely closes the top of the casing
and is designed for preventing blowouts.
   CITY COUNCIL: The mayor and council members of the city.
   CITY INSPECTOR: All officers of the city of Poteau who have responsibility
for enforcing this code, or their duly authorized representative.
   CITY STAFF: Salaried employees of the city or any administrative officer of
the city.
   CORPORATION COMMISSION: The corporation commission of the state of Oklahoma.
   DISPOSAL WELL: Any well drilled or actually used for injection of salt water
or other substances into the earth at a point other or different than the point
of extraction or production thereof from the earth.
   DRILLING: Digging or boring a hole in the earth for purposes of exploring
for, developing or producing oil, gas, and other hydrocarbons. Drilling
includes all operations through the completion of a well.
   DRILLING SITE: The premises used during the drilling, maintaining,
operating, and producing of a well or wells located thereupon.
   OIL OR GAS WELL: Any well drilled, operated, or maintained for the
production of oil, gas, casing head gas, or any of them, or their byproducts or
derivations.
   PERSON: An association, company, corporation, firm, or organization, as well
as individual, unless the context indicates that the term refers only to an
individual. The term includes an assignee, receiver, trustee, or similar
authorized representative of any of the named entities.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Poteau city planning commission. (Ord. 688, 10-6-
2008)
9-9-2: PERMITS, DEVELOPMENT, AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Drilling Permit And Site Plan: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drill or to maintain and operate any oil, gas, or disposal well within the
corporate limits of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, without first having obtained
a permit to do so as hereinafter provided. A permit issued under the provisions
of this section shall expire six (6) months after the date of issuance thereof,
unless operations for the drilling of an oil or gas disposal well have been
commenced on the land described in the permit prior thereto.
      1.   Permit Application: Every person desiring to drill, maintain, or
operate any oil, gas or disposal well within the city of Poteau, Oklahoma,
shall file an application in writing upon the appropriate form as required by
the building official and signed by the applicant or his agent authorized to
sign same. Such application shall include the following:
         a.   The quarter section, section, township, and range, as well as the
location within the quarter section so as to identify the well location within
a particular ten (10) acre tract;
         b.   A bonded abstractor's certified list of names and mailing
addresses of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundary of the well site;
         c.   A filing fee as established by resolution of the city council;
and
         d.   A drill site development plan which covers and includes that
phase of the oil well operation including drilling operations and which shall
contain the following information:
            (1)   Written legal description;
            (2)   Scale drawing of the property and appropriate dimensions;
            (3)   Scale, north arrow, date, legend;
            (4)   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner and
applicant;
            (5)   Location and size of existing easements, utilities, and
rights of way;
            (6)   Signature blocks, with wording provided by city staff, for
the applicant, planning commission, and city council;
            (7)   Location and dimension of all vehicular entrances, exits, and
drives;
            (8)   General drainage system;
            (9)   Size of site;
            (10)   Location of all physical facilities to include, but not
limited to, proposed wells, heat treaters, structures, portable toilets, and
relationship to all buildings within a six hundred foot (600') radius;
            (11)   A statement describing all pollution prevention equipment to
be utilized. (It shall be the policy of the city to require blowout prevention
devices on every drilling operation covered hereunder.); and
            (12)   Location of all mud pits.
      2.   Site Plan Review: The drill site development plan shall be reviewed
by the city staff and the planning commission for compliance with this chapter,
other relevant provisions of this code and the comprehensive plan. The findings
and recommendations of city staff and the planning commission shall then be
reported to the city council.
Upon required notice being given, the city council shall hold a public hearing
(see section
11-2-3 of this code) to review the drill site development plan, receive
comments from interested parties, and receive the recommendation of city staff
and the planning commission.
      3.   Site Plan Decision: The city council shall approve, approve
conditionally, return to the planning commission for further study, or
disapprove the drill site development plan. In the case of any action other
than approval, the city council shall state the reasons for its actions.
Approval of the drill site development plan shall be documented by signatures
of the presiding officers of the planning commission and the city council and
acceptance by signature of the owner(s) on certificates containing wording
furnished by the department of community development to be located on the
original reproducible drawing of the site plan. A reproducible copy of the
drill site development plan with all required signatures shall be furnished to
the department of community development at the applicant's expense.
      4.   Adherence To Site Plan: The land within the area covered by the
drill site development plan shall be developed only in accordance with the
drill site development plan as finally approved by the city council. Any
change, erasure, modification, revision, or deviation from that plan shall be
considered invalid and a violation of the provisions of this chapter unless
said change, erasure, modification, revision, or deviation shall have first
been submitted to the city of Poteau and approved according to the above
procedure.
      5.   Second Site Plan: Prior to operation and maintenance thereof, the
person having made application, shall prepare and submit to the city a second
drill site development plan which shall cover the completed or producing well
phase of the well operation, and which drill site development plan may be the
original drill site development plan as submitted to the city with amendments
made thereto, or may be a new and original drill site development plan;
provided that in either case, said drill site development plan shall contain
the following information:
         a.   General location of tank batteries and size of tank battery site;
         b.   Any oil, gas, or water lines to be utilized;
         c.   Location of ingress and egress to be utilized by the applicant
and to include all vehicular entrances, exits, and drives;
         d.   Type of screening devices or construction to be utilized around
the pumping site, which screening shall be required to be of such type so as to
discourage access, entry, or climbing so as to endanger life and security; all
screening shall be of aesthetic design, composed of suitable natural or manmade
material, at least seventy five percent (75%) opaque, and not less than five
feet (5') high; the gates to any oil operation shall be kept locked with a
padlock that cannot be cut with common bolt cutters at all times during which
the oil production site is unattended;
         e.   The location and size, which shall be no more than twenty four by
thirty inches (24 x 30"), of a sign which shall contain the name, address and
number of the oil producing company, and which sign shall be posted at the
drilling site for use in any emergency notice which might arise.
      6.   Second Site Plan Review: City staff shall, within seven (7) days of
receipt, review and consider the second drill site development plan as
submitted. Upon receipt of the second drill site development plan city staff
shall inform all adjacent property owners of the filing of the second drill
site development plan. At the time of said consideration, city staff shall have
the authority, when in the interest of the public peace, health, and safety, to
amend the plan as originally submitted prior to granting their approval. The
site development plan shall then be considered to be approved as amended and
containing those additional restrictions and regulations as placed on the plan
by the city staff unless a protest is filed with the building official within
seven (7) days of the decision. If a protest is received the protestant shall
have the right to appeal to the city council.
      7.   Simultaneous Submission Of Site Plans: If both the first and second
drill site development plans are submitted at the same time, both plans shall
be considered by the city council at the same public hearing.
      8.   Second Site Plan Exemption: The filing of said second drill site
development plan shall not be required of wells in operation prior to May 2,
1976.
      9.   Change In Ownership: Should a change in ownership of the oil, gas,
or disposal well occur after approval of the first drill site development plan
and/or after a drilling permit has been issued, the drill site development plan
or, the drilling permit as issued, shall be considered to be transferable to
the person, firm, corporation, or association purchasing and taking over
operation of the oil, gas, or disposal well, provided that said person, firm,
corporation, or association meets and complies with the provisions of this
chapter including, but not limited to, those provisions relating to bonds and
insurance required in subsection E of this section.
      10.   Revocation Of Permit: If the permittee fails to comply with any
provision, restriction, or regulations of this chapter, as applied to said
permit, the permit issued to such permittee may be revoked by the city council
after giving written notice to such permittee of the facts or conduct which
warrant the intended action, and affording the permittee an opportunity to show
compliance with all lawful requirements for the retention of the permit. Any
such permittee whose permit has been revoked may apply for a new permit upon a
showing of compliance with all requirements of this chapter.
      11.   Permittee Assumes Risk: The city is not a guarantor of the
competence of the permittee as to drilling operations. A permit is not an
expression by the city that any proposed oil operation can be done with safety
to the operator or other persons or property. All of such risks are assumed by
the permittee.
   B.   Inspections: For purposes of this chapter, city staff may inspect any
well operation at any time after issuance of a drilling permit for purposes of
ensuring conformance with the requirements of this chapter. Any applicant for a
drilling permit hereunder shall be deemed to have granted the agents of the
city the right of entry onto those properties covered by the drilling permit
for the purposes of carrying out the inspections required by the city and under
which shall be made by the building official. Such inspections include:
      1.   An inspection to be made during drilling operations and which
inspection shall cover those facets of the drilling operations covered by the
drilling operation site plan;
      2.   An inspection to be made during pumping operations and which
inspection shall cover those facets of the pumping operations covered by the
pumping operation site plan;
      3.   An inspection following removal of the well and equipment, which
inspection shall be made to ensure that the land is returned as nearly as
practical to its previous original topography.
   C.   Pollution: There is hereby adopted by the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, the
"Rules And Regulations Of The Corporation Commission Of The State Of Oklahoma",
including, but not limited to, the "General Rules And Regulations Of The Oil
And Gas Conservation Division", a copy of which has been filed in the office of
the city clerk of the city of Poteau, Oklahoma, and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. In addition, the
following requirements must also be met:
      1.   The premises upon which any oil, gas or disposal well is drilled,
operated, or maintained shall be kept free of all accumulations of rubbish,
litter, unused equipment, or discarded materials, and other wastes insofar as
the same may be reasonably done in the conduct of operations covered by this
chapter.
      2.   All lands upon which a drilling operation is or has been operated
shall, within a reasonable length of time, not to exceed one year, be returned,
as nearly as practical, to the previous original topography and natural state
unless the applicant has paid damages for removal for anything other than
ground cover, in which case the applicant must, in lieu of returning the land
to its natural state and topography, provide ground cover in the interest of
abating erosion thereof.
   D.   Spacing Requirements: Wells and drilling operations and oil, gas, or
disposal wells shall meet the following spacing requirements:
      1.   No well or drilling operation shall be located, drilled, or operated
within four hundred feet (400') of any residential dwelling unit located within
any residentially zoned district. In all other zoning districts of the city, no
well or drilling operation shall be located, drilled, or operated within two
hundred feet (200') of any existing permanent structure. It is further
provided, however, that in the event permission is secured from one hundred
percent (100%) of the owners thereof, which permission shall be evidenced by
the signing of a verified petition consenting to and approving of the drilling,
operation, and location of such well, which petition shall be filed with the
first drill site development plan, such well in that case may not be located
closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any of the above named
structures. It is further provided, that when a well or drilling operation is
to be located within four hundred feet (400') of any residential dwelling as
provided above, said applicant must provide the address of all dwelling units
located closer than four hundred feet (400') of the well location when the
property owner has signed the petition allowing this to happen.
      2.   No oil, gas, or disposal well shall be drilled, operated, or
maintained, nor shall any operations in connection therewith be carried on or
conducted within six hundred sixty feet (660') of any public school or hospital
building within the city unless the governing body owning said structure
consents in writing to a lesser distance, which distance shall be set by said
governing body.
   E.   Bonds And Insurance Required: At the time of filing an application for
a drilling permit as required above, the applicant shall file with the city
clerk of the city of Poteau a copy of the certificate of insurance issued by
some corporate insurance company licensed to do business within the state of
Oklahoma, evidencing current insurance of the owner, his driller, agents, and
employees conditioned for the payment of all damages due to injury to persons
or damage to property resulting from the drilling operations, or maintenance of
the proposed well or any structure, machinery, equipment, pipelines, or
appurtenances used in connection therewith, in an amount not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Said policy shall further provide that
it shall not be canceled until thirty (30) days' written notice of such
cancellation shall have been given to and filed with the city clerk of said
city. Such applicant shall also submit a copy of his agreement made with the
corporation commission to drill, operate, and plug wells in compliance with the
rules and regulations of the corporation commission. This material must also
include evidence of financial ability to comply with the requirements for
plugging, closure of surface impoundments, removal of trash and equipment as
established by the rules and regulations of the corporation commission and by
law. Said written agreement and evidence of financial ability will serve as a
guarantee to the city that the rules and regulations of the corporation
commission are being followed and to the applicant that the full enforcement of
those regulations will apply to the abandonment of any well operation within
the city of Poteau.
   F.   Annual Inspection Permit: Annual inspection permits for the operation
and maintenance of all completed and operating oil and gas wells, now existing
or hereafter drilled, are hereby required, and shall be issued upon the payment
of the annual inspection fee provided for herein. Such annual inspection fee
shall be paid on or before July 1 of each year of operation after the issuance
of the drilling permit, or, if no such permit was required or obtained, within
sixty (60) days after the effective date of this chapter. The permit fee for
the drilling of an oil or gas well and the annual inspection fee shall be in
amounts established by resolution of the city council. Upon payment of the
annual inspection fee, and upon meeting the drill site development requirements
contained in subsection A of this section, if said drill site development plan
is required, the city clerk shall issue the annual permit contained herein.
   G.   Corporation Commission Rules And Regulations: The applicant for any
such drilling permit or annual inspection permit, the drilling contractor and
their agents or employees shall comply with all orders, rules and regulations
of the corporation commission of the state of Oklahoma, where applicable,
including, but not limited to, all rules and regulations of said commission
with respect to drilling, plugging and abandonment of such wells.
   H.   Zoning: An oil, gas, or disposal well may be drilled, operated and
maintained as a matter of right in all industrial districts, and as a use
permitted on review in all residential and commercial districts. In the
agricultural district oil and gas wells shall be permitted as a matter of right
and disposal wells shall require a use permit. Applications for use permits
will be processed in accordance with the provisions of this code relating to
special use permits.
   I.   Additional Conditions And Requirements: In addition to the conditions
applying to oil well drilling operations contained herein, the city council
hereby declares that in the interest of protecting the people of the city and
the use and enjoyment of their property and providing for their comfort, health
and safety, and general welfare, the following additional conditions and
restrictions are adopted:
      1.   All well operations which are placed upon the pump shall be powered
by electricity. All permanent equipment shall be painted, where possible, and
kept in a neat condition. All production operations shall be as free from noise
as possible with modern operations.
      2.   All power operations other than drilling and pulling units shall at
all times be carried on only by means of electrical power, which power shall
not be generated on the drilling site.
      3.   All completion and routine maintenance will be done during daylight
hours only except in an emergency.
      4.   No sign shall be constructed, erected, maintained, or placed on the
premises or any part thereof, except those required by law or this code to be
displayed in connection with the drilling, maintenance, or operation of the
well. (Ord. 688, 10-6-2008)
9-9-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense punishable in accordance with section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord. 688, 10-6-2008)
CHAPTER 10
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Residential Code Adopted; Amendments
9-10-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file
in the office of the Poteau city clerk, being marked and designated as the
international residential code, 2018 edition, as published by the International
Code Council (including attached additional requirements from the city of
Poteau) be and is hereby adopted as the residential code of the city of Poteau
in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location,
removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple
single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories in height
with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said residential code on file
in the office of the Poteau city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are revised:
Section R101.0 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Residential Code
For One- And Two-Family Dwellings Of The City Of Poteau, and shall be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as "this code."
Table R301.2(1) Exterior Walls.
Section P2603.6.1 Building sewers that connect to private sewage disposal
systems shall be a minimum of 12 inches (305 mm) below finished grade at the
point of septic tank connection. Building sewers shall be a minimum of 12
inches (305 mm) below grade.
Exhibit A "Attached City Of Poteau Building Requirements."
(Ord. 696, 1-4-2010, eff. 1-4-2010; amd. Ord. 821, 8-7-2023)
CHAPTER 11
HOSPITALS AND HEALTHCARE FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definitions
9-11-2: Hospitals
9-11-3: Healthcare Facilities
9-11-4: Enforcement
9-11-5: Penalty
9-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
HEALTHCARE CENTER OR FACILITY: Either a fixed and/or a mobile establishment
with an organized staff of healthcare professionals, with facilities that are
equipped and operated primarily for the purpose of performing the following,
but not limited to: radiology, oncology, surgical, imaging, cardiac, and
cardiopulmonary procedures, including, but not limited to, physician services,
and healthcare professionals or nursing services available whenever a patient
is in the facility, which provides services or other accommodations for
patients for treatment, diagnosis, or recovery for a period of not to exceed
twenty three (23) hours. This definition does not include and shall not apply
to any existing center or facility of the type that are described above that
exist in the City of Poteau as of January 7, 2019. Further, this definition
does not include and does not apply to the re-modeling or expansion of any
center or facility of the type that are described above that exist in the City
of Poteau as of January 7, 2019 and shall not include and does not apply to the
relocation of such an existing center or facility or to the purchase or sale of
such an existing center or facility. This definition does not include
establishments that are organized or operated primarily for the purpose of
dental care or optometric care.
HOSPITAL: Any institution, place, building or agency, public or private whether
organized for profit or not, devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation
of facilities of the diagnosis, treatment for care of patients admitted for
overnight stay or longer in order to obtain medical care, surgical care,
obstetrical care, or nursing care for illness, disease, injury, infirmity, or
deformity.
NONCITY: Said hospital or healthcare center or facility is not owned and/or
operated by the City of Poteau or LeFlore County or that the hospital or
healthcare center or facility is not a public trust with the City of Poteau or
LeFlore County as beneficiary. (Ord. 764, 1-7-2019; amd. Ord. 766, 4-1-2019)
9-11-2: HOSPITALS:
   A.   No new hospital shall be developed, either through construction or
conversion of existing space, or an existing noncity hospital expanded, in the
City of Poteau, Oklahoma, unless a permit therefor has been issued by the City
Clerk.
   B.   Before developing a facility for use as a licensed hospital or
expanding an existing noncity hospital, the person, firm or corporation,
proposing to operate the hospital shall apply to the City Clerk for a permit
for the facility, which shall be in addition to any other required approvals.
The application for permit shall be in such form as the City Clerk shall
prescribe and shall include a demonstration of the hospital's or hospital
expansion's probable impact on existing hospital and surgical services in the
City of Poteau including permitted facilities not yet completed.
   C.   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a filing fee equal
to five percent (5%) of the capital cost of the proposed hospital plus two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), with a minimum fee of three thousand
five hundred dollars ($3,500.00) and a maximum fee chargeable hereunder of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). It is intended that the fee charged herein
shall be used to cover the costs of the application administration and
evaluation by the City staff in an amount of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). In addition, the remainder of the application fee shall be used to
pay all costs for a feasibility study, to be conducted by a recognized
healthcare industry consulting firm, demonstrating the existence of the matters
herein, declared essential for determination by the City Council, prior to the
issuance of such a permit, as well as costs of publication and other matters
required to be accomplished under this chapter. Any portion of the application
fee not so expended shall be refunded to the applicant. If it is determined
that costs of the feasibility study shall exceed the amount submitted with the
application fee, the City Clerk or Mayor or his/her designee, shall notify the
applicant, in writing. Said applicant shall submit the additional amount
requested within ten (10) days or the application shall be stayed until such
time as the remainder of the application fee is submitted to the City Clerk.
   D.   Within two (2) working days after receipt of the application fee the
City Clerk shall provide the applicant with a notice of receipt and shall
present to the Mayor or his/her designee, the application for permit. Within
ten (10) days after receiving a completed application for permit, the Mayor or
his/her designee shall cause a paid public notice to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area where the hospital or hospital
expansion is to be located and in a newspaper of general circulation in the
area where the application is available for inspection. The notice shall
include the name and proposed location of the facility, a brief description of
the proposal, information on where the original application can be viewed, and
an explanation of how parties may file material to be considered along with the
application. The Mayor or his/her designee shall also request information on
firm conducting feasibility study, with consideration given to all costs
related to said study.
   E.   Any person may submit written evidence and argument regarding the
proposed hospital to the Mayor or his/her designee to be reviewed by City staff
and the Planning and Zoning Commission. Written materials shall be submitted to
Community Development within thirty (30) days after publication of the paid
notice. The Mayor or his/her designee shall immediately provide these materials
to the applicant by certified mail or in person with the applicant signing a
receipt. The applicant shall have fifteen (15) days after receipt of the
materials, to respond in writing to materials timely filed by other persons.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be provided with all materials
included in the application process described herein and at a meeting to be
held within sixty (60) days of the completion of process. The application and
feasibility study shall be examined by the Planning and Zoning Commission, who
shall make a recommendation to the City Council.
   F.   No permit to establish a hospital or expand an existing hospital shall
be issued by the City Clerk unless, after reviewing the application, the
feasibility study and timely filed written material and responses, the Mayor or
his/her designee shall provide to the City Council the following findings made
by the Planning and Zoning Commissioners:
      1.   The proposed hospital will contribute to the orderly development of
hospital and surgical services in the City of Poteau; and
      2.   The proposed hospital will not cause an undue financial or staffing
hardship on any existing provider of essential hospital or surgical services in
the City of Poteau including permitted facilities not yet completed, which
hardship shall be deemed potentially capable of causing the existing facility
to alter its services to such a degree that it will adversely impact the
citizens of Poteau, Oklahoma; and
      3.   The proposed hospital can be adequately served by the City's
existing utility systems and/or infrastructure; and
      4.   The proposed hospital or existing hospital expansion will not cause
an increase in the cost of medical care which would adversely impact the
citizens of the City of Poteau. The findings of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be summarized with appropriate documentation by the Mayor or
his/her designee, with said findings to be provided to the City Council for its
consideration in determining the granting or denial of said permit.
   G.   The Mayor or his/her designee shall schedule the application for permit
for consideration by the City Council within one hundred fifty (150) days after
publication of the paid notice. A permit shall be effective for thirty six (36)
months from the date of issue of the permit, during which time an applicant
shall start construction or conversion work on the hospital or hospital
expansion. At the time the building permit is issued, the applicant shall
submit a construction schedule to the City. If construction or conversion work
is not started within the time required by this section, the permit shall be
null and void. The City Council in approving or denying the application, will
consider the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, but only
grant or deny the application subsequent to its consideration of those items
addressed in subsection F of this section.
   H.   In the event the City Council approves the application for permit
submitted by the prospective builders, it shall be understood that all existing
requirements contained in this title and title 11 of this Code, dealing with
appropriate zoning and building standards, shall be complied with by the permit
recipient. (Ord. 764, 1-7-2019)
9-11-3: HEALTHCARE FACILITIES:
   A.   Permit Required: No new healthcare facility shall be developed, either
through construction, expansion, or conversion of existing space, or an
existing noncity healthcare facility expanded, in the City of Poteau, Oklahoma,
unless a permit therefor has been issued by the City Clerk.
   B.   Application: Before developing a facility for use as a licensed
healthcare facility either fixed and/or mobile or expanding an existing noncity
facility, the person proposing to operate the healthcare facility shall apply
to the City Clerk for a permit for the facility in addition to any other
required approvals. The application for permit shall be in such form as the
City Clerk shall prescribe and shall include a demonstration of the healthcare
facility's probable impact on the existing healthcare services in the City of
Poteau including permitted facilities not yet completed.
   C.   Filing Fee: The application for permit shall be accompanied by a filing
fee equal to five percent (5%) of the capital cost of the proposed healthcare
facility plus two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) with a minimum of
three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00) and a maximum fee chargeable
hereunder of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). It is intended that the fee
charged herein shall be used to cover the cost of the application
administration and evaluation by the City staff in an amount of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). In addition, the remainder of the application
fee shall be used to pay all costs for a feasibility study, to be conducted by
a recognized healthcare industry consulting firm, demonstrating the existence
of the matters herein, declared essential for determination by the City
Council, prior to the issuance of such a permit, as well as costs of
publication and other matters required to be accomplished under this chapter.
Any portion of the application fee not so expended shall be refunded to the
applicant. If it is determined that costs of the feasibility study shall exceed
the amount submitted with the application fee, the City Clerk or Mayor or his/
her designee, shall notify the applicant, in writing. Said applicant shall
submit the additional amount requested within ten (10) days or the application
shall be stayed until such time as the remainder of the application fee is
submitted to the City Clerk.
   D.   Available For Inspection: Within two (2) working days after receipt of
the application fee, the City Clerk shall provide the applicant with a notice
of receipt and shall present to the Mayor or his/her designee, the application
for permit. Within ten (10) days after receiving a completed application for
permit, the Mayor or his/her designee shall cause a paid public notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
healthcare facility or facility expansion is to be located and in a newspaper
of general circulation in the area where the application is available for
inspection. The notice shall include the name and proposed location of the
facility, a brief description of the proposal, information on where the
original application can be viewed, and an explanation how parties may file
materials to be considered along with the application. The Mayor or his/her
designee shall also request information on the firm.
   E.   Response To Application: Any person may submit written evidence and
argument regarding the proposed healthcare facility to the Mayor or his/her
designee to be reviewed by City staff and the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Written materials shall be submitted to the Mayor or his/her designee within
thirty (30) days after publication of the paid notice, the Mayor or his/her
designee shall immediately provide these materials to the applicant by
certified mail or in person with the applicant signing a receipt. The applicant
shall have fifteen (15) days after receipt of the materials to respond in
writing to material timely filed by other persons. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be provided with all material included in the application
process described herein and at a meeting to be held within sixty (60) days of
the completion of process. The application and feasibility study shall be
examined by the Planning and Zoning Commission, who shall make a recommendation
to the City Council.
   F.   Requirements For Approval: No permit to establish a healthcare facility
or to expand an existing noncity facility shall be issued by the City Clerk
unless, after reviewing the application, the feasibility study and timely filed
written materials and responses, the Mayor or his/her designee shall provide to
the City Council the following findings made by the Planning and Zoning
Commissioners:
      1.   The proposed healthcare facility will contribute to the orderly
development of hospital and healthcare services in the City of Poteau; and
      2.   The proposed healthcare facility will not cause an undue financial
or staffing hardship on any existing provider of essential hospital or
healthcare services in the City of Poteau including permitted facilities not
yet completed, which hardship shall be deemed potentially capable of causing
the existing facility to alter its services to such a degree that it will
adversely impact the citizens of Poteau, Oklahoma; and
      3.   The proposed healthcare facility can be adequately served by the
City's existing utility systems and/or infrastructure to include disposal of
biochemical hazards; and
      4.   The proposed healthcare facility or expansion of such facility will
not cause an increase in the cost of medical care, which would adversely impact
the citizens of the City of Poteau. The findings of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be summarized with appropriate documentation by the Mayor or
his/her designee, with said findings to be provided to the City Council for its
consideration in determining the granting or denial of said permit.
   G.   Approval; Construction Schedule: The Mayor or his/her designee shall
schedule the application for permit for consideration by the City Council
within one hundred fifty (150) days after publication of the paid notice. A
permit shall be effective for thirty six (36) months from the date of issue,
during which time an applicant shall start construction or conversion work on
the healthcare facility. At the time the building permit is issued, the
applicant shall submit a construction schedule to the City. If construction or
conversion work is not started within the time required by this section, the
permit shall be null and void. The City Council in approving or denying the
application will consider the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, but only grant or deny the application subsequent to its
consideration of those items addressed in subsection F of this section.
   H.   Comply With Existing Requirements: In the event the City Council
approves the application for permit submitted by the prospective builders, it
shall be understood that all existing requirements contained in this title and
title 11 of this Code, dealing with appropriate zoning and building standards,
shall be complied with by the permit recipient.
   I.   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this chapter is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
   J.   Emergency Declared: That by reason of it being extremely advantageous
for the protection of the health and safety of the citizens of the City of
Poteau, that there be no decrease in the provision of medical services, or
undue financial or staffing hardships imposed on any hospital or healthcare
services in the City of Poteau and to be assured that any additional facilities
can be adequately served by the City's existing utility systems and/or
infrastructure, it is hereby deemed and declared necessary for the preservation
for the public health, peace and safety that this chapter shall become
operative immediately; wherefore an emergency is hereby declared to exist and
this chapter shall be in full force and effective immediately from and after
its passage and approval. (Ord. 764, 1-7-2019)
9-11-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The building inspector or Compliance Officer or their designee shall enforce
this chapter and shall have the authority to issue citation to any person,
firm, corporation, which violates, in any manner, this chapter. Reference
herein to the building inspector includes reference to the Compliance Officer.
(Ord. 764, 1-7-2019)
9-11-5: PENALTY:
Violations of the conditions set forth by this chapter shall be punishable by
fines as determined by the Municipal Judge of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation, each day constituting a new offense. (Ord. 764, 1-7-
2019)
CHAPTER 12
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
SECTION:
9-12-1: Enactment Clauses
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Registration Required
9-12-4: Enforcement
9-12-5: Code Conflicts
9-12-1: ENACTMENT CLAUSES:
   A.    Popular Name: This chapter may be referred to as the "Contractor
Registration Ordinance."
   B.    Findings Of Fact: All of the above premises are hereby found to be
true and correct legislative and factual findings of the City Council of the
City of Poteau, and are approved and copied into the body of this chapter as if
copied in their entirety.
   C.    Purpose: This chapter is adopted so that the City Council of the City
of Poteau may promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare
within the City of Poteau through the registration of contractors that perform
certain construction activities.
   D.    Scope Of Jurisdiction: The provisions of this chapter shall apply
within the city limits of the City of Poteau.
   E.    Effective Date: It being immediately necessary for the preservation of
the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is hereby declared to exist
by reason whereof and this chapter shall take effect and be in full force from
and after its passage. (Ord. 798, 5-3-2021)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.    General: Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the
meanings set forth in this section. Words and phrases that are not defined in
this chapter, but are defined in other ordinances of the City of Poteau, shall
be given the meaning set forth in those ordinances. Other words and phrases
shall be given their common, ordinary meaning unless the context clearly
requires otherwise. Headings and captions are for reference only, and shall not
be used in the interpretation of this chapter.
   B.    Specific:
 
                    The person appointed by the City of Poteau to inspect
BUILDING INSPECTOR: building activities to ensure compliance with applicable
                    codes, permits and ordinances. The term includes the Code
                    Enforcement Officer.
                    The person appointed by the City of Poteau to receive and
BUILDING OFFICIAL:  review registration applications and ensure compliance with
                    this chapter. The term includes the Code Enforcement
                    Officer and the City Clerk.
CITY:               The City of Poteau, Oklahoma, its agents and employees.
                    Any human individual or corporation, LLC, organization,
PERSON:             government or governmental subdivision or agency, business
                    trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any
                    other legal entity. (Ord. 798, 5-3-2021)
 
9-12-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.    Prohibition:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform or contract to
perform for compensation a construction operation within the city limits
without first having registered with the City in compliance with this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform for compensation a
construction operation within the city limits without displaying proof of
registration with the City upon request. The only acceptable proof of
registration shall be a completed application that is approved and signed by
the Building Official.
      3.   Exception: Work done by property owner in a building owned and
occupied by him as his homestead.
   B.    Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all persons providing
construction services for projects for which a permit is required under City of
Poteau ordinances and state law. Further, specifically, the following
contractors must register with the City: general contractors, plumbing
contractors, electrical contractors, septic system installation contractors,
air conditioning and heating contractors, home and general repair contractors,
roofing contractors, pool contractors and Lawn Irrigation system irrigation
contractors and journeyman for any of the above listed.
   C.    Scope Of Registration: Registration provides the City with a means of
tracking contractors operating within the City. Registration also aids the City
in its efforts to ensure the public that only qualified contractors are allowed
to do business in the City. Registration does not provide a substitute for any
permit required by law. Nor does registration substitute for any license
required by law.
   D.    Registration: In order to register in compliance with this chapter,
contractors must complete the standard Contractor Registration Application
designated by the Building Official. At a minimum, the application form shall
contain the following:
      1.   Applicant's name;
      2.   Applicant's place of business address;
      3.   Name of owner;
      4.   Type of Construction Licenses held by applicant;
      5.   License numbers from Oklahoma licensing and regulation, or other
applicable state or federal agencies; and
      6.   Certificate of Insurance currently in effect demonstrating a minimum
general liability coverage level of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
and proof that the City of Poteau is listed thereon for notification in the
event of cancellation or termination of such insurance.
   E.   Registration Fee: Registration shall not be approved by the Building
Official until the fee prescribed by the City Council of the City of Poteau has
been paid. Registration fees shall be as follows:
General Contractor            $      Annually
Septic system installation    100.00 Annually
Electrician                   100.00 Annually
Plumber                       100.00 Annually
Air conditioning and heating  100.00 Annually
Lawn irrigation installations 100.00 Annually
Roofing                       100.00 Annually
Home/general repair           100.00 Annually
Pool contractor               100.00 Annually
 
   No registration fee is required for Journeyman, but a Journeyman is required
to be registered under a licensed contractor.
(Ord. 798, 5-3-2021; amd. Ord. 832, 7-1-2024)
9-12-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Civil And Criminal Penalties: The City shall have the power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and the codes adopted by
the ordinance as may be required by governing law. Any person violating any
provision of this chapter or the codes herein adopted is subject to suit for
injunctive relief as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Any violation
of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Criminal Prosecution: Any person violating any provision of this
chapter or the codes adopted shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a provision of this
chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense. An offense under this
chapter is a misdemeanor.
   C.   Civil Remedies: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver
of the City's right to bring a civil action to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and the codes herein adopted, and to seek remedies allowed by law,
including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   Injunctive relief to prevent specific conduct that violates the
chapter or to require specific conduct that is necessary for compliance with
the chapter; and
      2.   A civil penalty up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) a day when it is
shown that the defendant was actually notified of the provisions of the chapter
and after receiving notice committed acts in violation of the chapter or failed
to take action necessary for compliance with the chapter; and
      3.   Other available relief. (Ord. 798, 5-3-2021)
9-12-5: CODE CONFLICTS:
If any provision of this chapter shall be interpreted as conflicting with or
being contrary to a provision in any of the codes adopted by this chapter, the
more stringent requirement shall govern. If, in case of a conflict, it is not
easily discernible which provision is more stringent, the requirements stated
in the text of this chapter shall govern. (Ord. 798, 5-3-2021)
TITLE 10
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING REGULATIONS OF THE
CITY. (1990 Code § 12-201)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise stipulated or required, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of the regulations in this title,
and words used in the present tense include the future; the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall mean
as well the word "structure"; the word "used" shall include "arranged",
"designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased" or
"intended to be used"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory:
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment of the city.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate
building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as herein provided.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is customarily
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
BUILDING LINE: A line established in general parallel to the front street line
on which no part of a building shall project, except as otherwise provided by
this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
building site on which it is situated. In any residential district, any
dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the building site on which
the same is located.
BULK LIMITATIONS (FLOOR AREA RATIO): The number of square feet area, as defined
herein, which is permitted for each square foot of lot area.
BULLETIN BOARD: An accessory board or sign erected by church, school, community
center, public agency or institution on its own premises for announcement
purposes.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission of the city.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan of the city.
DISTRICT: A portion of the territory of the city within which certain uniform
regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the
provisions of this title. "District" is herein defined to be the same as
"zoning districts" which are defined and mapped in chapter 3 of this title.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof arranged or designed to provide
living facilities for one family. The term "dwelling unit" shall include a
house trailer or mobile home, but shall not be deemed to include a motel, hotel
or tourist home.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons living together,
related by blood or marriage, as a single housekeeping unit using a single
facility for culinary purposes in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity
house, or sorority house.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot measured at right angles to the depth at the front
or street side of the lot.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any building or structure on any parcel of
land measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost
point on the structure or building.
HEIGHT LIMIT: The limit of height as imposed in this title for any structure or
building or permitted use within a zoning district.
LOT: Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building, or a
group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses, including such open
spaces as required by this title and other laws or ordinances, and having its
principal frontage on a street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot at the junction of, and abutting on, two (2) or more
intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which does not abut on two (2) or more intersecting
streets.
LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot located on a curve or situated so that the front must
of necessity be narrower than the rear of the lot.
LOTS OF RECORD: "Lots of record" are herein designated as a separate and
distinct parcel on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded
deed filed in the records of LeFlore County, Oklahoma.
MAXIMUM COVERAGE: The maximum amount of land that may be covered by buildings
on any lot.
MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
MOBILE HOME COURT: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for nontransient use.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A parcel of land for the exclusive use of the occupants of a
single mobile home.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home.
NONCONFORMING USE: A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
OFF STREET LOADING: The provision of spaces or berths entirely within the
property boundaries of the affected property and off of public streets reserved
exclusively for the loading or unloading of motor vehicles.
OFF STREET PARKING: The provision of space reserved exclusively for the parking
of motor vehicles entirely off of the public streets and lying wholly within
the property boundaries of the parcel of land affected.
OPEN SPACE: An area included in any side, rear, or front yard or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices, eaves or porches.
PARCEL: A "lot" as defined herein.
PERMITTED USE: The use of a building or other structure or of a tract of land
which does conform to the use regulations of this title.
RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by
three (3) or more families or three (3) or more dwelling units.
RESIDENCE, ONE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family or one dwelling unit.
RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by two (2) families or two (2) dwelling units.
SIGN: Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on, or
represented on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or
included any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device, or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction, advertisement, or other attention directing device. A
"sign" shall not include a similar structure or device located within a
building, except for illuminated signs within show windows. A "sign" includes
any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any
nation or association of nations, or any state, city, or other political,
charitable, education, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like
campaign, drive, movement, or event.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent or lease.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the ceiling next above it.
STREET: Any thoroughfare other than an alley.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated as a collector street on the major
street plan for the city.
STREET, MAJOR: A street designated as major on the major street plan for the
city.
TRAFFIC SIGNALLING DEVICE: A sign, device or mechanical contrivance used for
the control of motor vehicular and pedestrian movement.
UTILITY SERVICE INSTALLATION: Any structure or installation by a utility
company deemed to be necessary for the safe or efficient operation of that
utility.
YARD, FRONT: An open space extending the full width of the lot between the
building line and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this title.
YARD, REAR: An open space extending the full width of the lot between the
building line and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this title.
YARD REQUIREMENTS: The minimum requirements of any zoning district which
provides for front yards, side yards, rear yards or any other open space on any
lot or parcel.
YARD, SIDE: An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the building and the nearest side property line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this
title.
ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT: A document issued by the mayor or his designated
representative authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the
terms of this title and for the purposes of carrying out and enforcing the
provisions of this title. (1990 Code § 12-202)
CHAPTER 1
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-1A-1: Commission Created; Membership
10-1A-2: Terms; Filling Vacancies
10-1A-3: Quorum
10-1A-4: Meetings; Organization And Rules
10-1A-5: Power To Employ Staff
10-1A-6: Comprehensive Plan
10-1A-7: Subdivision Of Land
10-1A-8: Zoning Regulations
10-1A-9: Act As Zoning Commission
10-1A-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Commission Created; Membership: There is hereby created within and for
the city a planning commission, which shall consist of seven (7) citizens of
the city, all of whom shall be residents of the city, nominated by the mayor
and confirmed by the city council. (1990 Code § 12-101; amd. Ord. 480, 4-5-
1995)
   B.   Appointment; Compensation: The members of the commission shall be
nominated and appointed solely with reference to their fitness and without
reference to party affiliation, and shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Removal Of Members: Members may be removed by the mayor and city
council only for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malefaction in office. (1990
Code § 12-101)
   D.   Ex Officio Members: The mayor and the fire chief shall be ex officio
members of the city planning commission. (1990 Code § 12-103)
10-1A-2: TERMS; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Terms: Appointive members of the city planning commission shall hold
office for staggered terms of three (3) years, or until their successors take
office. (1990 Code § 12-102; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Vacancies: When a vacancy occurs, the appointment shall be made to fill
the unexpired term by the mayor, with confirmation by the city council. (1990
Code § 12-102)
10-1A-3: QUORUM:
Four (4) members of the city planning commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. However, no action shall be taken and be binding
upon the city planning commission unless concurred in by not less than a
majority of all members comprising the city planning commission. (1990 Code §
12-104; amd. Ord. 480, 4-5-1995)
10-1A-4: MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   Officers: The members of the city planning commission shall meet and
organize by electing a chairman, vice chairman, and secretary, whose terms
shall be one year with eligibility for reelection.
   B.   Meetings: The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month.
   C.   Bylaws, Rules And Regulations: The commission shall adopt from time to
time such bylaws, rules and regulations, and amendments thereto, as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article.
   D.   Keeping Records: The commission shall keep a record of its regulations,
transactions, findings and determinations. (1990 Code § 12-105)
10-1A-5: POWER TO EMPLOY STAFF:
   A.   Authority To Employ Staff: The planning commission shall have the power
and authority to employ planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other help
deemed necessary within the limits of the appropriation fixed by the city
council.
   B.   Compensation Of Employees: The salary and compensation of such
employees shall be fixed by the city council and shall be paid out of the city
treasury as for other officers and employees.
   C.   Expenses Of Commission: The city planning commission may incur
necessary expenses within the limits of its appropriation to carry out its
purposes and responsibility. (1990 Code § 12-106)
10-1A-6: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The planning commission shall have the power and the duty to prepare
and recommend to the city council for adoption a comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the city.
      2.   In conducting its work, the planning commission may consider and
investigate any subject matter tending to the development and betterment of the
city and may make recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the
adoption thereof to the city council.
      3.   The planning commission may make or cause to be made surveys,
studies, maps, and plans in the conduct of its activities.
      4.   Before final action is taken by the city council on the location or
design of any public building, statue, memorial, park, boulevard, street,
alley, playground, public grounds, bridge, or change in any location of any
street or alley, such question shall be submitted to the planning commission
for investigation and report.
      5.   In the preparation of the comprehensive plan, the planning
commission may from time to time prepare and recommend to the city council for
adoption a part or parts thereof, which parts shall cover one or more major
geographical divisions of the city or one or more major elements of the
comprehensive plan.
      6.   The planning commission may from time to time recommend extending,
amending, or changing any portion of the comprehensive plan. (1990 Code § 12-
107)
   B.   Purposes Of Plan:
      1.   In the preparation of such plan, the planning commission shall make
careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future
growth of the city, and with due regard to its relation to neighboring
territory.
      2.   The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the city
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general
welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development,
including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion
of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air,
the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement, and wise and efficient
expenditure of public funds. (1990 Code § 12-108)
10-1A-7: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Preparation And Recommendation: The planning commission may prepare and
recommend to the city council for adoption rules and regulations governing the
subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the city. All plans, plats,
or replats of land laid out in two (2) or more lots, plats, or parcels, or
streets, or other ways intended to be dedicated to public use within the
corporate limits of the city shall first be submitted to the planning
commission for its recommendations.
   B.   Review For Compliance: The planning commission shall, with the help of
appropriate municipal officials, check the proposed dedications or subdivision
of land to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations governing
subdivisions of land and with other elements of the comprehensive plan for the
city.
   C.   Disapproval Of Plan: The disapproval of any such plan, plat, or replat
by the city council shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown thereon.
   D.   Certifying Approval And Acceptance: No plat or replat of subdivision of
land, or dedication of street or alley or other easement, shall be entitled to
record unless it bears the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk,
certifying the approval and acceptance thereof by the city council. (1990 Code
§ 12-109)
10-1A-8: ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Uniformity Of Regulations: The planning commission may recommend the
division of the city into districts of such number, size, and area as may be
deemed best suited to carry out the zoning purpose. All such regulations shall
be uniform for each class or kind of buildings throughout each district, but
the regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts. (1990
Code § 12-110)
   B.   Compliance With Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive
plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to
provide adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
      2.   Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability
for particular uses, with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city. (1990 Code §
12-111)
10-1A-9: ACT AS ZONING COMMISSION:
The city planning commission also shall act as the zoning commission and shall
have the power to prepare and recommend to the city council zoning district
boundaries and appropriate regulations relating to the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that
may be occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density
of population, the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for
trade, industry, residences, and other purposes. (1990 Code § 12-112)
ARTICLE B. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-1B-1: Board Created; Members; Terms
10-1B-2: Meetings And Rules
10-1B-3: Appeals To Board
10-1B-4: Administrative Review; Errors
10-1B-5: Special Exceptions
10-1B-6: Variances
10-1B-7: Oil And Gas Applications
10-1B-8: Extent Of Relief
10-1B-9: Hearing; Findings And Record
10-1B-10: Authorizing Exceptions To Uses
10-1B-11: Appeal To District Court
10-1B-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS; TERMS:
   A.   Board Created; Terms; Removal: There is hereby created a board of
adjustment consisting of five (5) members, who shall be appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the city council, for terms of three (3) years. Said board
members shall be removable for cause by the city council upon written charges
and after public hearing.
   B.   Existing Board: The board of adjustment in effect on the effective date
of this section shall be constituted as the board of adjustment, with terms of
three (3) years, or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. (1990 Code § 12-120)
10-1B-2: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Chairman: The board of adjustment shall elect one of its members as
chairman.
   B.   Adoption Of Rules: The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Meetings:
      1.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and
at such other times as the board may determine.
      2.   The board of adjustment shall be subject to the open meeting laws of
the state, and all meetings, deliberations and voting of the board shall be
open to the public.
   D.   Oaths; Compel Attendance: The chairman, or, in his absence, the acting
chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by
subpoena.
   E.   Keeping Records: The board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such facts, and shall keep records of all official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and
shall be a public record. (1990 Code § 12-121)
10-1B-3: APPEALS TO BOARD:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city
affected by any administrative decision based on the city's zoning regulations.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal; Filing Fee:
      1.   Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days from the date of
the decision by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with
the city clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying
a filing fee established by the board of adjustment which shall be sufficient
to defray the cost of publishing the notice of public hearing and any other
costs associated with the hearing; the appellant shall pay such fee upon filing
the appeal.
      2.   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit
to the board of adjustment the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay,
in his opinion, would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the board of adjustment or by a court of record on application
and notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on the cause shown.
   D.   Time Of Hearing; Notice: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to it, give
fifteen (15) days' public notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, in conformance
with the requirements concerning notice and hearings, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney. (1990 Code § 12-122)
10-1B-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; ERRORS:
The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of the
zoning regulations. In reaching its decision, the board shall establish firm
guidelines for future administrative actions on like matters. (1990 Code § 12-
123)
10-1B-5: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide upon those
applications for a special exception to the zoning regulations to allow a use,
or a specifically designated element associated with a use, which is not
permitted by right in a particular district because of potential adverse
effect, but which, if controlled in the particular instance as to its
relationship to the neighborhood and to the general welfare, may be permitted
by the board of adjustment, where specifically authorized by the zoning
regulations, and in accordance with the substantive and procedural standards of
the zoning regulations subject to board approval. In reaching its decision, the
board shall not grant the application if it finds:
- That the use is not specifically permitted under the zoning regulations;
- That the location of proposed activities and improvements are not clearly
defined on the site plan filed by the applicant; or
- That the exception will not be wholly compatible with the use and permitted
development of adjacent properties.
   A.   Special Exception Application: An application for a special exception
to use or develop property, as specifically authorized in district use
regulations or in this section, may be filed by any person owning the affected
property or by any tenant upon written authorization of the owner. Such
application shall be filed with the board, and a copy thereof with the
enforcing officer.
   B.   Form Of Appeal Or Application: Such application shall show the location
and intended use of the site, the names of all the property owners and existing
land uses within three hundred feet (300'), and any other material pertinent to
the request which the board of adjustment may require.
   C.   Public Hearing: The board of adjustment shall hold one or more public
hearings thereon in accordance with the requirements for "notice and hearings",
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 44-108.
   D.   Withdrawing Of Appeal: Any appeal or application may be withdrawn upon
written notice to the enforcing officer but no appeal shall be withdrawn after
posting of hearing notice and prior to board action thereon without formal
consent of the board. (1990 Code § 12-123)
10-1B-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Board Authority; Findings: The board of adjustment shall have the power
to authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms, standards and
criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district as
authorized by the zoning regulations when such cases are shown not to be
contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of title 11 of this code will, in any individual
case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of said title 11 of
this code shall be observed, and substantial justice done. Such variances may
be granted in whole, in part, or upon reasonable conditions only upon a finding
by the board of adjustment that:
      1.   The application of title 11 of this code to this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship, not self- imposed by the owner
or developer;
      2.   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of
property involved; or
      3.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning regulations or the
comprehensive plan; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a
use of land, or buildings or structures that is prohibited by title 11 of this
code; and
      4.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Variances As To Use: Provided, however, the board shall have no power
to authorize variances as to use, except as provided by section
10-1B-7 of this article. (1990 Code § 12-123)
10-1B-7: OIL AND GAS APPLICATIONS:
The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide oil or gas
applications or appeals unless prohibited throughout the city by ordinance. The
board of adjustment shall be required to make the findings prescribed by
section
10-1B-6 of this article in order to grant a variance as to use with respect to
any such application or appeal. (1990 Code § 12-123)
10-1B-8: EXTENT OF RELIEF:
In exercising the powers authorized in this article, the board of adjustment,
in conformity with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 44-105, and
the provisions of title 11 of this code, may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought
to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom
the appeal is taken. Every decision of the board shall be based upon findings
of fact and every finding of fact shall be supported in the record of
proceedings. The enumerated conditions required to exist on any matter upon
which the board is authorized to pass under title 11 of this code shall be
construed as limitations on the power of the board to act. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed to empower the board to change the terms of title
11 of this code, or to effect changes in the zoning districts. The powers of
the board shall be so applied that the terms of title 11 of this code will be
strictly enforced.
   A.   Number Of Votes Required: The concurring vote of at least three (3)
members of the board of adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement and decision or determination being appealed from, to decide in
favor of the applicant, or to decide any matter which may properly come before
it under title 11 of this code or state law.
      1.   A member shall disqualify himself from voting whenever he has a
personal or monetary interest in the property under appeal, or will be directly
affected by the decision of the board; and
      2.   A member may disqualify himself from voting whenever any applicant,
or his agent, has sought to influence the member's vote on the appeal, other
than in the public hearing.
   B.   Approval Of Request:
      1.   In approving any request, the board may designate such conditions in
connection therewith in order to secure substantially the objectives of the
regulation or provision to which such variance is granted to provide adequately
for the maintenance of the integrity and character of the zone in which such
permit is granted.
      2.   When necessary, the board may require guarantees, in such form as it
deems proper, to ensure that conditions designated in connection therewith are
being or will be complied with. Where any condition under which a request has
been granted appears to have been violated, the board may hold a public hearing
thereon to determine whether or not the permit theretofore granted shall be
terminated.
      3.   Upon approval of an application for special exception or of a
variance appeal, the applicant shall apply for occupancy or construction
permits within sixty (60) days after the board's decision unless a greater time
is requested in the application and is authorized by the board. Any approval
may be granted one emergency extension of sixty (60) days on written request
filed with the board before expiration of the original approval. Failure of the
applicant to apply for occupancy or construction permits within the authorized
time period shall void the right to secure such permits, except upon the filing
of a new application or appeal.
   C.   Denial Of Request: No appeal or application that has been denied shall
be further considered by the board under a subsequent request obtained by
filing new plans and obtaining of a new decision from the enforcing officer
unless:
      1.   The new plans materially change the nature of the request; or
      2.   The permitted development of other nearby property in the same zone
has been substantially altered or changed by a ruling of the board so as to
support an allegation of changed conditions. (1990 Code § 12-123)
10-1B-9: HEARING, FINDINGS AND RECORD:
Exceptions or variances may be allowed by the board of adjustment only after
notice and hearing as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 44-108. The
record of the meeting at which the variance or special exception was granted
shall show that each element of a variance or special exception was established
at the public hearing on the question, otherwise the variance or special
exception shall be voidable on appeal to the district court. (1990 Code § 12-
123)
10-1B-10: AUTHORIZING EXCEPTIONS TO USES:
The city council may authorize the board of adjustment to make special
exceptions to specific uses allowed within each zoning category according to
the zoning regulations in appropriate cases and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards in harmony with its general purpose and intent and
only in accordance with general or specific provisions contained in the zoning
regulations. (1990 Code § 12-123)
10-1B-11: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Filing Notice Of Appeal:
      1.   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment or order of
the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
city to the district court by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk and
with the board of adjustment within sixty (60) days from the filing of the
decision of the board, which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal.
      2.   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the board
shall transmit forthwith to the court clerk of the county the original or
certified copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the board.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the district court from the board of
adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from. In
such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the district court upon application or notice to
the administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the terms and
provisions of title 11 of this code; and upon notice to the chairman of the
board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken, and upon due cause being
shown, the court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision brought up for review. (1990 Code § 12-124)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Findings Of Fact
10-2-2: Statement Of Purpose
10-2-3: Interpretation
10-2-4: Definitions
10-2-5: Floodplain Administrator
10-2-6: Application Of Regulations
10-2-7: Compliance With Regulations
10-2-8: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-2-9: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-2-10: Development Permit
10-2-11: Variance Procedures
10-2-12: Flood Hazard Reduction
10-2-13: Subdivision Proposals
10-2-14: Areas Of Shallow Flooding
10-2-15: Floodways
10-2-16: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-2-17: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-2-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the community are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (1990 Code § 12-501)
10-2-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public monies for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (1990 Code § 12-502)
10-2-3: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (1990 Code § 12-510)
10-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. The following
terms, as used herein, shall mean:
APPEAL: A request for a review of an interpretation by the community board of
trustees or its designated agency of any provision of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
   A.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
   B.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case
of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, D, "elevated building" also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building",
even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
breakaway walls meet the standards of section 60.3 (e)(5) of the national flood
insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
for storage purposes only is not a "habitable floor".
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent construction" does not include
land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include
the installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state Inventory of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in subsection 60.3 (b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (1990 Code § 12-504)
10-2-5: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator
to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other
appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance programs regulations)
pertaining to floodplain management. (1990 Code § 12-512)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
Oklahoma water resources board prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency
management agency.
      7.   Assure that flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
10-2-9 of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of sections
10-2-12 through
10-2-15 of this chapter.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (1990
Code § 12-513)
10-2-6: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the community. (1990 Code § 12-505)
10-2-7: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (1990 Code § 12-508)
10-2-8: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters.
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage.
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
increase flood hazards to other lands. (1990 Code § 12-503)
10-2-9: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For LeFlore County,
Oklahoma And Incorporated Areas" dated August 16, 2012, with the accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. However, until August 16, 2012, the current
effective flood maps for the city of Poteau identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for city of Poteau,
Oklahoma, LeFlore County, effective date January 20, 1982, is hereby adopted by
reference. (Ord. 726, 8-6-2012, eff. 8-6-2012)
10-2-10: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (1990 Code § 12-507)
   B.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms developed by him and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special
flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection 10-2-12B2 of this chapter;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 10-2-5B1 of this chapter.
      2.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter, and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area. (1990 Code § 12-514)
10-2-11: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority; Hearing: The appeal board as established by the city shall
hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Alleged Error: The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an
appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   C.   Appeal Decision: Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
appeal board may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Record Of Actions: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record
of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal
emergency management agency upon request.
   E.   Historic Places: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the national register of
historic places or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
   F.   Lot Size: Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, provided the relevant factors in
subsection 10-2-10B2 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot
size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Attaching Conditions: Upon consideration of the factors noted above and
the intent of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of section
10-2-2 of this chapter.
   H.   Increased Flood Levels: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   I.   Prerequisites: Prerequisites for granting variances include the
following:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   J.   New Construction; Substantial Improvements: Variances may be issued by
a community for new construction and substantial improvements and for other
development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use;
provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (1990 Code § 12-515)
10-2-12: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
or modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding. (1990 Code § 12-516)
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in sections 10-2-5B,
10-2-9 and 10-2-13C of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this paragraph, as
proposed in subsection 10-2-10B of this chapter is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop a review structural design, specifications and plans
for construction and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
subsection B2. A record of this certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; or
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with this chapter.
         c.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM be elevated on
a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
at or above the base flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code § 12-517)
10-2-13: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   Compliance Required: All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with
sections
10-2-1,
10-2-2 and
10-2-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Development Permit Requirements: All proposals for the development of
subdivisions shall meet development permit requirements of sections
10-2-10 and
10-2-11 of this chapter.
   C.   Base Flood Elevation: Base flood elevation data shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development which is greater than the
lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant
to subsection 10-2-5B and section
10-2-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Drainage: All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   E.   Public Utilities: All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage. (1990 Code § 12-518)
10-2-14: AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING:
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in this chapter
are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and therefore, the following provisions apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the
community's FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the
FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified; or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection 10-2-10B of this chapter are satisfied.
   D.   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes are required within
zones AH or AO to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(1990 Code § 12-519)
10-2-15: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in this
chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
10-2-12 through
10-2-14 of this chapter. (1990 Code § 12-520)
10-2-16: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (1990 Code §
12-511)
10-2-17: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail. (1990 Code § 12-509)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT ZONING
SECTION:
10-3-1: Airport Hazards Contrary To Public Interest
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: Airport Zones
10-3-4: Height Limitations
10-3-5: Use Restriction
10-3-6: Nonconforming Uses
10-3-7: Permits And Fees
10-3-8: Enforcement
10-3-9: Board Of Adjustment
10-3-10: Appeals To The Board Of Adjustment
10-3-11: Judicial Review Of Decisions Of Board Of Adjustment
10-3-12: Penalties And Remedies
10-3-13: Conflicting Regulations
10-3-1: AIRPORT HAZARDS CONTRARY TO PUBLIC INTEREST:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by the
airport zoning act, 3 Oklahoma Statutes, 1991, section 101 et seq. (the "act").
It is hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of
users of Robert S. Kerr Airport, and property or occupants of land in its
vicinity, and also, if of the obstruction type, in effect reduces the size of
the area available for the landing, taking off, and maneuvering of aircraft,
thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of Robert S. Kerr Airport and the
public investment therein. Accordingly, it is hereby declared:
      1.   That the creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the community served by Robert S. Kerr Airport;
      2.   That it is therefore necessary in the interest of the public health,
public safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment of
airport hazards be prevented; and
      3.   That the prevention of these airport hazards or obstructions should
be accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police
power without compensation.
   B.   It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or
establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration,
mitigation or the marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public
purposes for which political subdivisions may raise and expend public funds and
acquire land or property interests therein.
   C.   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ROBERT S. KERR
AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings as ascribed to
them, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: Robert S. Kerr Airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level. Robert S. Kerr Airport has an elevation of
four hundred fifty one feet (451') above mean sea level (MSL).
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at Robert
S. Kerr Airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of
aircraft.
AIRPORT HAZARD AREA: Any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard
might be established if not prevented as provided in this chapter.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
10-3-4 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set
forth in section
10-3-3 of this chapter.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the
city council of the city of Poteau as provided by the laws of the state of
Oklahoma.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be
used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than twelve thousand five hundred
(12,500) pounds' maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft. (Existing
pavement strength for runway 18-36 is rated at 15,000 pounds single wheel.
Future is projected to be 30,000 pounds single wheel.)
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or
area type navigation equipment for which a straight in nonprecision instrument
approach procedure has been approved or planned. (Runway 18-36 existing
nonprecision instrument approaches to runway 36 based on VOR/DME and to runways
18 and 36 based on GPS.)
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
10-3-4 of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is
set forth in section
10-3-3 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length. (Runway 18-36 at Robert S. Kerr Airport is 75 feet
wide, 4,006 feet long existing. This chapter is based on the planned length of
5,006 feet.)
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended, at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: Any city employee as may be so designated by the Poteau
city council. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-3: AIRPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to Robert S. Kerr Airport. Such zones are shown on the
Robert S. Kerr Airport zoning map, prepared by Leard Bice Reeder, Inc., Airport
Consultants, and dated September 20, 2001, which is attached to the ordinance
codified herein and hereby expressly incorporated herein and made a part
hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered
to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various
zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   Runway Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone: The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is five
hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of three thousand five hundred feet (3,500') at a horizontal distance of
ten thousand feet (10,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway. (Runway 36, planned.)
   B.   Runway Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum Not Lower Than One
Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone: The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is five hundred feet
(500') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of three
thousand five hundred feet (3,500') at a horizontal distance of ten thousand
feet (10,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of
the centerline of the runway. (Runway 18, planned.)
   C.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   D.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
five thousand feet (5,000') radii for all runways designated utility or visual
and ten thousand feet (10,000') for all others from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing
lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach
and transitional zones.
   E.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Height Limitations Established: Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree
shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height in
excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such
applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
      1.   Runway Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum Greater Than
Three-Fourths Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone: Slopes thirty four
feet (34') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten
thousand feet (10,000') along the extended runway centerline. (Runway 36,
planned.)
      2.   Runway Larger Than Utility With A Visibility Minimum Not Lower Than
One Mile Nonprecision Instrument Approach Zone: Slopes thirty four feet (34')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand
feet (10,000') along the extended runway centerline. (Runway 18, planned.)
      3.   Transitional Zones: Slope seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation which is six hundred one feet
(601') above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface,
and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
      4.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the airport elevation or at a height of six hundred one feet (601') above mean
sea level.
      5.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   B.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of
any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the land.
(Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-5: USE RESTRICTION:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed in this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure; the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the zoning administrator to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the city of Poteau. (Ord.
652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-7: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections A1, A2, and
A3 of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted upon the prior payment of the appropriate permit fees
to be established from time to time. Each application for a permit shall
indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use,
structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such
determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for
a use inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless
a variance has been approved in accordance with subsection D of this section.
      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      2.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
      3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour,
or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transition zones.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any
structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter except as set forth in subsection 10-3-4B of this
chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof or any amendments thereto or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the zoning
administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated,
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   D.   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the board of
adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the federal aviation
administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not be an airport
hazard or create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and
will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, the board
of adjustment may consider no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Robert
S. Kerr Airport board for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the
variance. If the Robert S. Kerr Airport board does not respond to the
application within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the board of adjustment may
act on its own to grant or deny said application.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the city of Poteau at its own expense to install, operate,
and maintain the necessary markings and lights. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the zoning administrator upon a form created for that purpose.
Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the zoning
administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application
for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the
zoning administrator. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-9: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   A board of adjustment has been created to have and exercise the
following powers: 1) to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning
administrator in the enforcement of this chapter; 2) to hear and decide special
exceptions to the terms of this chapter upon which such board of adjustment
under such regulations may be required to pass under this chapter; 3) to
authorize in specific cases such variances from the terms of this chapter as
will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions
a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in
unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed
and substantial justice done; and 4) exceptions and/or variances may only be
allowed by the board of adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided in
11 Oklahoma Statutes, 1991, section 44-108.
   B.   The board of adjustment shall consist of five (5) members appointed by
the Poteau city council and each shall serve for a term of three (3) years
until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first
appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) for a term of
two (2) years, and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. All appointments
thereafter shall be for a term of three (3) years. Members shall be removable
by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges, after a public
hearing.
   C.   The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter, applicable city ordinances, the
Oklahoma open meetings act and the Oklahoma open records act. Meetings of the
board of adjustment shall be public and held at the call of the chairperson and
at such other times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairperson
or, in the absence of the chairperson, the acting chairperson may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board of
adjustment shall be public. The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the zoning administrator and on due cause shown.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which properly comes before it under
the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board of adjustment
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the zoning administrator or decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to
effect any variation to this chapter. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-10: APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
zoning administrator made in the administration of this chapter, may appeal to
the board of adjustment.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within thirty (30) days from the
date of the decision as provided by the rules of the board of adjustment, by
filing with the zoning administrator and the city clerk, a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof, and by paying a filing fee at the office of the
city clerk at the time the notice is filed. The zoning administrator shall
forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the zoning administrator certifies to the board of
adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the
zoning administrator cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the board of adjustment or
notice to the zoning administrator and on due cause shown.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DECISIONS OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of
adjustment, who is of the opinion that a decision of the board of adjustment is
illegal, may appeal to the district court of LeFlore County, Oklahoma, in the
manner as provided in 3 Oklahoma Statutes, 1991, section 111. (Ord. 652, 12-12-
2005)
10-3-12: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
established in section
1-4-1 of this code and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. In addition, the political subdivisions adopting the
regulations contained in this chapter or the joint airport zoning board may
institute an action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violation of the
act, or this chapter and its regulations or of any order or ruling made in
connection with their administration or enforcement, in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
10-3-13: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 652, 12-12-2005)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING REGULATIONS OF THE
CITY. (1990 Code § 12-201)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise stipulated or required, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of the regulations in this title,
and words used in the present tense include the future; the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall mean
as well the word "structure"; the word "used" shall include "arranged",
"designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted", "rented", "leased" or
"intended to be used"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory:
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board of adjustment of the city.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed a separate
building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as herein provided.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is customarily
incidental to that of a principal building on the same lot.
BUILDING LINE: A line established in general parallel to the front street line
on which no part of a building shall project, except as otherwise provided by
this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
building site on which it is situated. In any residential district, any
dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the building site on which
the same is located.
BULK LIMITATIONS (FLOOR AREA RATIO): The number of square feet area, as defined
herein, which is permitted for each square foot of lot area.
BULLETIN BOARD: An accessory board or sign erected by church, school, community
center, public agency or institution on its own premises for announcement
purposes.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission of the city.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan of the city.
DISTRICT: A portion of the territory of the city within which certain uniform
regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the
provisions of this title. "District" is herein defined to be the same as
"zoning districts" which are defined and mapped in chapter 3 of this title.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof arranged or designed to provide
living facilities for one family. The term "dwelling unit" shall include a
house trailer or mobile home, but shall not be deemed to include a motel, hotel
or tourist home.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons living together,
related by blood or marriage, as a single housekeeping unit using a single
facility for culinary purposes in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, motel, fraternity
house, or sorority house.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings.
FRONTAGE: The width of a lot measured at right angles to the depth at the front
or street side of the lot.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement of any building or structure on any parcel of
land measured from the average elevation of the lot or parcel to the uppermost
point on the structure or building.
HEIGHT LIMIT: The limit of height as imposed in this title for any structure or
building or permitted use within a zoning district.
LOT: Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building, or a
group of buildings, and its accessory buildings and uses, including such open
spaces as required by this title and other laws or ordinances, and having its
principal frontage on a street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot at the junction of, and abutting on, two (2) or more
intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which does not abut on two (2) or more intersecting
streets.
LOT, WEDGE SHAPED: A lot located on a curve or situated so that the front must
of necessity be narrower than the rear of the lot.
LOTS OF RECORD: "Lots of record" are herein designated as a separate and
distinct parcel on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded
deed filed in the records of LeFlore County, Oklahoma.
MAXIMUM COVERAGE: The maximum amount of land that may be covered by buildings
on any lot.
MEAN LOT ELEVATION: The average elevation of a lot.
MOBILE HOME COURT: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for nontransient use.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A parcel of land for the exclusive use of the occupants of a
single mobile home.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home.
NONCONFORMING USE: A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
OFF STREET LOADING: The provision of spaces or berths entirely within the
property boundaries of the affected property and off of public streets reserved
exclusively for the loading or unloading of motor vehicles.
OFF STREET PARKING: The provision of space reserved exclusively for the parking
of motor vehicles entirely off of the public streets and lying wholly within
the property boundaries of the parcel of land affected.
OPEN SPACE: An area included in any side, rear, or front yard or any other
unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky, except for
the ordinary projection of cornices, eaves or porches.
PARCEL: A "lot" as defined herein.
PERMITTED USE: The use of a building or other structure or of a tract of land
which does conform to the use regulations of this title.
RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by
three (3) or more families or three (3) or more dwelling units.
RESIDENCE, ONE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by one family or one dwelling unit.
RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by two (2) families or two (2) dwelling units.
SIGN: Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on, or
represented on a building or other structure, upon which is displayed or
included any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device, or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction, advertisement, or other attention directing device. A
"sign" shall not include a similar structure or device located within a
building, except for illuminated signs within show windows. A "sign" includes
any billboard, but does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any
nation or association of nations, or any state, city, or other political,
charitable, education, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like
campaign, drive, movement, or event.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign designed to give forth any artificial light, or
designed to reflect light from one or more sources, natural or artificial.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign erected on the face or outside wall of a building
which projects out at any angle therefrom.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign of a temporary nature used to advertise the premises
for sale, rent or lease.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the ceiling next above it.
STREET: Any thoroughfare other than an alley.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated as a collector street on the major
street plan for the city.
STREET, MAJOR: A street designated as major on the major street plan for the
city.
TRAFFIC SIGNALLING DEVICE: A sign, device or mechanical contrivance used for
the control of motor vehicular and pedestrian movement.
UTILITY SERVICE INSTALLATION: Any structure or installation by a utility
company deemed to be necessary for the safe or efficient operation of that
utility.
YARD, FRONT: An open space extending the full width of the lot between the
building line and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this title.
YARD, REAR: An open space extending the full width of the lot between the
building line and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this title.
YARD REQUIREMENTS: The minimum requirements of any zoning district which
provides for front yards, side yards, rear yards or any other open space on any
lot or parcel.
YARD, SIDE: An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the building and the nearest side property line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in this
title.
ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT: A document issued by the mayor or his designated
representative authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the
terms of this title and for the purposes of carrying out and enforcing the
provisions of this title. (1990 Code § 12-202)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Zoning Administration Officer
11-2-2: Zoning Clearance Permit Requirements
11-2-3: Amendments; Public Hearing; Notice
11-2-4: Petition For Amendment; Fees
11-2-5: Public Protest; Council Override
11-2-6: Negative Decision Or No Decision; Appeal
11-2-7: Penalty
11-2-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATION OFFICER:
The provisions of this title shall be administered and enforced by the mayor,
or his authorized representative, who shall have the right to enter upon any
premises for the purpose of making inspection of buildings or premises
necessary to carry out his duties hereunder. (1990 Code § 12-390)
11-2-2: ZONING CLEARANCE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or other structure shall be erected,
constructed, enlarged, altered or repaired in such a manner as to prolong the
life of the building, nor shall the use of any land, building or other
structure be changed, without a zoning clearance permit issued, authorizing
such construction, alteration, repair or use changes as being in compliance
with the provision of this title.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for zoning clearance permit
shall be made to the mayor of the city by the owner or proposed occupant of the
building or land to be occupied or used, and the application shall state the
location and legal description of the property and set out in detail the
character and nature of the use to be conducted thereon. Within three (3) days
after such application is made, the mayor of the city shall grant or deny the
zoning clearance permit in accordance with the terms of this title.
   C.   Accompanying Documents: All applications for zoning clearance permits
shall be accompanied by a plat plan, drawn to scale on suitable paper, showing
the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, and the size and location of
the building to be erected, and such other information as may be necessary to
satisfy the requirements of this title.
   D.   Permit Fee: Zoning clearance permits shall not be issued until a fee of
two dollars ($2.00) shall have been paid. (1990 Code § 12-391)
11-2-3: AMENDMENTS; PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE:
The city council may, by ordinance, amend, change, or repeal this title or any
part thereof; provided, however, that before the city council shall amend,
change, or repeal this title or any part thereof, it shall request the planning
commission to submit its recommendation on such proposed amendment, change, or
repeal. Such recommendation shall be made after not less than one public
hearing thereon, which hearing may be adjourned from time to time. After
considering the commission's recommendation at public hearing, for which public
notice shall be given, the city council may approve the recommendation in whole
or in part, or return the recommendation to the commission for further
consideration:
   A.   The commission may, upon its own initiative, hold at least one public
hearing on a proposed amendment, change or repeal of this title or any part
thereof and any recommendations therefrom shall be by resolution transmitted to
the city council. The city council shall consider and act upon such
recommendation in the same manner as herein set forth for recommendations
requested by the city council; and
   B.   Notice of public hearing shall be as required by law in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city or by posting of at least one sign on such lot,
parcel or tract of land prior to the public hearing. The notice or notices as
herein referred shall state in terms certain, the nature of the proposed
amendment, change, or repeal of this title or any part thereof and the time and
place of the public hearing. (1990 Code § 12-393)
11-2-4: PETITION FOR AMENDMENT; FEES:
   A.   Filing Of Petition; Sketch Plan Required:
      1.   Petition for amendment to the zoning regulations and zoning map
shall henceforth be filed with the commission by the owner of the property
concerned, or duly authorized representative thereof, on a standard form
furnished by the commission.
      2.   All petitions for amendment proposing a change in zoning district
classification shall be accompanied by a sketch plan of the area proposed to be
rezoned, drawn to approximate scale and showing the boundaries and dimensions
of the tract, the outline of existing and proposed buildings and structures,
the size and location of off street parking lots, the type of surfacing
proposed for the lots, and the plan of structures and the drives proposed for
ingress and egress. (1990 Code § 12-394)
   B.   Fees: Upon the filing of a petition of amendment to this title, the
property owner or his duly authorized representative shall pay a filing fee as
set by the city council to the commission. All fees collected by the commission
shall be deposited with the city clerk and credited to the general fund of the
city:
      1.   The fees or expenses for all public notices herein required pursuant
to petition for amendment shall be paid by the owner of the property or his
duly authorized representative. The form for such notice shall be established
by the city council. The council or the commission, as it concerns their
respective hearings, shall designate the agency or agencies which shall effect
the public notices and the number of such notice to be used pursuant to this
title; or
      2.   If pursuant to a petition for amendment the city council votes to
rezone a lot, parcel or tract of land, the owner of such land shall pay the
cost of the ordinance publication. Such payment shall be submitted to the city
clerk, and the city clerk shall not cause the ordinance to be published prior
to such payment. (1990 Code § 12-396)
11-2-5: PUBLIC PROTEST; COUNCIL OVERRIDE:
If a protest against an amendment, change or repeal of this title or any part
thereof be presented, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting either side
of the territory included in such proposed change, or separated therefrom only
by an alley or street, such amendment shall not be passed, except by the
favorable vote of the city council. (1990 Code § 12-395)
11-2-6: NEGATIVE DECISION OR NO DECISION; APPEAL:
In the event the commission fails to set up a petition for amendment for public
hearing within twenty (20) days after its proper filing with the commission at
a regular scheduled meeting, or, if after public hearing, the commission fails
to recommend that this title be amended in accordance with such petition for
amendment, such failure shall be deemed the final determination and decision of
the commission. The final determination of the commission may be appealed to
the city council, provided a written request for a hearing before the city
council is filed with the mayor and a copy of such request is served on the
chairman of the commission within fifteen (15) days after the final
determination of the commission. (1990 Code § 12-397)
11-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this title is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (1990 Code § 12-392)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
11-3-2: Boundaries Of Districts; Map
11-3-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
11-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the community, the city council is hereby authorized to designate
and divide the city into the following districts: (1990 Code § 12-210)
R-1 One-family residence district
R-2 One-family residence district
R-3 Two-family residence district
R-4 Multiple-family residence district
C-1 Central business district
C-2 Planned shopping center district
C-3 Local and through highway business district
C-4 Local and off highway business district
I-1 Light industrial district
I-2 Heavy industrial district
A-1 Agricultural residence district
PUD Planned unit development district
 
(1990 Code §§ 12-210, 12-380; amd. Ord. 612, 8-5-2002; Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-3-2: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS; MAP:
As districts are designated, they shall be bounded and defined as shown on a
map entitled "Zoning Map Of The City Of Poteau, Oklahoma", which map is hereby
made a part of this title. (1990 Code § 12-211)
11-3-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts, as shown on the zoning map, the planning commission, upon written
application or upon its own motion, shall recommend the location of such
boundaries to the city council. (1990 Code § 12-212)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Existing Buildings And Land Use
11-4-2: Height And Density
11-4-3: Principal And Accessory Buildings
11-4-4: Street Access
11-4-5: Nonconforming Uses
11-4-6: Annexation; Zoning Classification
11-4-7: Existing Lots Of Record
11-4-8: Utilities Service Installations
11-4-9: Signs
11-4-1: EXISTING BUILDINGS AND LAND USE:
Except as hereafter provided, no building or parcel of land shall be used or
occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified. (1990 Code § 12-
220)
11-4-2: HEIGHT AND DENSITY:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered:
   A.   That will exceed the height limit, nor shall any building or land be
used or occupied hereafter in excess of the density regulations for that
district;
   B.   To accommodate a greater number of families than those specified for
that district; or
   C.   To exceed the specifications of required lot size, maximum coverage,
yard requirements, height limitations or bulk limitation for that district as
defined. (1990 Code § 12-221)
11-4-3: PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Location On One Lot: Any building hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be located on one lot; and, except as provided herein, there
shall be no more than one principal building and the customary accessory
buildings on one lot.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings may not be erected or placed
in the front and side yard areas as required in the separate districts. (1990
Code § 12-222)
11-4-4: STREET ACCESS:
No principal building shall hereafter be constructed on a lot which does not
abut a public dedicated street. (1990 Code § 12-223)
11-4-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming uses. It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of a
zoning district that all uses incompatible with permitted uses be regulated and
permitted to exist only under controls:
   A.   Nonconforming Use Continued: The lawful use of any building or land
existing at the time of the enactment of this title may be continued although
such use does not conform with the provisions of this title, except as
hereinafter specified.
   B.   Restoration Of Unsafe Structure: Any nonconforming structure or portion
thereof declared unsafe by proper authority, except as provided in subsection C
of this section, may be restored to safe condition.
   C.   Alterations: Alterations may be made to any structure or portion
thereof devoted to a nonconforming use; provided, that:
      1.   No structural alterations are made to such structure, except those
required by other law or regulation.
      2.   No nonconforming use is extended or enlarged.
      3.   A structure devoted to a nonconforming use which is declared unsafe
by proper authority, destroyed or damaged in any manner or from any cause
whatsoever, to the extent that the cost of restoration to the condition it was
before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
constructing the entire structure, shall not be restored unless such structure,
when restored, shall comply with the provisions of this title.
   D.   Substitution: The substitution of one nonconforming use for another
nonconforming use is prohibited, except when authorized by the planning
commission. Such substitution shall comply with the provisions of subsection C
of this section.
   E.   Change To Conforming Use: When a nonconforming use has been changed to
a conforming use, such conformity shall remain and such use shall not
thereafter revert to nonconforming use.
   F.   Use Vacated Or Discontinued: Any nonconforming use that has vacated or
has discontinued its nonconforming operations for a period of six (6) months
shall not thereafter be again put to a nonconforming use.
   G.   Proposed Use: A proposed use that does in fact conform to the district
in which it is proposed will not be permitted to commence on any parcel which
does contain a nonconforming use. (1990 Code § 12-224)
11-4-6: ANNEXATION; ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
All territory annexed to the corporate limits of the city, subsequent to the
effective date of this title will be within the jurisdiction of this title and
will, at such time, become part of that district specified by the city council
in accordance with the Poteau comprehensive plan, at the time of annexation
thereof. The annexed territory will retain such zoning classification until
such time the territory will be otherwise zoned in the manner prescribed by
law. (1990 Code § 12-225)
11-4-7: EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district where single-family residences are permitted, a single-family
detached dwelling may be erected on any lot which is of official record on the
effective date of this title, subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   There must be provided a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50');
   B.   There must be provided a minimum of ten feet (10') in side yards and
five feet (5') on any one side; and
   C.   The front and rear yards must comply with the requirements set forth
for the zoning district within which the lot of record is located. (1990 Code §
12-226)
11-4-8: UTILITIES SERVICE INSTALLATIONS:
Utilities service installations which are considered necessary for the safe or
efficient operation of utilities are permitted in any zoning district of this
title, the utilities to be controlled by the applicable regulations of the
city, valid franchise granted by the city, and other provisions authorized in
the state statutes. (1990 Code § 12-227)
11-4-9: SIGNS:
   A.   Signs For Political Purposes:
      1.   Definition: A "political sign" is defined as any sign, poster or
placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of furthering or
advertising the candidacy of any person who is or intends to become or may be a
candidate for the election to any public office, whether such public office be
in the local, state, federal government or tribal government, or any
subdivision thereof; and signs relating to and concerning support or opposition
to any public issue.
      2.   Public Property Location Allowed: Location is not prohibited, except
for the following:
         a.   Political signs shall not be placed or otherwise affixed to any
utility pole, or utility structure, or any tree or any traffic control device
or warning sign located in a street right of way or easement.
         b.   Political signs may be located in the street right of way or
easements as long as they are placed in the ground and not on utility poles or
structures, trees, or traffic control devices or warning signs; nor shall they
be of such placement that they would block line of sight at intersection
corners.
      3.   Duration: Political signs are allowed only thirty (30) days before
and ten (10) days after the election to which they pertain.
      4.   Deposit: A check, or cash bond in the amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00) to ensure signs are removed is required to be deposited with the city
clerk prior to placement of said signs.
         a.   Political signs that are placed in the public right of way or
public easements shall only be considered in compliance when a cash bond or
check payable to the city of Poteau has been posted in the amount of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for all political signs placed in the city limits
pertaining to the candidacy of an individual or individuals for public office
concerning support or opposition to any public issue. In order to have the full
amount of the cash bond/check released, all political signs pertaining to the
candidacy or issue, shall be removed.
         b.   In the event that all political signs are not removed from the
public right of way or public easements within ten (10) days after the election
to which they pertain, the code enforcement officer shall be permitted to
impound the sign from the public right of way or easements. If it is necessary
for the code enforcement officer to impound a political sign in the right of
way or easement, the cash bond or check shall be forfeited. The signs recovered
may be claimed by and returned to the responsible party. If not claimed within
thirty (30) days after an election, such signs shall be destroyed. The code
enforcement officer shall within thirty (30) days after the election, determine
if all political signs, pertaining to the candidacy or issue, that are located
in the public right of way or easements have been removed. If the political
signs have been timely removed within the ten (10) days provided above, the two
hundred dollars ($200.00) previously deposited shall be refunded.
      5.   Violation: Any political sign placed in violation of this section
may be removed by the code enforcement officer. Any person placing a political
sign violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code except that the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each violation.
   B.   Garage Sale Signs, Estate Sale Signs And Auction Sale Signs:
      1.   Definition: A "sale sign" is defined as any sign, poster or placard
printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of furthering or advertising
a garage sale, estate sale or auction sale.
      2.   Public Property Location Allowed: Location is not prohibited, except
for the following:
         a.   A sale sign shall not be placed or otherwise affixed to any
utility pole, or utility structure, or any tree or any traffic control device
or warning sign located in a street right of way or easement.
         b.   A sale sign may be located in the street right of way or
easements as long as they are placed in the ground and not on utility poles or
structures, trees, or traffic control devices or warning signs; nor shall they
be of such placement that they would block line of sight at intersection
corners.
      3.   Duration: A sale sign may be placed twenty four (24) hours before
the sale to which they pertain.
      4.   Removal: A sale sign must be removed no later than twenty four (24)
hours following the sale to which they pertain.
      5.   Violation: Any sale sign placed in violation of this section may be
removed by the code enforcement officer. Any person placing a sale sign
violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished in accordance with the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code except that the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each violation.
   C.   Business Services Or Sales Or Products Offered Signs:
      1.   Definition: A "business sign" is defined as any sign, poster or
placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of furthering or
advertising a business product for sale or business service for sale.
      2.   Public Property Location Not Allowed: A business sign shall only be
allowed upon private property and not in the street right of way or easement. A
business sign may only be located on private property with the permission of
the property owner.
         a.   A business sign shall not be placed or otherwise affixed to any
utility pole, or utility structure, or any tree or any traffic control device
or warning sign located in a street right of way or easement.
         b.   A business sign may not be located in the street right of way or
easements and not on utility poles or structures, trees, or traffic control
devices or warning signs; nor shall they be of such placement that they would
block line of sight at intersection corners.
      3.   Violation: Any business sign placed in violation of this section may
be removed by the code enforcement officer. Any person placing a business sign
violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished in accordance with the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code except that the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each violation.
   D.   Real Estate Signs:
      1.   Definition: A "real estate sign" is defined as any sign, poster or
placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of furthering or
advertising real estate for sale.
      2.   Public Property Location Allowed: Location is not prohibited, except
for the following:
         a.   A real estate sign shall not be placed or otherwise affixed to
any utility pole, or utility structure, or any tree or any traffic control
device or warning sign located in a street right of way or easement (except
that said sign may be chained to such a pole for security).
         b.   A real estate sign may be located in the street right of way or
easements as long as they are placed in the ground and not on utility poles or
structures, trees, or traffic control devices or warning signs (except that
said sign may be chained to such a pole for security); nor shall they be of
such placement that they would block line of sight at intersection corners.
      3.   Removal: A sale real estate sign must be removed no later than seven
(7) days following the sale of the property to which they pertain.
      4.   Violation: Any real estate sign placed in violation of this section
may be removed by the code enforcement officer. Any person placing a real
estate sign violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the penalty provisions
of section
1-4-1 of this code except that the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each violation. (Ord. 729, 6-10-2014)
CHAPTER 5
PREFAB HOMES; MOBILE HOMES; CAMPERS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Use As Residence Prohibited; Exceptions
11-5-2: Conditions For Allowing Use
11-5-1: USE AS RESIDENCE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Prefab homes, mobile homes, camp trailers, RVs, campers, travel trailers, and
motor homes used for the purpose of a residence shall be prohibited in all
zoning districts, except in compliance with section
11-6D-10 of this title regarding mobile home trailer parks, and except when a
waiver is approved by the city building inspector, mayor or city clerk in
compliance with section
11-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 594, 12-6-1999)
11-5-2: CONDITIONS FOR ALLOWING USE:
   A.   Petition For Waiver For Prefab Or Manufactured Home:
      1.   To receive a waiver for a prefab or manufactured home in a district
zoned other than a mobile home trailer park in R-4 (see section
11-6D-10 of this title), the owner of the prefab or manufactured home shall
notify (by certified mail with return receipt requested) all owners of land, as
shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the county treasurer,
within three hundred feet (300') of the tract that is the proposed site of the
prefab or manufactured home, and shall include in said mailing a copy of the
petition for waiver for prefab or manufactured home or shall be placing the
home on a tract in excess of ten (10) acres in size, and zoned in an
agriculture district, in which instance no certified mailing, etc., shall be
required.
      2.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the tract that is the proposed site for the prefab
or manufactured home must sign the petition in favor of the waiver.
      3.   Attached to the petition for such waiver shall be an affidavit from
the applicant listing the names and mailing addresses, as reflected by the
current year's tax rolls in the office of the county treasurer, of all owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the tract that is the site of the prefab or
manufactured home.
      4.   The lot shall be a minimum of six thousand (6,000) square feet. The
lot shall meet and is subject to all "lot split" approval requirements of the
city.
      5.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow camp trailers,
RVs, campers, travel trailers, motor homes, or mobile homes to be used as a
residence.
      6.   To obtain a waiver for a prefab or manufactured home, the applicant
must present, at the time of application, a copy of the title for the prefab or
manufactured home that is the subject of the application or the MSO for the
prefab or manufactured home (if it is new).
      7.   Prefab or manufactured housing shall:
         a.   Have more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of occupied space
in a typically double section of larger multisection unit, with a minimum width
of twenty feet (20'); with placement on the lot in such a manner that the front
entry doors will face on the adjacent municipal street;
         b.   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with adopted foundation requirements, and the
manufacturer's specifications;
         c.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipally approved installation standards:
            (1)   Be of material with similar appearance to the prefab or
manufactured home, or have masonry material approved by the city inspector;
            (2)   Be skirted in such a way as not to allow access to the
underside of the manufactured or prefab home for storage and/or trash
accumulation or animals or varmints but access only for repair purposes to the
manufactured or prefab home;
         d.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
         e.   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
         f.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         g.   Have roofing material of a type conforming to city of Poteau and/
or industry building codes, and of material consistent with neighborhood with a
minimum four to twelve (4:12) pitch;
         h.   Have a two hundred (200) square foot (minimum) attached, covered
and/or enclosed parking garage (or storage building of 100 square foot
[minimum]) which is compatible with other housing in the immediate area; all
parking and driveway areas shall be gravel or hard surfaced;
         i.   Have a front and rear door in conformance with applicable
industry standards and/or city of Poteau building codes and have a maximum
entrance of four (4) cement steps;
         j.   Have a minimum eave width of six inches (6"). (Ord. 670, 12-4-
2006)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6A-1: General Description
11-6A-2: Permitted Uses
11-6A-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-6A-4: Maximum Coverage
11-6A-5: Yard Requirements
11-6A-6: Height And Bulk
11-6A-7: Off Street Parking
11-6A-8: Sewer Service
11-6A-9: Signs And Billboards
11-6A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The R-1 one-family residence district is established as a district in which the
use of land is for single-family dwellings, except as noted. It is the purpose
and intent of this district to promote the development of and the continued use
of the land for single-family dwellings and to prohibit commercial and
industrial use or any other use which would substantially interfere with the
development or continuation of single-family dwellings in this district. The
intent is to further discourage any use in this district which would generate
traffic or create congestion on neighborhood streets other than the normal
traffic which serves the residents in the area. This district further
encourages only those uses which, because of character or size, would not
create additional requirements and costs for public services which are in
excess of such requirements and costs if the district were not developed solely
for single-family dwellings. (1990 Code § 12-230)
11-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Listed: The following uses are permitted in the R-1 residence
district subject to the various provisions in this article:
Agriculture uses of the garden type that are not intended for commercial
purposes.
Elementary schools, public and private where the curriculum is similar in
nature and preparation of course work to the public school.
Golf courses (not including miniature or par 3 commercial courses).
Playgrounds, public.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Temporary structures which are incidental to the construction of the main
building and will be removed when the main structure is completed.
   B.   Main Access On Major Street: The following uses are permitted when they
abut and have their main access on a major street, and provide a minimum yard
on all sides of one hundred feet (100'):
Arboretum or botanical garden.
Churches, convents and monasteries.
Fire and police stations.
Libraries, public.
Schools, both public and private, except elementary, where the curriculum is
similar in nature and preparation of course work to the public school.
Swimming pools, private where no public sale or goods are promoted. (1990 Code
§ 12-231)
11-6A-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
No dwelling or use shall be constructed or commenced in the R-1 district which
does not conform with the following minimum requirements for lot size:
 
Permitted Use          Minimum Front Feet Minimum Lot Area
Single-family dwelling 70 ft.*            8,000 sq. ft.
 
*The frontage of any wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum
lot size may be a minimum of forty feet (40'); however, the front building line
on the lot shall be a minimum of seventy (70) linear feet measured at an equal
distance parallel to and from the front lot line.
(1990 Code § 12-232)
11-6A-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage of any lot in the R-1 district shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the lot area for interior lots nor sixty percent (60%) of the
lot area for corner lots. (1990 Code § 12-233)
11-6A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements for yards shall apply to any use that is
constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the R-1 district:
 
Permitted Use          Front Yard Side Yards Rear Yard
                                  Both One
Single-family dwelling 25'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
 
(1990 Code § 12-234)
11-6A-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: No dwelling in the R-1 district shall be constructed with
a height in excess of forty feet (40') from the mean lot elevation nor will it
exceed three (3) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): Bulk limitations in the R-
1 district are governed by maximum coverage, yard requirements and height
limitations as provided in this article. (1990 Code §§ 12-235, 12-236; amd.
Ord. 824, 12-4-2023)
11-6A-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
Except as provided for elsewhere in this title, all permitted uses in the R-
1 residence district shall comply with the following minimum requirements for
off street parking:
 
Single-family dwellings                 1 space for each dwelling unit
Schools, elementary schools, junior and 1 space for each employee, plus 1 for
senior high schools, including public,  each classroom, plus 1 for each 50
private and parochial schools           square feet of assembly area with
                                        stationary or moveable seats
                                        1 space for each 5 seats provided for
                                        patron use, or 1 space for each 400
                                        square feet of gross floor area used or
                                        intended to be used for service to the
Other uses permitted in section         public as customers, patrons, or
11-6A-2 of this article                 clients, whichever requires the
                                        greatest number of parking spaces; the
                                        open space required by front yard
                                        requirement shall not be used for
                                        parking
Utilities services installations        1 space for each 400 square feet of
                                        floor space
 
(1990 Code § 12-237)
11-6A-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-1 district shall be constructed that is not provided
with an effective connection to a public sewerage system unless or until the
health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a basis for making his decision,
the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be
necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the homeowner. (1990
Code § 12-238)
11-6A-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
No signs, billboards, posters, bulletin boards or other similar matter shall be
permitted in the R-1 residence district, except as follows:
   A.   Temporary signs not to exceed the duration of six (6) months to
advertise the premises for sale, rent or lease, except original sale;
   B.   One bulletin board not exceeding fifty (50) square feet may be erected
by each church;
   C.   Official public notices may be erected on affected property; or
   D.   One unilluminated nameplate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area,
and not containing lettering other than the name of the owner or occupant or
name or address of the premises. (1990 Code § 12-239)
ARTICLE B. R-2 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6B-1: General Description
11-6B-2: Permitted Uses
11-6B-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-6B-4: Maximum Coverage
11-6B-5: Yard Requirements
11-6B-6: Height And Bulk
11-6B-7: Off Street Parking
11-6B-8: Sewer Service
11-6B-9: Signs And Billboards
11-6B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The R-2 one-family residence district is designed specifically to provide an
area for single-family housing at a higher density than permitted in the R-
1 district. The development and continued use of this land for single-family
dwellings is encouraged, and the encroachment of commercial and industrial use
or any other use which would substantially interfere with the development of or
continuation of this district as single-family dwellings is prohibited. This
article also discourages any use which would generate traffic or create
congestion on neighborhood streets other than normal traffic which serves the
residences on the street. It also encourages only those uses which, because of
character or size, would not create additional requirements and costs for
public services which are in excess of such requirements and costs if the
district were developed solely for single-family dwellings. (1990 Code § 12-
240)
11-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-2 residence district are the same as those in section
11-6A-2 of this title, for the R-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-241)
11-6B-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
No dwelling or use shall be constructed or commended in the R-2 district which
does not conform with the following minimum requirements for lot size:
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Front Feet Minimum Lot Area
Single-family      50 ft.*            6,000 sq. ft.
 
*   The frontage of any wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of
minimum lot size may be a minimum of forty feet (40'); however the front
building line on the lot shall be a minimum of fifty (50) linear feet, measured
at an equal distance parallel to and from the front lot line.
Beginning April 4, 2022, all housing developments in the R-2 District shall
have a minimum frontage of sixty (60) linear feet.
(1990 Code § 12-242; amd. Ord. 810, 4-4-2022)
11-6B-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage of any lot in the R-2 district shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the lot area for interior lots or sixty percent (60%) of the
lot area for corner lots. (1990 Code § 12-243)
11-6B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements for yards shall apply to any use that is
constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the R-2 district:
 
Permitted use          Front Yard Side Yards
                                  Both One Rear Yard
Single-family dwelling 25’      15’5’20% lot depth
 
(1990 Code § 12-244; amd. Ord. 810, 4-4-2022)
11-6B-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: No dwelling in the R-2 district shall be constructed with
a height in excess of forty feet (40') from the mean lot elevation nor will it
exceed three (3) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): Bulk limitations in the R-
2 district are governed by maximum coverage, yard requirements and height
limitations as provided in this article. (1990 Code §§ 12-245, 12-246; amd.
Ord. 824, 12-4-2023)
11-6B-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-2 residence district, the off street parking requirements are the same
as those in section
11-6A-7 of this title, for the R-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-247)
11-6B-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-2 district shall be constructed that is not provided
with an effective connection to a public sewerage system unless and until the
health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a basis for making his decision,
the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be
necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the homeowner. (1990
Code § 12-248)
11-6B-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the R-2 residence district are the same
as that in section
11-6A-9 of this title, for the R-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-249)
ARTICLE C. R-3 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6C-1: General Description
11-6C-2: Permitted Uses
11-6C-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-6C-4: Maximum Coverage
11-6C-5: Yard Requirements
11-6C-6: Height And Bulk
11-6C-7: Off Street Parking
11-6C-8: Sewer Service
11-6C-9: Signs And Billboards
11-6C-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The R-3 residence district is designed to permit a higher density of
residential use upon land. This does not provide for multi- family use in this
district. It is the intent of this article to encourage the development of and
the continued use of the land for two-family dwellings and to prohibit
commercial and industrial uses or any other use which would substantially
interfere with the development or continuation of two-family dwellings in this
district. This article also discourages any use which would generate traffic or
create congestion on neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which
serves the residents in this district. This article also encourages only those
uses which, because of character or size, would not create additional
requirements and costs for public services which are in excess of such
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for two-family
dwellings. (1990 Code § 12-250)
11-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the R-3 residence district, structures may be used, altered, enlarged or
erected for the uses listed in section
11-6A-2 of this chapter, for the R-1 district, with the addition of the
following use:
Two-family dwellings. (1990 Code § 12-251)
11-6C-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
No permitted use shall be constructed or commenced in the R-3 district which
does not conform with the minimum requirements for lot size as stated herein:
(1990 Code § 12-252)
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Front Minimum Lot Area
Single-family      80 feet1      8,000 square feet
Two-family         80 feet1      8,000 square feet
 
Note:
    1.    In the case of a wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of the
lot size, the frontage may be a minimum of 40 feet; however, the front building
line on the lot shall be a minimum of 80 linear feet, measured at an equal
distance parallel to and from the front lot line.
(1990 Code § 12-252; amd. per correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
11-6C-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage of any building on any lot in the R-3 district shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the lot area for any interior lots nor sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area for corner lots. (1990 Code § 12-253)
11-6C-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements for yards shall apply to any use that is
constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the R-3 district: (1990 Code §
12-254)
 
Permitted Use          Front Yard Side Yards
                                  Both One   Rear Yard
Single-family dwelling 25'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
Two-family dwelling    25'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
 
(1990 Code § 12-254; amd. per correspondence dated 9-12-2014)
11-6C-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: No dwelling in the R-3 district shall be constructed with
a height in excess of forty feet (40') from the mean lot elevation nor will it
exceed three (3) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): Bulk limitations in the R-
3 district are governed by maximum coverage, yard requirements and height
limitations as provided in this article. (1990 Code §§ 12-255, 12-256; amd.
Ord. 824, 12-4-2023)
11-6C-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-3 residence district, the off street parking requirements are the same
as those in section
11-6A-7 of this title, for the R-1 district, with the addition of the following
provision for off street parking in the two-family residence district:
 
Two-family dwellings 1 space for each dwelling unit
 
(1990 Code § 12-257)
11-6C-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-3 district shall be constructed that is not provided
with an effective connection to the public sewerage system unless and until the
health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a basis for making his decision,
the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be
necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the homeowner. (1990
Code § 12-258)
11-6C-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the R-3 residence district are the same
as that in section
11-6A-9 of this title, for the R-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-259)
ARTICLE D. R-4 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6D-1: General Description
11-6D-2: Permitted Uses
11-6D-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-6D-4: Maximum Coverage
11-6D-5: Yard Requirements
11-6D-6: Height And Bulk
11-6D-7: Off Street Parking
11-6D-8: Sewer Service
11-6D-9: Signs And Billboards
11-6D-10: Mobile Home Trailer Parks
11-6D-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The R-4 residence district is established as a district in which the principal
uses of the land are for multi-family dwellings and similar high density
residential development. It is the intent of this article to encourage the
development and the continued use of the land for multi-family dwellings and to
prohibit commercial and industrial uses or any other use which would
substantially interfere with the development or continuation of multi-family
dwellings in this district. It is further intended that this article shall
discourage any use which would generate traffic or create congestion on the
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic which serves the multi-
family dwellings or similar residential uses in this district. This article
further discourages any use which, because of its characteristics or size,
would create additional requirements and cost for public services which are in
excess of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for
multi-family or other similar residential uses. (1990 Code § 12-260)
11-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the R-4 residence district, structures may be used, altered, enlarged or
erected for the uses listed in section
11-6C-2 of this title, for the R-3 district, with the addition of the following
uses:
Multi-family dwelling units; or
Mobile home trailer courts when in compliance with section
11-6D-10 of this article. (1990 Code § 12-261)
11-6D-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
No dwelling structure or use shall be constructed or commenced in the R-
4 district which does not conform with the following minimum requirements for
lot size:
 
Dwelling Unit Type Minimum Front Feet Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit
Single-family      70 ft.*            8,000 sq. ft.
Two-family         70 ft.*            4,000 sq. ft.
Multi-family       70 ft.*            2,400 sq. ft.
 
*If the lot is a wedge shaped lot which meets the requirements of minimum lot
size, it may have less than the minimum requirements for frontage as long as
the front building line on the lot is a minimum of seventy (70) linear feet.
(1990 Code § 12-262)
11-6D-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage of any lot in the R-4 district shall not exceed sixty
percent (60%) of the area for interior lots nor seventy five percent (75%) of
the lot area for corner lots. (1990 Code § 12-263)
11-6D-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements for yards shall apply to any use that is
constructed or commenced on a parcel of land in the R-4 district:
 
Permitted Use          Front Yard Side Yards Rear Yard
                                  Both One
Single-family dwelling 30'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
Two-family             30'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
Multi-family           30'        15'  5'    20% lot depth
 
(1990 Code § 12-264)
11-6D-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: No dwelling structure in the R-4 district shall be
constructed with a height in excess of forty feet (40') from the mean lot
elevation nor shall it be more than three (3) stories. (1990 Code § 12-265)
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): Bulk limitations in the R-
4 district are governed by maximum coverage, yard requirements and height
limitations as provided in this article. (1990 Code § 12-266)
11-6D-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
In the R-4 residence district, the off street parking requirements are the same
as those in section
11-6C-7 of this title, for the R-3 district, with the addition of the following
provision for off street parking in the multi-family residence district:
 
Multi-family dwellings 1 1/2 spaces for each dwelling unit
 
(1990 Code § 12-267)
11-6D-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No dwelling unit in an R-4 district shall be constructed that is not provided
with an effective connection to a public sewerage system unless and until the
health officer certifies that a septic tank or any substitute disposal system
can be satisfactorily installed on the lot. As a basis for making his decision,
the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be
necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the homeowner. (1990
Code § 12-268)
11-6D-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
The control of signs and billboards in the R-4 residence district are the same
as that in section
11-6A-9 of this title, for the R-1 residence district. (1990 Code § 12-269)
11-6D-10: MOBILE HOME TRAILER PARKS:
Upon compliance with the provisions as set forth herein, the planning
commission may authorize a mobile home trailer park within the R-4 residence
district:
   A.   Site Plan Required With Application: The applicant, upon making
application for a zoning clearance permit, must submit to the planning
commission a detailed site plan locating all mobile home stands, screening or
fencing, and plans and specifications for the proposed park in a form suitable
for making the determinations required herein.
   B.   Site Specifications:
      1.   The proposed site shall be a minimum of two and one-half (21/2)
acres in size and shall contain no more than fifteen (15) mobile home stands
per acre.
      2.   The proposed site shall have a minimum frontage of two hundred feet
(200') on a street designated as a major street or collector street in the
major street plan. All access or egress by automobile will be on such streets.
      3.   The proposed site shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') in
depth.
   C.   Permanent Occupancy And Transient Stands:
      1.   It shall be the intention of the proposed plan for the mobile home
park to accommodate primarily permanent occupants with no more than ten percent
(10%) nor less than five percent (5%) of the mobile home stands devoted to
purely transient purposes.
      2.   These purely transient stands are to be located in one area of the
park so they will in no way interfere with the permanent residents.
   D.   Off Street Parking: The proposed site shall provide one off street
parking space for each mobile home stand, plus one additional off street
parking space for each four (4) mobile homes stands.
   E.   Public Utilities Connection: The proposed site shall provide a
connection for each mobile home stand to all public utilities considered
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the public. (1990 Code
§ 12-270)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7A-1: General Description; Purpose
11-7A-2: Permitted Uses
11-7A-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-7A-4: Maximum Coverage
11-7A-5: Yard Requirements
11-7A-6: Height And Bulk
11-7A-7: Off Street Parking
11-7A-8: Sewer Service
11-7A-9: Signs And Billboards
11-7A-10: Canopies And Awnings
11-7A-11: Conditional Uses
11-7A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION; PURPOSE:
   A.   Description: The C-1 central business district is established as the
district in the city which serves as the center of the surrounding regional
retail market area. The principal use of the land in this district is for
commercial and service purposes.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this district is to encourage the development
of, and the continued use of, the land for commercial and service purposes
which serve the regional area of the city. The existing development in this
district is of such a degree that it would not be feasible to require off
street parking and loading regulations in the same degree that off street
parking and loading regulations can be required for new commercial developments
in undeveloped land. The specific intent of this district further provides for
the orderly expansion of the uses that are allowed in this district; also, that
heavier commercial and industrial uses of the land which would substantially
interfere with the continuation of the existing uses, or the proposed orderly
development of this district, are prohibited. It is further intended to
minimize traffic and parking congestion in such a manner as to provide for the
safety and convenience of shoppers, visitors and other pedestrians in the
district by discouraging any use which, because of its character or size, would
create abnormal traffic congestion, fire or safety hazards in the district.
(1990 Code § 12-280)
11-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
All building or uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
Appliance and furniture stores.
Automotive repair and sales.
Bakery whose products are sold at retail on the premises.
Banks and financial institutions.
Barbershops.
Beauty shops.
Bowling alleys.
Branch bank.
Bus and rail terminal facilities.
Cafes and taverns.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Clubs, private and public.
Drugstores.
Gasoline service stations.
Grocery stores or supermarkets.
Hotels.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick up stations.
Medical offices and buildings.
Offices.
Post offices.
Public and private parking lots.
Repair and service of automobiles carried on in the same building.
Restaurants, including drive-ins.
Retail tire sales and supply.
Retail use where no fabrication or manufacture takes place on the premises.
Self-service laundry.
Shoe repair shops.
Store or shop for the conducting of a convenience type or service type retail
business where there is no manufacture or prefabrication of a product or
merchandise.
Theaters. (1990 Code § 12-281)
11-7A-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
There are no requirements for minimum lot size in the C-1 central business
district. (1990 Code § 12-282)
11-7A-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
There are no requirements of maximum coverage in the C-1 central business
district. (1990 Code § 12-283)
11-7A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
There are no yard requirements in the C-1 central business district. (1990 Code
§ 12-284)
11-7A-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: No structure in the C-1 central business district shall
be constructed with a height in excess of fifty feet (50') from the mean lot
elevation nor will it exceed four (4) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): The floor area ratio of any
principal structure or its accessory structures in the C-1 central business
district is not to exceed five (5) times that of the net lot area for buildings
of more than one story in height. (1990 Code §§ 12-285, 12-286; amd. Ord. 824,
12-4-2023)
11-7A-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
There are no requirements for off street parking in the C-1 district except as
provided in subsection 11-7A-11C of this article. (1990 Code § 12-287)
11-7A-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure in the C-1 district may be erected or allowed to continue after
the effective date of this title that does not have an effective connection to
the public sewer system, unless or until the health officer certifies that it
is not a requirement for the specific health needs of that structure and does
not jeopardize the health, welfare and safety of others. (1990 Code § 12-288)
11-7A-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
All signs in the C-1 district shall be erected upon private property and shall
not encroach upon any public street or walk, except as provided by the
applicable codes of the city, and then they shall not overhang at a height of
less than nine feet (9') and shall not have a maximum projection greater than
seventy two inches (72"):
   A.   Projecting Signs; Flat Signs: Any projecting sign in the C-1 district
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in size, nor will it exceed the height
of the building if the building exceeds thirty five feet (35'), nor will any
flat sign exceed three hundred (300) square feet in size.
   B.   Incandescent Lighting: No source of incandescent lighting used for
illuminating signs shall be directly visible from any street or highway or from
any residence, hotel or from any room used for sleeping purposes.
   C.   Lighting; Confusion With Traffic Signals: The use of red, green or
amber illumination in connection with any sign shall not be permitted within
one hundred feet (100') of an intersection. Any use of red, green or amber
illumination in connection with any sign must be so located that it in no way
creates a confusion with any traffic signal or may be interpreted by any
motorist as a traffic signaling device. (1990 Code § 12-289)
11-7A-10: CANOPIES AND AWNINGS:
Canopies and awnings may project over the walkway area, provided they are a
minimum of eight feet (8') above the city established sidewalk elevation and
are a minimum of two feet (2') from the curb or edge of the normal traveled way
or curb parking area. (1990 Code § 12-290)
11-7A-11: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Commission Approval: With the approval of the planning commission, the
following uses will be permitted in the C-1 district, subject to the
restrictions as specified herein.
   B.   Uses Listed: The uses listed herein are conditional uses for the C-
1 district and do not apply to any other district:
      1.   Broadcasting studios;
      2.   Lumber yards (retail sales only); and
      3.   Pool halls or billiard parlors.
   C.   Off Street Parking: These uses shall provide off street parking with
ingress and egress designed so as to minimize traffic congestion, at the rate
of one space for each four hundred (400) square feet of floor space used. In
addition, there shall be provided two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees
or fraction thereof of off street parking for company owned vehicles. This off
street parking restriction may be altered by the planning commission in
individual instances where the applicant can prove that his operation will in
no way interfere with the parking needs of other authorized uses in the
district, nor will his operation create a congestion of traffic on the street.
The applicant must also show that adequate controls or measures will be taken
to prevent offensive noise, light, vibration, odor or any other objectional
influence beyond his property line. (1990 Code § 12-291)
ARTICLE B. C-2 PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7B-1: General Description; Purpose
11-7B-2: Permitted Uses
11-7B-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-7B-4: Maximum Coverage
11-7B-5: Yard Requirements
11-7B-6: Height And Bulk
11-7B-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-7B-8: Sewer Service
11-7B-9: Signs And Billboards
11-7B-10: District Zoning; Application And Information Required
11-7B-11: Site Development Plan
11-7B-12: Nonconforming Use Prohibited
11-7B-13: Relationship To Street Plan
11-7B-14: Developer's Costs For Improvements
11-7B-15: Preliminary Development Plan
11-7B-16: Commencement And Completion Of Construction
11-7B-17: Dedication Restrictions
11-7B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION; PURPOSE:
   A.   Description: The C-2 planned shopping center district is established to
provide goods and services for an expanding population of the city and its
environs in locations that will fulfill the needs of the surrounding
neighborhoods.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the planned shopping center district is to
permit the establishment of retail shopping facilities for a neighborhood or
group of neighborhoods in such locations that will maximize the services to be
performed to the expanding population and yet minimize traffic congestion on
thoroughfares and public streets in its market area. It is the specific intent
of this article to provide standards of site development with the intention of
minimizing adverse effects of the shopping center upon nearby properties. (1990
Code § 12-300)
11-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
Appliance and furniture stores.
Bakery whose products are sold at retail on the premises.
Barbershops.
Beauty shops.
Branch banks.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Drugstores.
Gasoline service stations.
Grocery stores or supermarkets.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick up stations.
Offices.
Public and private parking lots.
Restaurants, including drive-ins.
Self-service laundries.
Shoe repair shops.
Store or shop for the conducting of a convenience or service type retail
business where there is no manufacture or prefabrication of a product or
merchandise. (1990 Code § 12-301)
11-7B-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
In the C-2 district, there must be provided a minimum lot size of two (2)
acres; however, in all instances except the minimum lot size, the size of the
lot is dependent upon bulk limitations to be imposed upon the land. (1990 Code
§ 12-302)
11-7B-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage of any building on any parcel of land in the C-2 district
is not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the net lot area. (1990 Code § 12-303)
11-7B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Any building or structure in the C-2 district with a location above the ground
must, at a minimum, be located fifty feet (50') from any public structure or
right of way line adjoining the district. Also, any building line in this
district must be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the property line of any
commercial (C-1, C-3) district, or any industrial (I-1 or I-2) district. Any
building in the C-2 district will, at a minimum, be seventy five feet (75')
from any residential district. Except for the required screening, the setback
area may be used for traffic circulation and parking or loading. The C-
2 district shall be permanently screened from adjoining and contiguous
districts by a solid wall, fence, or other similar enclosure with a minimum
height of four and one-half feet (41/2') and maximum height of seven feet (7').
The planning commission may waive the requirement for a screening enclosure or
screening area if equivalent screening is provided by topography or other
natural conditions. (1990 Code § 12-304)
11-7B-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: In the C-2 district, no building, sign or structure, or
portion thereof, shall exceed a height of fifty feet (50') from the mean lot
elevation nor will it exceed four (4) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): In no instance shall the total
floor space of the structures in this district exceed the relationship of one
to four (1:4); i.e., there must be provided four (4) square feet of open space
to each one square foot of floor space in the structures. (1990 Code §§ 12-305,
12-306)
11-7B-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
In the C-2 district, three (3) square feet of space, dedicated to parking and
automobile maneuvering, must be provided for each one square foot of floor
space. There must also be provided one off street loading space for each twenty
five thousand (25,000) square feet of floor space. (1990 Code § 12-307)
11-7B-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the C-2 district shall be erected or commenced which
does not have a connection to the public sewage system, considered adequate and
effective by the health officer. As a basis for making his decision, the health
officer may require such precaution tests as he deems to be necessary. Such
tests are to be made at the expense of the landowner. (1990 Code § 12-308)
11-7B-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the C-2 district, the control of signs and billboards are the same as those
in section
11-7A-9 of this title, for the C-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-309)
11-7B-10: DISTRICT ZONING; APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Market Analysis: The applicant shall submit a market analysis
acceptable to the city council and planning commission, and conducted and
signed by either a recognized independent market analyst or by the applicant
himself; provided, that the market analysis shall contain the following
elements:
      1.   The trade area of the proposed shopping center;
      2.   Trade area population, present and future;
      3.   Effective buying power in the trade area;
      4.   Net potential customer buying power for stores in the proposed
shopping center; and
      5.   Residue of buying power to be expended in existing shopping centers
or commercial areas serving the trade area.
   B.   Evaluation: The market analysis shall serve as a guide to the city
council and planning commission for the evaluation of the application in terms
of:
      1.   The need or desirability to change the comprehensive zoning plan in
the public interest.
      2.   The amount of land included in the rezoning application which can be
realistically supported in commercial use.
      3.   A finding that the proposed development will promote the general
welfare of the city.
   C.   Duty Of Developer Prior To Rezone: Prior to the submission of the
proposed ordinance rezoning an area to a C-2 planned shopping center district,
the developer shall submit all evidence deemed necessary by the council, or the
planning commission of his ability to undertake the proposed project. (1990
Code § 12-310)
11-7B-11: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Submission And Approval Of Plan: No building permit shall be issued for
any structure in a C-2 district until a final site development plan for the
entire district has been submitted and approved by the planning commission as
complying with the regulations and the requirements of this article and all
other applicable city ordinances.
   B.   Agreement To Provide Facilities: No building permit shall be issued
until the developer and the city have entered into an agreement to provide for
facilities as required in sections
11-7B-14 and
11-7B-16 of this article concerning the rededication of such vacated streets or
alleys, the replatting of property in the event the proposed shopping center is
not constructed and the proposed traffic control construction, and provided
further, the agreement may contain a provision requiring the developer to post
a good and sufficient bond running to the city with two (2) or more securities
or with a security company licensed to do business in the state as security and
in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the street and utility development
in the project, conditioned that the developers shall faithfully perform all
the provisions of the contract concerning the development of the streets and
utilities in the project and shall have the city free and harmless from all
losses and damages occasioned to any person or property as a result of the
developer performing the provisions of the contract.
   C.   Failure To Proceed; Reclassification: Such agreement shall further
provide that if the developer fails to proceed with the construction within the
time provided for in this article, that such area be reclassified in a manner
consistent with the comprehensive zoning plan and shall take no further action
to construct buildings in the development other than to complete any buildings
under actual construction. Any agreements in connection with such development
shall become null and void upon reclassification of the property.
   D.   Approval Of Changes: No changes shall be made in the final site
development plan, and during the course of construction pursuant thereto,
without first obtaining the prior approval of the planning commission.
   E.   Copies Of Plan On File: Copies of the approved final site development
plan shall be kept on file with the planning commission and any changes which
may be approved shall be noted thereon.
   F.   Filing Procedures: Procedures for filing the approval of the
construction plan for buildings, structures and other improvements shall be as
now required under the city building codes. (1990 Code § 12-311)
11-7B-12: NONCONFORMING USE PROHIBITED:
A C-2 district shall not be established on a tract of land which would contain
a nonconforming use after the passage of such amendments to the zoning
regulations unless the development plan for the tract included the elimination
of the nonconforming use. (1990 Code § 12-312)
11-7B-13: RELATIONSHIP TO STREET PLAN:
The location of a C-2 district shall have an acceptable relationship to the
major street plan. For this purpose, the petitioner shall submit to the
planning commission a traffic circulation plan showing the adequacy of the
streets providing access to the shopping center to carry the traffic generated
by the shopping center, proper methods of ingress and egress to and from the
center, necessary acceleration and deceleration lanes and necessary traffic
control devices including channelization. (1990 Code § 12-313)
11-7B-14: DEVELOPER'S COSTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Facilities: A petitioner or developer shall be required to pay
the cost of the construction or installation of the following facilities on the
streets providing access to the shopping center which may be necessary to
control traffic generated by the shopping center:
      1.   Street widening;
      2.   Ingress and egress driveways;
      3.   Acceleration and deceleration lanes; and
      4.   Traffic control devices and signs, including channelization.
   B.   Determining Extent Of Financial Responsibility:
      1.   The standard for determining the extent of the developer's financial
responsibility for traffic control for construction shall be the predictable
increment of traffic caused by the shopping center over the normal peak load
estimated for the use upon completion of the shopping center on the streets
providing access to it.
      2.   In the event that the developer is found to be responsible for any
such traffic control construction, such responsibilities shall be made the
subject of a contractual agreement between the developer and the city;
provided, that in such event, the developer shall be required to construct
proper ingress and egress driveways to the shopping center and street curbing
as required by city ordinances.
      3.   The length of time the developer may be held responsible for further
traffic control construction shall be specified in such contractual agreement
and such contract, or a separate contract, may contain provisions for other
street construction to be done by the developer as may be agreed upon between
the developer and the city. (1990 Code § 12-314)
11-7B-15: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The petitioner shall submit to the planning commission a preliminary
development plan for the shopping center showing a unified and organized
arrangement of buildings, off street parking, internal traffic circulation and
service facilities, all of which are found to be feasible and compatible with
the property on which the center is proposed and which planned development
shall minimize any adverse effect of the center and on the properties
surrounding the proposed development. The plan must contain information showing
compliance with the requirements of this section and all other applicable city
ordinances. (1990 Code § 12-315)
11-7B-16: COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Building Permit Required; Time Limit: A building permit must be secured
and construction begun in accordance with the approved final site development
plan for a C-2 district within one year from the effective date of the
ordinance establishing such district. Application may be made to the planning
commission for not more than a one year extension of the time limit for
commencement of construction. In the event that construction is not started
within the specified time limit, the planning commission shall review the
zoning of the district and the progress which has taken place, and, if deemed
necessary, initiate necessary proceedings to restore the district to its prior
classification.
   B.   Construction Time; Extension: Construction begun in accordance with the
approved final site development plan for a C-2 district must be completed
within three (3) years of the date construction is commenced. Application may
be made to the planning commission for not more than a one year extension of
the time limit for completion of construction. A plan for stage development
setting forth the time for each stage and percent to be completed at each stage
may be approved by the planning commission at the time the C-2 district zoning
is recommended. In the event that construction is not completed within the time
limit specified by the planning commission or by this article, the planning
commission shall review the zoning of the district and the development which
has taken place, and, if necessary, initiate proceedings to reclassify the
district in a manner consistent with the comprehensive plan. (1990 Code § 12-
316)
11-7B-17: DEDICATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Ownership Of Land; Dedications: A C-2 district may be established only
upon land held in single ownership or under unified control and which land
contains no dedication of public streets or alleys, except streets which may be
deemed necessary by the city for the movement of vehicular traffic which has
both its origin and destination outside the C-2 district, and except any rights
of way for public utilities purposes.
   B.   Petition For Vacation: In the event that a vacation of streets, alleys,
or plats is necessary in order to meet the requirement of this section, a
proper petition for such vacation shall be filed with the city on or before the
date of filing of a request for C-2 district zoning.
   C.   Rededication: Rededication of such streets or alleys or replatting of
property to be done in the event that the proposed shopping center is not
constructed may be provided for in a contractual agreement between the
developer and the city. (1990 Code § 12-317)
ARTICLE C. C-3 LOCAL AND THROUGH HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7C-1: General Description
11-7C-2: Permitted Uses
11-7C-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-7C-4: Maximum Coverage
11-7C-5: Yard Requirements
11-7C-6: Height And Bulk
11-7C-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-7C-8: Sewer Service
11-7C-9: Signs And Billboards
11-7C-10: Additional Provisions
11-7C-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the C-3 local and through highway business district is to
provide a common location which caters mainly to through traffic which requires
conveniently grouped rest and refreshment, auto maintenance and lodging stops.
It is the intent to group these businesses not only for convenience purposes
but because highway businesses are inclined to be brightly lighted. It is
further intended to provide an area along highways and major traffic
thoroughfares which has lots large enough to meet the needs of drive-ins and
other highway uses that require large lots and low building coverage, in order
to lessen the friction with surrounding uses and to obtain better business
advertising through grouping. (1990 Code § 12-320)
11-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
Amusement establishments, including archery ranges, shooting galleries and
other amusement facilities.
Amusement parks, including permanent carnivals and kiddy parks.
Animal hospitals, kennels, and pounds; provided, that such uses are located not
less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the boundary line of any
residential district.
Appliance and furniture sales and service.
Auto laundries.
Automotive sales and repair.
Boat showrooms.
Building material offices and sales.
Discount department stores.
Gasoline filling stations.
Golf, driving ranges, "pitch and putt", miniature golf and par 3 courses.
Greenhouses.
Implement sales and service; provided, that all yard requirements shall be
applicable irrespective of conditions stated in this title, and that no outside
sales shall be permitted that encroach upon the yards as established.
Mobile home sales.
Motels and hotels.
Outdoor theaters.
Restaurants, including drive-ins.
Retail stores providing services to and related to highway and travel. (1990
Code § 12-321)
11-7C-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
Minimum lot frontage shall be one hundred feet (100') in the C-3 district.
Other provisions of height, bulk and off street parking in this article shall
govern. (1990 Code § 12-322)
11-7C-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The provisions of height, bulk and off street parking in this article govern.
(1990 Code § 12-323)
11-7C-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be provided a minimum front yard of thirty feet (30') in the C-
3 district. There is no requirement for side yards between and among parcels
within the C-3 district; however, in the event that abutting property has
another commercial or an industrial district classification or a public
dedicated street, there shall be provided a minimum side yard of thirty feet
(30'). In the event the abutting property is residential, the minimum side yard
requirement shall be thirty feet (30') from any solid fencing which shall be
five feet (5') to seven feet (7') in height. (1990 Code § 12-324)
11-7C-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: In the C-3 district, no building, sign or structure, or
portion thereof, shall exceed a height of fifty feet (50') from the mean lot
elevation nor will it exceed four (4) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): In no instance will the total
floor space of the structures in this district exceed the relationship of one
to four (1:4); i.e., there must be provided four (4) square feet of open space
to each one square foot of floor space in the structures. (1990 Code §§ 12-325,
12-326)
11-7C-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
In the C-3 district, off street parking and loading requirements are the same
as those in section
11-7B-7 of this title, for the C-2 district. (1990 Code § 12-327)
11-7C-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the C-3 district shall be erected, commenced or allowed
to continue which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
considered adequate and effective by the health officer. As a basis for making
his decision, the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems
to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the landowner.
(1990 Code § 12-328)
11-7C-9: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the C-3 district, the control of signs and billboards are the same as that
in section
11-7A-9 of this title, for the C-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-329)
11-7C-10: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Screening: The C-3 district shall be permanently screened from
adjoining residential uses by a solid fence, at a minimum height of five feet
(5') and maximum height of seven feet (7'). The planning commission may waive
the requirement for a screening enclosure or screening area if equivalent
screening is provided by topography or other natural conditions.
   B.   Offensive Conditions: Any permitted use in the C-3 district shall not
be noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas,
vibration, noise or other similar causes beyond the property line which
contains the use. (1990 Code § 12-330)
ARTICLE D. C-4 LOCAL AND OFF HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7D-1: General Description
11-7D-2: Permitted Uses
11-7D-3: Minimum Lot Size
11-7D-4: Maximum Coverage
11-7D-5: Yard Requirements
11-7D-6: Height And Bulk
11-7D-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-7D-8: Sewer Service
11-7D-9: Signs
11-7D-10: Additional Provisions
11-7D-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the C-4 local and off highway business district is to provide a
common location which caters mainly to small, low traffic businesses or
offices. It is the intent to group these businesses not only for convenience
purposes but because these type businesses can usually be located near
residences or commercial businesses due to the quiet nature of their business/
operation with low traffic with little or no disruption or effect upon
adjoining properties. It is further intended to provide an area within a few
block(s) of the major highways/traffic areas to meet the needs of office and
other quiet, low traffic type of businesses. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-2: PERMITTED USES:
All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged shall comply with the
conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
Barbershops.
Beauty shops.
Dental office.
Dog grooming.
General office.
Home health office.
Investment office.
Law office.
Medical office.
Real estate office.
Surveyor office.
Other small business or office operations that generally have low traffic, that
maintain open hours that do not generally exceed eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and that operate in a quiet manner that will not
disturb residences that may be in close proximity to such establishments. (Ord.
719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
Minimum lot frontage (width) shall be fifty feet (50') and one hundred feet
(100') depth in the C-4 district. Other provisions of height, bulk and off
street parking in this article shall govern. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-4: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The provisions of height, bulk and off street parking in this article govern.
(Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be provided a minimum front yard of twenty five feet (25') in the
C-4 district. There is a minimum requirement for side yards of five feet (5')
between the building and property line within the C-4 district. In the event
the abutting property is residential, the minimum side yard requirement shall
be five feet (5') from any solid fencing which shall be five feet to seven feet
(5' - 7') in height. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-6: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: In the C-4 district, no building, sign or structure, or
portion thereof, shall exceed a height of forty feet (40') from the mean lot
elevation nor will it exceed three (3) stories.
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): In no instance will the total
floor space of the structures in this district exceed the relationship of one
to two (1:2); i.e., there must be provided two (2) square feet of open space to
each one square foot of floor space in the structures. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011;
amd. Ord. 824, 12-4-2023)
11-7D-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
All uses shall provide off street parking with ingress and egress designed so
as to minimize traffic congestion, at the rate of one space for each four
hundred (400) square feet of floor space used. In addition, there shall be
provided two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees or fraction thereof of off
street parking for company owned vehicles. This off street parking restriction
may be altered by the planning commission in individual instances where the
applicant can prove that his operation will in no way interfere with the
parking needs of other authorized uses in the district, nor will his operation
create a congestion of traffic on the street. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-8: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the C-4 district shall be erected, commenced or allowed
to continue which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
considered adequate and effective by the health officer. As a basis for making
his decision, the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems
to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the landowner.
(Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-9: SIGNS:
Signs in the C-4 district shall be erected upon private property and shall not
encroach upon any public street or walk, except as provided by the applicable
codes of the city, and then no sign shall exceed a height of four feet (4') and
a width of six feet (6'). No electronic signs are allowed in the C-4 district,
with the exception of those required by applicable safety codes, if any. The
lighting of any sign in the C-4 district shall be limited to small, low level,
indirect lighting that will not be bright enough to affect any adjoining
residential property. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
11-7D-10: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Screening: The C-4 district shall be permanently screened from
adjoining residential uses by a solid fence, at a minimum height of five feet
(5') and maximum height of seven feet (7'). The planning commission may waive
the requirement for a screening enclosure or screening area if equivalent
screening is provided by topography or other natural conditions.
   B.   Offensive Conditions: Any permitted use in the C-4 district shall not
be noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas,
vibration, noise or other similar causes beyond the property line which
contains the use. (Ord. 719, 10-3-2011)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8A-1: General Description
11-8A-2: District Standards
11-8A-3: Permitted Uses
11-8A-4: Minimum Lot Size
11-8A-5: Maximum Coverage
11-8A-6: Yard Requirements
11-8A-7: Height And Bulk
11-8A-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-8A-9: Sewer Service
11-8A-10: Signs And Billboards
11-8A-11: Screening
11-8A-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the I-1 light industrial district is to provide a location for
industries which do not by their nature create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land for industry in the location beneficial to industries and to
prohibit nonindustrial uses. Because of the traffic generated and other
objectional influences created in this district, it is necessary to provide a
buffer or setback area between this district and any other zoning district,
except I-2. (1990 Code § 12-340)
11-8A-2: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in the I-1 light
industrial district after the effective date of this title shall be so operated
as to comply with the following standards. No use already established on the
effective date of this title shall be so altered or modified as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the applicable standards established
hereinafter for the I-1 light industrial district:
   A.   Residential Use: No building shall be used for residential purposes,
except that a watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   Retail Sales Or Services: No retail sales or services shall be
permitted, except as incidental to, or accessory to, a permitted use.
   C.   Operation And Storage Within Building; Exceptions: All operations,
activities and storage (but not including off street parking and loading of
motor vehicles in operating condition) shall be conducted and maintained wholly
inside buildings, except that storage may be maintained outside a building if
no part of the storage is less than fifteen feet (15') from any lot line of the
tract on which the use is located, and provided any such storage area is
screened from other property (except property located in an I-2 district), with
a decorative fence or planting.
   D.   Noise: No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other
than that emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent,
shall be detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 district.
   E.   Smoke, Particulate Matter: No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas,
or odorous or particulate matter shall be emitted that is detectable beyond the
lot lines of the zoning lot on which the use is located.
   F.   Vibration: No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines of
the zoning lot on which the use is located.
   G.   Exterior Lighting Fixtures: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded
wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any
residence district or upon any public street or part thereof.
   H.   Fuel, Energy: No fuel or energy, except electricity or gas shall be
used.
   I.   Raw Materials: No raw materials shall be processed into any of the
following basic products.
      1.   Metals of any kind;
      2.   Glass;
      3.   Plastic;
      4.   Textiles;
      5.   Leather; or
      6.   Paper.
   J.   Walkways And Grounds: All premises shall be furnished with all weather
hard surfaced walks, and, except for parking areas, the grounds shall be
planted and landscaped.
   K.   Storage Or Use Of Chemicals: Storage or use of chemicals, either solid,
liquid or gas, shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products ranging
from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted;
      2.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from free to active burning is permitted, provided the materials or
products are stored, utilized, or manufactured within a completely enclosed
building that has incombustible exterior walls and is protected throughout by
an automatic fire extinguishing system; and
      3.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited.
   L.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation that produces intense glare or heat shall
be performed within a completely enclosed building, and exposed sources of
light shall be screened so as not to be detectable at the lot lines of the
zoning lot. (1990 Code § 12-341)
11-8A-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Listed: All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged
shall comply with the conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
      1.   Building materials sales.
      2.   Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and
other electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers
for the dispatching of private messages.
      3.   Compounding, processing and blending chemical products, but not
including any materials which decompose by detonation.
      4.   General and administrative offices.
      5.   Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops,
provided they do not include any of the following equipment:
         a.   Automatic screw machines;
         b.   Drop forges; or
         c.   Riveting machines;
      6.   Mail order houses.
      7.   Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such process)
products from:
         a.   Cork;
         b.   Felt;
         c.   Fur;
         d.   Glass;
         e.   Leather;
         f.   Plastic;
         g.   Wood; and
         h.   Other textiles;
but not including, as a principal operation, the processing of any raw
materials.
      8.   Manufacturing and assembling electrical and electronic products and
equipment.
      9.   Printing and binding plants.
      10.   Public utility distribution centers.
      11.   Research laboratories.
      12.   Warehouses and storage facilities.
      13.   Water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs and lift
stations.
   B.   Manufacturing Processes Or Establishments: Any other manufacturing
process or establishment which can and shall be operated in compliance with the
standards of section
11-8A-2 of this article.
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses incidental to, and on the same zoning
lot as, a principal use. (1990 Code § 12-342)
11-8A-4: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
All lots in this district shall be at least one hundred feet (100') in width.
Other provisions of height, bulk and off street parking in this article shall
govern. (1990 Code § 12-343)
11-8A-5: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The provisions of yard requirements, bulk and off street parking and loading
govern in this instance. (1990 Code § 12-344)
11-8A-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front: There shall be provided a minimum front yard of thirty feet
(30') in the I-1 district.
   B.   Side: The requirement for side yards is a total of thirty feet (30')
between and among parcels within the I-1 district, with a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') on either side.
   C.   Rear: The minimum requirements for rear yard is thirty feet (30').
   D.   Abutting Property:
      1.   In the event that abutting property is other than an industrial
district, but not residential, the distance from the property line to any
building must be thirty feet (30').
      2.   In the event the abutting property is residential, the distance from
the property line to any building must be fifty feet (50'). (1990 Code § 12-
345)
11-8A-7: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: In the I-1 district, no building, sign or structure, or
portion thereof, except smoke stacks and antennas, shall exceed a height of
fifty feet (50') nor will it exceed four (4) stories. (1990 Code § 12-346)
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): In the I-1 district, bulk
limitations are governed by height limits and yard requirements as provided in
this article. (1990 Code § 12-347)
11-8A-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Parking And Loading Space Requirements:
      1.   In the I-1 industrial district, there shall be provided a minimum of
three hundred (300) square feet of land dedicated to parking and maneuvering of
vehicles for each employee on the main or first shift.
      2.   There must also be provided adequate storage space for all company
owned vehicles on the premises.
      3.   In addition, there shall be provided off street loading spaces in
the following relationship to building square foot as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area In Square Feet Off Street Loading Spaces
0 -- 9,999                      1
10,000 -- 39,999                2
40,000 -- 100,000               3
Each additional 100,000         1 additional
 
   B.   Location And Screening:
      1.   All required loading spaces or berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served.
      2.   All motor vehicle loading berths which abut or are adjacent to a
residence district shall be completely screened therefrom by building walls, or
a uniformly painted solid fence, wall, or door, or any combination thereof, not
less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in height.
      3.   No permitted or required loading space or berth shall be located
within forty feet (40') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2)
streets or highways.
      4.   No loading space or berth shall be located in a required front or
side yard, and any loading space or berth located in a required yard shall be
open to the sky.
   C.   Size Of Loading Space: Unless otherwise specified, a required off
street loading space or berth shall be ten feet (10') in width by at least
twenty five feet (25') in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and
shall have a vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   D.   Vehicular Access: Each required off street loading space or berth shall
be designated with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street, highway
or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement. (1990
Code § 12-348)
11-8A-9: SEWER SERVICE:
No structures or use in the I-1 district shall be erected, commenced or allowed
to continue which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
considered adequate and effective by the health officer. As a basis for making
his decision, the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems
to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the landowner.
(1990 Code § 12-349)
11-8A-10: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the I-1 district, the use of signs and billboards is the same as that in
section
11-7A-9 of this article, for the C-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-350)
11-8A-11: SCREENING:
   A.   Requirement: In the event that an I-1 district abuts a residential
district, there must be provided screening by a fence or wall, a minimum height
of five feet (5') and maximum height of seven feet (7').
   B.   Waiver: The planning commission may waive the requirement for screening
if equivalent screening is provided by topography or other natural conditions.
(1990 Code § 12-351)
ARTICLE B. I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8B-1: General Description
11-8B-2: District Standards
11-8B-3: Permitted Uses
11-8B-4: Minimum Lot Size
11-8B-5: Maximum Coverage
11-8B-6: Yard Requirements
11-8B-7: Height And Bulk
11-8B-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-8B-9: Sewer Service
11-8B-10: Signs And Billboards
11-8B-11: Screening
11-8B-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district is to provide a location for
industries which may, by their nature, create nuisances, but which do not
create noxious nuisances or are a hazard to the surrounding areas. The intent
is to preserve this land especially for industry in locations with access to
major streets as designated on the major street plan as well as locations
generally accessible to railroad transportation. Because of the nuisances or
other objectional influences that may be created in this district, it is
necessary to provide a buffer or setback strip between this district and other
zoning districts, except I-1. Even though this district caters to industries
which may create a substantial nuisance, it does not permit industries that, by
the nature of their operation, emit odors, gases, dust, noise, smoke, heat,
glare, or vibration in sufficient quantities so as to constitute a hazard to
public health, safety and general welfare. (1990 Code § 12-360)
11-8B-2: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
Any use constructed, established, altered or enlarged in the I-2 heavy
industrial district after the effective date of this title shall be so operated
as to comply with the following standards. No use already established on the
effective date of this title shall be so altered or modified as to conflict
with, or further conflict with, the applicable standards established
hereinafter for the I-2 heavy industrial district:
   A.   Residential Use: No building shall be used for residential purposes,
except that a watchman may reside on the premises.
   B.   Retail Sales Or Services: No retail sales or services shall be
permitted, except as incidental to, or accessory to, a permitted use.
   C.   Operation And Storage Within Building; Exceptions: No storage,
manufacture or assembly of goods shall be conducted outside of a building
unless the nearest point of the activity is more than two hundred feet (200')
from the boundary of any use district.
   D.   Exterior Lighting Fixtures: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded
wherever necessary to avoid casting direct light upon property located in any
residence district.
   E.   Noise, Air Pollution; Offensive Conditions: All manufacturing,
fabricating, assembly, disassembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing,
and testing of goods, wares and merchandise shall be carried on in such a
manner as not to be injurious or offensive by reason of the emission or
creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or
noxious matter, odorous, glare or heat, fire or explosive hazards.
   F.   Detonation: No activities involving storage, utilization, or
manufacture of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be
permitted. (1990 Code § 12-361)
11-8B-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Listed: All buildings or uses hereafter established or enlarged
shall comply with the conditions and restrictions provided for in this article:
      1.   Any use permitted in the I-1 light industrial district.
      2.   Blacksmiths, tinsmiths and sheet metal shops.
      3.   Bottling works.
      4.   Canning or preserving factories.
      5.   Coal storage plants.
      6.   Ice cream production and distribution.
      7.   Machinery rental, sales and service.
      8.   Machine shops.
      9.   The following:
Assembling;
Cleaning;
Fabricating;
Manufacturing;
Repairing;
Storing; or
Testing,
Any of the following materials, goods or merchandise:
Apparel;
Beverages (nonalcoholic), processing and bottling;
Building materials specialties;
Clothing;
Compounding and packaging of chemicals;
Cosmetics and toiletries;
Dairy products;
Drugs and pharmaceutical products;
Electrical and acoustic products and components;
Food products (except fish, sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast);
Furniture;
Glass products;
Ice, dry and natural;
Jewelry;
Medical laboratory supplies, equipment and specialties;
Metal products and utensils;
Musical instruments;
Optical goods;
Paper products, including boxes and containers;
Radio, phonograph recorder and television sets and parts;
Textiles;
Toys and children's vehicles;
Trailers and carts; and
Wood products, including wooden boxes and containers.
      10.   Milk, bottling and distribution.
      11.   Monumental stone cutting.
      12.   Motor freight terminals.
      13.   Pattern shops.
      14.   Printing plants.
      15.   Soldering and welding shops.
      16.   Sign painting.
      17.   Railroad yards and switching areas, including lodging and sleeping
facilities for transit railroad labor.
   B.   Special Uses: Any special use which is permitted in the I-1 light
industrial district may be permitted in the I-2 heavy industrial district, and
in addition, the following special uses:
      1.   Spray painting and mixing, but only if the fire chief has certified
that there has been compliance with all fire laws.
      2.   Bulk fuel sales and storage.
      3.   Automobile wrecking and junkyards, provided they are enclosed
throughout the entire perimeter by a solid fence not less than eight feet (8')
in height.
      4.   Processing of meat and vegetable products, including the slaughter
of animals. (1990 Code § 12-362)
11-8B-4: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
There are no requirements for minimum lot size in the I-2 district; however,
any lot in this district must be at least one hundred feet (100') in width.
(1990 Code § 12-363)
11-8B-5: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
There are no requirements for maximum coverage in the I-2 district. The
provisions for yard requirements, bulk and off street parking and loading as
provided in this article shall govern in this instance. (1990 Code § 12-364)
11-8B-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Yard requirements in the I-2 district are the same as those in section
11-8A-6 of this title, for the I-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-365)
11-8B-7: HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limit: In the I-2 district, no building, sign or structure, or
portion thereof, except smoke stacks and antennas, shall exceed a height of
fifty feet (50') nor will it exceed four (4) stories. (1990 Code § 12-366)
   B.   Bulk Limitations (Floor Area Ratio): In the I-2 district, bulk
limitations are governed by height limits and yard requirements as provided in
this article. (1990 Code § 12-367)
11-8B-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
In the I-1 district, off street parking and loading requirements are the same
as those in section
11-8A-8 of this title, for the I-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-368)
11-8B-9: SEWER SERVICE:
No structure or use in the I-2 district shall be erected, commenced or allowed
to continue which does not have a connection to the public sewerage system
considered adequate and effective by the health officer. As a basis for making
his decision, the health officer may require such precaution tests as he deems
to be necessary. Such tests are to be made at the expense of the landowner.
(1990 Code § 12-369)
11-8B-10: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
In the I-2 district, the control of signs and billboards are the same as that
in section
11-7A-9 of this title, for the C-1 district. (1990 Code § 12-370)
11-8B-11: SCREENING:
   A.   Requirement: In the event that an I-2 district abuts a residential
district, there must be provided screening by a fence or wall, a minimum height
of five feet (5') and maximum height of seven feet (7').
   B.   Waiver: The planning commission may waive the requirement for screening
if equivalent screening is provided by topography or other natural conditions.
(1990 Code § 12-371)
CHAPTER 9
A-1 AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: General Description
11-9-2: Permitted Uses
11-9-3: Special Uses
11-9-4: Lot Size And Width
11-9-5: Yard Requirements
11-9-6: Building Bulk Limitations
11-9-1: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The A-1 district is established to provide for the use of land for residential
purposes in a predominantly agricultural area. It further intends to retain the
agricultural characteristics and density by requiring large lot areas and low
land coverage until the areas can be feasibly developed and tied to logical
urban growth with adequate safeguards of the public regarding health, safety
and general welfare. It also is the purpose of this article to prohibit
commercial and industrial use or any other use that would interfere with the
continuation of predominantly agricultural uses. (1990 Code § 12-380)
11-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses Listed: No building or use shall hereafter be established or
enlarged within the A-1 agricultural residence district, except a building or
use devoted to one of the following purposes:
"Agriculture", as defined in this title.
Churches and temples.
Elementary schools and high schools.
Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and putt courses or
miniature golf courses.
Parks and forest preserves, operated not for profit.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes only and not for
dwelling purposes, nor for a period that exceeds the completion of the
construction.
   B.   Accessory Buildings Or Uses: Accessory buildings or uses incidental to
the foregoing principal uses, including "home occupations" as defined in this
title, private garages, guest houses, toll houses, private greenhouses, private
dog kennels and stables, conducted not for profit, roadside stands, and
quarters for persons employed in connection with the residential use of the
premises. (1990 Code § 12-381)
11-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses in the A-1 district are:
Municipal or community recreation centers.
Police or fire stations.
Public buildings or buildings operated in the public interest by a not for
profit corporation, including art galleries, post offices, libraries or
museums.
Public or not for profit auditoriums, stadiums, arenas, armories or
sanitariums.
Public or private hospitals or sanitariums.
Public or private schools and colleges.
Public utility and service uses, including:
Electric, gas, telegraph, telephone and water transmission metering and
distribution equipment and structures;
Electric substations;
Gas regulator stations;
Microwave relay towers;
Water reservoirs or pumping stations; and
Other similar facilities. (1990 Code § 12-382)
11-9-4: LOT SIZE AND WIDTH:
   A.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size is one acre. (1990 Code § 12-
383)
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: The minimum lot width is one hundred fifty feet
(150'). (1990 Code § 12-384)
11-9-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Yard requirements are as follows:
   A.   Front: A front yard fifty feet (50') in depth.
   B.   Side: A side yard on each side of the building not less than twenty
five feet (25') in width.
   C.   Rear: A rear yard that is not less than twenty percent (20%) of the lot
depth and in no event less than fifty feet (50') in depth.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings may be located in a required
side or rear yard, but no such accessory building shall be less than fifteen
feet (15') from any side or rear lot line. (1990 Code § 12-385)
11-9-6: BUILDING BULK LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Height Limit: The maximum building height is forty (40') feet.
   B.   Bulk: No more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the lot shall be
occupied by a building or a structure with its accessory buildings. (1990 Code
§ 12-386; amd. Ord. 824, 12-4-2023)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-10-1: Special Zoning Classification
11-10-2: Intent
11-10-3: Effect Of Approval
11-10-4: Criteria For Review And Approval
11-10-5: Site Requirements
11-10-6: Other PUD Requirements
11-10-7: Application And Review Procedures
11-10-8: Development Plan Changes
11-10-9: Freestanding Commercial Building Permits
11-10-10: Designation On Official Zoning Map
11-10-11: Reversion
11-10-12: Time Limitations On Development
11-10-1: SPECIAL ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
The planned unit development (PUD) is a special zoning district category that
provides an alternate approach to conventional land use controls. The PUD may
be used for particular tracts or parcels of land that are under common
ownership and are to be developed as one unit according to a development plan
(as described below). The PUD is subject to special review procedures, and,
once approved by the city council, it becomes a special zoning classification
for the property it represents. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-2: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of the PUD district to:
      1.   Encourage unified design of housing, commercial, industrial areas,
institutional areas, public facilities, open space and recreation areas, and/or
combinations thereof, to provide for integrated developments having harmony of
design and variety of function while maintaining appropriate limitation on the
character and intensity of use, assuring compatibility with adjoining and
proximate properties.
      2.   Permit flexibility within the development to maximize the unique
physical features of the particular site and a pattern of development that
preserves trees, outstanding natural topography, and geologic features, and
prevents soil erosion.
      3.   Provide for a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical development and provide greater flexibility in the design of
buildings, yards, courts, and circulation that would not otherwise be possible
through the strict application of district regulations.
      4.   Encourage efficient use of land and facilities resulting in smaller
networks of utilities and streets and thereby lower housing costs.
      5.   Achieve a continuity of function and design within the development
and to encourage diversified living environments.
      6.   Provide a vehicle for negotiating modifications in standard
development requirements in order to both encourage innovative development and
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community.
      7.   Maximize the types of environment and living units available to the
public.
   B.   The PUD district is designed to provide for small and large scale
development incorporating a single type or variety of residential and related
nonresidential uses that are planned and developed as a unit. (Ord. 612, 8-5-
2002)
11-10-3: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Zoning Change: Approval of a zoning change to the PUD district adopts
the development plan prepared by the applicant and reviewed as part of the
application. The development plan establishes new and specific requirements for
amount and type of land use, residential densities, development regulations,
and location of specific elements of the development such as open space and
screening.
   B.   PUD Classification: The PUD classification replaces any previous zoning
district classification of the parcel.
   C.   Special Development Regulations: Where there is no provision in the PUD
development plan for special development regulations, the requirements of the
most restrictive conventional zoning district in which a proposed use or a
structure is permitted shall be applied to the development. (Ord. 612, 8-5-
2002)
11-10-4: CRITERIA FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Review Process: Because the PUD provides the opportunity for higher
densities, greater design flexibility, mixed land uses, and improved
marketability, the applicant should be prepared to provide amenities and
services that might not be required or possible in a conventional development.
Review and approval of a PUD is, therefore, a process of negotiation between
the city and the applicant to achieve the intents and purposes of these
regulations. The following factors should be specifically included as review
criteria for the evaluation of a PUD application. Other factors not listed
herein may also be considered in the review process in order to respond to
specific design and land use proposals.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   The proposed PUD shall be designed to provide for the unified
development of the area in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the land
uses and zoning districts adjacent to it.
      2.   Design of the PUD may provide for modification of conventional
zoning ordinance requirements for such elements as yard areas, densities,
setback and height on individual lots in accordance with the PUD development
plan.
      3.   Density, land use, and intensity of use requirements shall be based
on the PUD development plan and shall be reviewed carefully to ensure the
general health, welfare, and safety of the community.
      4.   Building code requirements shall not be reduced.
      5.   The maximum number of dwelling units within a PUD shall be based on
calculation of gross density. Gross density shall be established in the PUD
development plan and shall be calculated by dividing the total land area to be
developed for residential uses (exclusive of arterial streets) by the number of
dwelling units.
      6.   Location and type of housing shall be established in a general
pattern and shown on the development plan map. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-5: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Requirements: A PUD shall be permitted in any district except
A agricultural district.
   B.   Minimum Site Size Requirements: There is no required minimum size of
the site upon which a PUD shall be located.
   C.   Off Street Parking Requirements: The off street parking requirements
set forth in this code may be complied with by providing one or more permanent,
common, off street parking facilities for all uses within the development;
provided, that the facility contains the requisite number of spaces for each
use, and that the spaces provided for permanent residents shall be clearly
designated and separated from spaces for employees, customers and service. The
total spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual
requirements and the spaces required for each use, and shall be under ownership
and permanent control of the owners of the use for which the spaces are
required. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-6: OTHER PUD REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements shall be met by any proposed PUD:
   A.   Open Spaces: The maintenance and perpetual existence of required
private open spaces, easements and rights of way shall be guaranteed by
creation of entries and the imposition of real conditions, covenants, and
restrictions as required by the city council. A home association shall be
created if a trust or other satisfactory arrangements have not been made for
improving, operating, and maintaining common facilities including streets,
drives, services, and parking areas, and recreation areas.
   B.   Lots Sold For Construction Purposes: When individual lots that are not
a part of an approved and platted subdivision are to be sold for the purpose of
construction, a new subdivision plat shall be submitted, approved, and filed
with LeFlore County prior to the sale of lots and granting of any building
permit.
   C.   Public Easements, Streets: In the event that a subdivision plat is not
required for approval of the entire PUD, no building permit for any structure
within the PUD shall be granted until conveyances for any required public
easements, streets, rights of way, or other public areas shall have been
accepted by the city council and filed with LeFlore County. (Ord. 612, 8-5-
2002)
11-10-7: APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedure Outlined:
      1.   The developer of a PUD shall follow a five (5) step application and
review procedure:
         a.   Optional preapplication review.
         b.   Submission of PUD application and development plan.
         c.   Preliminary plat, where required by the subdivision regulations.
         d.   Final plat, where required by the subdivision regulations.
         e.   Application for building permit and site plan review.
      2.   Each required step shall be completed and approved before the
following step is reviewed. Where appropriate, other methods authorized in the
subdivision regulations may apply. The planning commission and city council
may, however, review more than one step at the same public hearing.
      3.   Public hearings shall be held on the PUD application and development
plan in accordance with regular procedures for zoning applications. Public
hearings on required plats shall be held in accordance with regular procedures
established in the subdivision regulations, as applicable.
   B.   Preapplication Conference:
      1.   Before submitting an application for rezoning to the PUD district,
it is recommended that the applicant confer with the zoning administrator in
order to become familiar with the PUD review process. The zoning administrator
will inform the applicant of potential problems that might arise and the
information required for filing the application.
      2.   At the preapplication conference, the applicant should provide the
following:
         a.   Boundaries of the property involved.
         b.   Existing roadways, easements, and waterways.
         c.   A general plan of development at a level of detail sufficient to
indicate the nature and scope of the project, including:
            (1)   Its magnitude in terms of approximate number, and types of
dwelling units.
            (2)   The location and extent of nonresidential elements.
            (3)   Proposed locations of major open space areas.
            (4)   Location of major circulation facilities.
         d.   Proposed treatment of the perimeter of the PUD bordering other
zoning districts.
   C.   Application: The applicant must prepare a formal application for a PUD.
The application shall also serve as a rezoning application. A preliminary plat
and proposed development plan prepared in accordance with this section should
accompany the PUD application. Applications shall also be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee, an ownership list compiled from the records of the LeFlore
County clerk's office not more than six (6) months old, and proof of ownership.
   D.   Development Plan Required: No building permits shall be issued on land
within any PUD district, except in accordance with an approved development
plan.
   E.   Development Plan:
      1.   The developer shall submit a site plan of the proposed development
in support of the application for a PUD. This application shall be considered
the same as a rezoning request and the same procedures shall be followed
concerning application, planning commission review, and public hearings. Upon
approval, the site development plan shall become a part of the official zoning
map. The plan may provide for staged development of the project and shall so
indicate on the plan.
      2.   The development plan shall be a precise, graphic, and written
representation of the applicant's intended development, including:
         a.   A survey of the property.
         b.   Location and description of all buildings and uses within the
setback lines.
         c.   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
         d.   Parking, loading, and paving plan.
         e.   Storm water drainage plan.
         f.   Landscaping plan and proposed maintenance provisions.
         g.   Gross area, lot area, and open space calculated to the nearest
tenth of an acre.
         h.   Delineation of any proposed construction phasing of the PUD.
         i.   Proposed signage.
         j.   Rights of way, easements, and utility locations.
         k.   Indication of existing natural features of the property,
including water features, floodplains, unique natural features, and vegetation.
         l.   Topography, if deemed necessary by the zoning administrator
during the preapplication conference.
         m.   Building elevations, if deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator during the preapplication conference.
         n.   Other information deemed necessary by the zoning administrator
during the preapplication conference.
   F.   Hearing And Recommendation By Planning Commission: After notice and
public hearing, the planning commission shall vote to recommend to the city
council that the PUD application be approved as submitted, or as amended, or be
approved subject to modification, or recommend to the city council that the
application be denied.
   G.   Hearing And Action By City Council: If the city council approves the
PUD zone and associated development plan, it shall be in the form of an
ordinance that shall specify all conditions and schedules necessary to ensure
that the proposed PUD is accomplished.
   H.   Protests Against Amendment: If a protest against an amendment, change,
or repeal of PUD proposal or any part thereof is filed three (3) days before
the time of the scheduled public hearing by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
or more of the areas of the lots included in such proposal, by fifty percent
(50%) or more of the area of lots immediately abutting the territory, or by the
owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the lots within a three hundred foot
(300') radius of the exterior boundary of the territory included in a proposed
change, or separated therefrom only by an alley or street less than three
hundred feet (300') wide, such amendment shall not become effective except by
the favorable vote of four-fifths (4/5) of all of the members of the city
council. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-8: DEVELOPMENT PLAN CHANGES:
   A.   Substantial Changes Prohibited: Any substantial deviation from the
plans submitted at the time of rezoning shall constitute a violation of the
rezoning, and substantial change in plans shall be resubmitted for review
following the same procedure required in the original adoption of the plan. The
zoning administrator shall interpret what constitutes a "substantial" deviation
or change in the plan.
   B.   Conditions For Allowing Amendments: The zoning administrator shall be
permitted to approve minor amendments and adjustment to the PUD development
plan, provided the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   The project boundaries are not altered.
      2.   Uses other than those specifically approved in the PUD development
plan are not added. Uses may be deleted but not to the extent that the
character of the project is substantially altered.
      3.   The allocation of land to particular uses or the relationships of
uses within the project are not substantially altered.
      4.   The density of housing is not increased more than ten percent (10%)
or decreased by more than thirty percent (30%).
      5.   The land area allocated to nonresidential uses is not increased nor
decreased by more than ten percent (10%).
      6.   Floor area, if prescribed, is not increased or decreased by more
than twenty five percent (25%).
      7.   Floor area ratios, if prescribed, are not increased.
      8.   Open space ratios, if prescribed, are not increased.
      9.   Height restrictions, yard requirements, lot coverage restrictions
and other area, height and bulk requirements prescribed in the PUD development
plan are not substantially altered.
      10.   The circulation is not substantially altered in design,
configuration, or location.
      11.   The design and location of access points to the project are not
substantially altered either in design or capacity.
   C.   Zoning Administrator Determination: The zoning administrator shall
determine if proposed amendments to an approved development plan satisfy the
above criteria. If the zoning administrator finds that these criteria are not
satisfied, an amended PUD development plan shall be submitted for full review
and approval according to the procedures set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 612,
8-5-2002)
11-10-9: FREESTANDING COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMITS:
Where a PUD contains both proposed residential development and commercial
development, no building permit for a freestanding or separate commercial
structure shall be issued until building permits have been issued for at least
one-half (1/2) of the number of dwelling units on which the authorization of
the commercial land use is based. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-10: DESIGNATION ON OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The official zoning map, after final approval of the PUD zoning district, shall
reflect the development plan by showing:
   A.   The precise area of the PUD district; and
   B.   A reference to the ordinance adopted by the city council outlining
development standards and permitted uses for the PUD. (Ord. 612, 8-5-2002)
11-10-11: REVERSION:
If the property owner determines to abandon the PUD concept and nullify the PUD
development plan, he shall make application for rezoning either to the original
status or to a new classification. The planning commission and city council
shall hear said application according to their regular procedures. (Ord. 612,
8-5-2002)
11-10-12: TIME LIMITATIONS ON DEVELOPMENT:
If development of the PUD has not been started within three (3) years of the
date of approval of the PUD development plan, the zoning administrator may
request a report from the applicant/owner to determine the status of the
project. Such additional requests may be made as necessary. (Ord. 612, 8-5-
2002)
CHAPTER 11
SPECIFIC USE PERMIT
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purposes
11-11-2: Conditions For Approval
11-11-3: Specific Use Permit List
11-11-4: Use Conditions
11-11-5: Administration
11-11-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   The City Council may, after a public hearing and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, authorize for specific parcels of land, the issuance of a
Specific Use Permit.
   B.   The uses listed in the Specific Use List located in
11-11-3, as well as other uses outlined in the Poteau Municipal Code as
requiring a Specific Use Permit, are so classified because of the size of the
land they require or the specialized nature of the use, they may more intensely
dominate the area in which they are located, or their effects on the general
public are broader in scope than other types of uses permitted in the district.
   C.   The designation of a Specific Use Permit as possible on the Specific
Use Permit List does not constitute an authorization or an assurance that such
use will be permitted. Rather, each Specific Use Permit application shall be
valued as to its probable effect on the adjacent property and community welfare
and may be approved or denied, with appropriate conditions, as the findings
indicate appropriate. (Ord. 800, 6-7-2021)
11-11-2: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Plans And Data To Be Submitted Prior To Submission Of A Request For A
Specific Use Permit: The appointed City Staff Member may require one or more
pre-application conferences with the potential applicant. In considering and
determining its recommendation to the City Council relative to any application
for a Specific Use Permit, the Planning Commission will establish the
requirements necessary for consideration of the application. The Commission
shall also set a deposit amount from the applicant sufficient for payment of
the application and permit expenses. The requirements and amount of deposit may
be adjusted by the Planning Commission as necessary during the application
process. The Planning Commission may require that the applicant furnish
preliminary site plans and data concerning the operation, location, function
and characteristics of any use of land or building proposed. For uses in which
the land use has possible environmental impact, the Commission may require
those engineering and/or environmental impact studies necessary for the City of
Poteau evaluation of the proposed use. Further, the Commission may require such
other information as necessary to evaluate the proposed specific use.
   B.   Planning Commission Requirements: The Planning Commission may, in the
interest of the public welfare and to assure compliance with the intent of this
chapter and the Poteau Comprehensive Plan, require such development standards
and operational conditions and safeguards as are indicated to be important to
the welfare and protection of adjacent property and the community as a whole
and be compatible with the natural environment and the planned capacities of
public services and facilities affected by the land use. This may include the
requirement of having the property platted and/or the requirement of the
dedication of sufficient right-of-way or easement as necessary to further the
public good. The Planning Commission may recommend the City Council impose
certain safeguards and conditions including, but not limited to: bonding,
insurance, permitted uses, lot sizes, setbacks, height limits, required
facilities, buffers, open space areas, lighting, noise levels, signage,
landscaping, parking and loading, compatibility, ingress and egress, off-street
parking and loading arrangements, location or construction of buildings and
uses, and land use intensity/density as may be required depending upon the
proposed use and its potential effect on adjacent areas or the community. If
the Planning Commission fails to review and make a recommendation within ninety
(90) days from the date the application is accepted for processing, the City
Council may take action on the application.
   C.   City Council Requirements: The City Council shall have the same
authority as the Planning Commission under subsection B, and in addition may
make additional requirements for review and conditions that in its discretion
are in the interest of the public welfare and to assure compliance with the
intent of this chapter and the Poteau Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   Detail Plans: A Detail Plan setting forth the conditions specified may
be required of the applicant and such plan when accepted shall be made a part
of the permit issued for the Specific Use.
   E.   Designation Of Zoning Map: A Specific Use Permit approved under the
provisions of this Zoning Code shall not be considered as an amendment to the
zoning ordinance; however, the Specific Use Permit shall be noted on the zoning
map as follows: SUP - (the number of the request for a Specific Use Permit).
Any of the conditions contained in a Specific Use Permit approval shall be
considered as conditions precedent to the granting of a Building Permit for the
specific use provided for.
   F.   Time Limits For Implementation: If for any reason the approved specific
use ceases operation for a period of two (2) years, then the approval of said
specific use shall be considered void and will require another public hearing
review by the Planning Commission and City Council. This shall also apply to
any approved specific use that does not begin operation within two (2) years of
approval. This voiding of approval shall not apply if orderly progress toward
completion of construction is taking place. Uses existing before the adoption
of the Specific Use Permit ordinance, including nonconforming uses and their
incidental and accessory uses, must receive a Specific Use Permit before any
expansion of the use is permitted or the municipality may act or approve any
state or local permit/certificate. (Ord. 800, 6-7-2021)
11-11-3: SPECIFIC USE PERMIT LIST:
The following uses may be allowed by Specific Use Permit as granted by the City
Council:
Adult Detention Center/Correctional Facility
Adult Novelty Shop
Antenna and Antenna Supporting Structure
Airport
Apartments
Asphalt and/or Concrete Plant
Auto Pool
Bar/Tavern
Billiard Parlor/Pool Hall
Casinos, Other Gambling Establishments
Cemetery
Cement, Portland Manufacture
Churches
College or University Hospital
Commercial Kennel
Commercial Recreation
Commercial Resort Facilities
Commercial Theme Parks
Convalescent Homes
Convict Pre-Release Center
Correctional Community Treatment Center
Crematory
Crypto Mining-Data Centers
Daycare Facilities in Residential Zonings
Detention Center Juvenile-Adult
Electric Generation Plant and/or Sub-Station
Emergency Protective Shelter
Entertainment Establishments
Extraction Operations, Mining and Mineral Processing
Food Trucks or Restaurants that are not in a commercial zone
Garbage Dump
Garbage, Offal, or Dead Animal Reduction or Dumping
Golf Course
Golf Driving Range
Gravel Operations
Gun Club
Halfway House
Heliport
Home Health Businesses in Residential Zonings
Homeless Center
Industrial Uses
Jail
Junk or Salvage Yards
Juvenile Delinquency Center
Marijuana Lounge
Mini-Storage
Mining and Quarrying, Mineral Products Processing, as defined in the Zoning
Code Use
Museum
Night Club
Nursing Homes
Prisons
Private Club
Public or Private Attractions
Public or Private Schools with a compulsory education curriculum
Recycling Center
Residential Treatment Center
Refuse Dump/Refuse Transfer Station
Rifle and Skeet Range
RV Park
Sand Operations
Sanitary Landfill
Sewage Disposal Facility
Sexually Oriented Business
Tavern
Trade Schools
Transitional Living Center
Transmitting Tower (excluding amateur radio tower)
Water Storage Facility
Water Treatment Facility
Any activity regulated by the Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority (except
personal use which is licensed for personal medical purposes).
 
(Ord. 800, 6-7-2021; amd. Ord. 808, 2-7-2022; Ord. 809, 4-4-2022; Ord. 830, 7-
1-2024; Ord. 831, 7-1-2024)
11-11-4: USE CONDITIONS:
Compliance With District And Use Unit Requirements: Specific uses permitted
shall comply with all other Zoning District and ordinance requirements where
the property is located. In addition, all uses and aspects of the property
shall comply with all requirements as required per the related use unit in the
Poteau Zoning Code, except as may be modified by City Council as provided in
section
11-11-5. (Ord. 800, 6-7-2021)
11-11-5: ADMINISTRATION:
Filing Of A Petition For Specific Use Permit:
   A.   Petition: A petition for a Specific Use Permit may be filed with the
Planning Commission by the owner(s) of the property concerned, by the duly
authorized representative thereof, by the holder of an option to purchase the
affected real estate or by the purchaser in a contract to purchase realty. Such
petition shall be on a standard form furnished by the Planning Department of
the City. All petitions for a Specific Use Permit shall be accompanied by a
site plan of the proposed area showing the location of buildings, parking, and
other pertinent data concerning the operation of the proposed use.
   B.   Fee For Petition: A one hundred-dollar ($100.00) fee shall be required
with the Specific Use Permit application, or such other fee as the City Council
may from time to time specify by resolution.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Notice: Notice of the public hearing to consider a Specific Use
Permit shall be mailed at least twenty (20) days before the public hearing held
by the Planning Commission by mailing written notice by the Secretary of the
Planning Commission to all owners of property within a three hundred foot
(300') radius of the exterior boundary of the subject property or such other
notice deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission or the City Council.
      2.   The notice shall contain:
         a.   The date, time and place of the public hearing.
         b.   The present zoning classification of the property and the nature
of the Specific Use Permit.
         c.   The legal description of the property and street address or
approximate location in the municipality.
   D.   Appeals And Confirmation By City Council: An applicant, or any
adversely affected person, may appeal a recommendation of approval or denial by
the Planning Commission to the City Council, within ten (10) days of the
Planning Commission decision, by:
      1.   Completing a Notice of Appeal form that shall be available from the
Appointed municipal staff member; and
      2.   Paying an appeal fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
or such fee as set by Council resolution. If an appeal is not timely filed, the
recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be included on a Council
consent agenda for consideration, and may be removed from the consent agenda by
Council pursuant to Council rules, whereupon the Council may either accept the
recommendations of the Planning Commission, reverse the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, modify the decision of the Planning Commission, or remand
the matter for further consideration by the Planning Commission. If an appeal
is timely filed, the City Council shall establish a date specific for its
decision and may affirm, reverse or remand the recommendation of the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 800, 6-7-2021)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose And Intent
12-1-2: Jurisdiction
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Violation; Penalty
12-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The regulations of this title are designed to promote the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community by establishing standards
for the subdivision of land within the city. (1990 Code § 12-401; amd. 2004
Code)
   B.   The provisions of this title are specifically designed to lessen the
congestion on streets, promote the orderly layout and use of land, secure
safety from fire and other dangers, provide adequate light and air, facilitate
adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds and other public requirements, and protect neighborhood areas from
the hazard of through traffic.
   C.   The regulations of this title are designed and intended to achieve the
following and should be administered so as to:
      1.   Implement the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight;
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community be borne by the whole community;
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract;
      6.   Reconcile any differences of interests; and
      7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (1990
Code § 12-401)
12-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The regulations and development standards of this title shall apply to the
following forms of land subdivision:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than ten (10)
acres in area;
   B.   The division of land, previously subdivided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels of less than ten (10) acres in area;
   C.   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved. (1990 Code § 12-402)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, unless the context requires otherwise:
ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties, otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or greenstrips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside of
which a building may not be erected.
EASEMENT: A grant of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes by the
property owner to the public, a corporation or persons.
GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive development plan for the city which has been
officially adopted to provide long range development policies for the area
subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes, among
other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision, circulation and
community facilities.
LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of, and abutting on, two (2) or
more streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
LOT SPLIT: Any division of land into two (2) or more parcels for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, and which does not
constitute a subdivision as herein defined.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of a land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for filing
of record with necessary affidavits, dedications, and acceptances, and with
complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets
and alleys, public areas, and other dimensions of land.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the character
and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
ROADWAY: That portion of any street so designated for vehicular traffic; and
where curbs are in place, that portion of the street between curbs.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A minor street as designated on the major street plan and is
a street which collects traffic from other minor streets and serves as the most
direct route to a major street or a community facility.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
having one closed end terminated by a turnaround.
STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE: A minor street auxiliary to, and located on, the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the major street plan
or expressway plan.
STREET, MINOR: Any street not specifically classified on the thoroughfare or
comprehensive plan whose primary purpose is to provide access to adjacent
properties.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation or other entity
acting as a unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
SUBDIVISION: The division or redivision of land by map into two (2) or more
lots, tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development, or the dedication or vacation of a public or private right of way
or easement. (1990 Code § 12-403)
12-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Building Permit Issuance: No building permit shall be issued for any
new structure or change, improvement, or alteration of any existing structure
on any tract of land which does not comply with all of the provisions of this
title.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of this title shall be deemed a
misdemeanor. Any person, firm or corporation which violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this title shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. (1990 Code § 12-472)
CHAPTER 2
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Street Plan; Adjoining Street System
12-2-2: Relation To Other Limited Rights Of Way
12-2-3: Reserve Strips
12-2-4: Street Alignment
12-2-5: Street Rights Of Way And Roadway Widths
12-2-6: Street And Subdivision Names
12-2-7: Street Grades
12-2-8: Street Intersections
12-2-9: Cul-De-Sacs And Dead End Streets
12-2-10: Alleys
12-2-11: Easements
12-2-12: Blocks
12-2-13: Marginal Land
12-2-1: STREET PLAN; ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM:
   A.   Conformance With Official Plan: The arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all streets in a proposed subdivision shall
conform to the official community plan and this title.
   B.   Relation To Existing And Proposed Streets: All such streets shall be
related to existing and proposed streets in the area, topographical conditions,
public convenience and safety, and existing and proposed land uses along such
streets.
   C.   Platting: All streets shall be platted in such a manner that all
resulting lots shall conform to the applicable zoning regulations.
   D.   Streets Not Shown In Official Plan: Where such streets are not shown in
the official community plan, the arrangement of these streets in the
subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
streets in the surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a neighborhood plan approved or adopted by the planning
commission.
   E.   Minor And Collector Streets: Minor and collector streets shall be laid
out so as to discourage through traffic.
   F.   Adjoining Major Thoroughfare: Where a residential subdivision abuts or
contains an existing or proposed major thoroughfare, the planning commission
shall require:
      1.   Marginal access streets;
      2.   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation along the rear property line;
      3.   Deep lots with rear service streets; or
      4.   Such other treatment as may be necessary for the adequate protection
and stabilization of residential properties and to afford separation of through
and local traffic. (1990 Code § 12-410)
12-2-2: RELATION TO OTHER LIMITED RIGHTS OF WAY:
Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way or limited
access highway, the planning commission may require a street approximately
parallel to, and on each side of, such right of way. (1990 Code § 12-411)
12-2-3: RESERVE STRIPS:
Reserve strips designed and used for the primary purpose of controlling access
to minor streets by parties or persons other than a public agency shall be
prohibited. (1990 Code § 12-412)
12-2-4: STREET ALIGNMENT:
   A.   Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   B.   Tangent: A tangent of not less than one hundred feet (100') in length
shall be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   C.   Clear Sight Distance: Minimum clear sight distance, measured along the
chord of the centerline, shall be provided on all streets as follows:
 
Major streets     400 feet
Collector streets 350 feet
Minor streets     250 feet
 
   (1990 Code § 12-413)
12-2-5: STREET RIGHTS OF WAY AND ROADWAY WIDTHS:
   A.   Conformance With Master Thoroughfare Plan: Streets rights of way and
roadway width shall conform to the master thoroughfare plan.
   B.   Paving: All streets shall be paved according to the established
standards adopted by the city.
   C.   Minimum Standards: The following minimum standards shall apply:
 
Street Type                Right Of Way Width Roadway
Freeway                    200 feet           As determined by the state
                                              highway department
Major thoroughfares        100 feet           As determined by the state
                                              highway department
Collector streets          60 feet            36 feet
Industrial roads           70 feet            38 - 40 feet
Minor residential streets  70 feet            28 - 32 feet
Multiple apartment streets 60 feet            36 feet
 
   D.   Half Streets:
      1.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of this title.
      2.   In no event shall lots facing a half minor residential street be
permitted.
      3.   Wherever an existing half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
(1990 Code § 12-414)
12-2-6: STREET AND SUBDIVISION NAMES:
   A.   Street Names, Duplication: No street name shall be used which will
duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets.
   B.   Approval Of Street Names: Street names shall be referred to the post
office for recommendation and subject to the approval of the planning
commission and the city council.
   C.   Subdivision Names, Duplication: Subdivision names shall not duplicate
existing subdivisions of record. (1990 Code § 12-415)
12-2-7: STREET GRADES:
   A.   Minimum: The minimum grade of all streets shall be four-tenths percent
(0.4%).
   B.   Maximum: Except where unusual topographic conditions justify an
exception, the maximum grade of all streets shall not be greater than the
following:
 
Street Type Grade
Major       5 percent
Secondary   7 percent
Minor       10 percent
 
   (1990 Code § 12-416)
12-2-8: STREET INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Angle: Streets shall be laid out to intersect at right angles and may
be curved, if necessary, in order to make this possible. In no event shall a
street intersect any other street at any angle of less than seventy five
degrees (75°).
   B.   Residential Streets: Street corners on local residential streets shall
have a minimum radius of twenty feet (20') at the curb line, or its equivalent.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Streets: Street corners on commercial and
industrial streets shall have a minimum radius of twenty six feet (26') at the
curb line, or its equivalent.
   D.   Major Thoroughfares: Street intersections involving major thoroughfares
shall have a minimum street corner radius of thirty feet (30') at the curb
line, or its equivalent.
   E.   Radii Shown On Plats: All street corner radii shall be shown on the
preliminary and final plats.
   F.   Clear Vision: A twenty five foot (25') area of clear vision at street
intersections in subdivisions shall be provided. This area shall be kept clear
of all structures and vegetation exceeding a height of three feet (3') above
the established city street elevation. (1990 Code § 12-417)
12-2-9: CUL-DE-SACS AND DEAD END STREETS:
   A.   Maximum Length: The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be five
hundred feet (500'), except where topography would prohibit the use of a
standard distance.
   B.   Turnaround: Each cul-de-sac shall be provided with a turnaround having
a minimum right of way radius of fifty feet (50').
   C.   Road Surface Width: The road surface within the cul-de-sac right of way
shall have a minimum width of twenty eight feet (28').
   D.   Stub Streets: In the case of temporarily dead ended streets which are
stub streets designed to provide future connection with adjoining unsubdivided
areas, the planning commission may require:
      1.   Temporary easement for a turnaround having a radius of fifty feet
(50'); or
      2.   An appropriate area for a backaround.
   E.   Storm Drainage: In all instances, proper provisions shall be made for
adequate storm drainage so that storm water does not collect at the ends of
these streets. (1990 Code § 12-418)
12-2-10: ALLEYS:
   A.   Commercial Districts: Alleys shall be provided in all commercial
districts, except where a commercial district will be developed as a self-
contained unit; then other provisions shall be made on the site for service
drives and service areas.
   B.   Residential Areas: Alleys shall not be approved for residential areas
unless a secondary means of access to certain property is necessary because of
topography or other exceptional circumstances.
   C.   Width; Paving: Alleys in commercial areas shall not be less than thirty
feet (30') in width and shall be paved; in residential areas where required,
shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   D.   Dead End Alleys: Dead end alleys are prohibited, except where natural
or other features make it impossible to continue them. Where dead end alleys
are unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround areas with a
minimum radius of forty feet (40') at the dead end. Backaround areas may be
allowed in residential subdivisions. (1990 Code § 12-419)
12-2-11: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements In Place Of Alleys: Where alleys are not provided or may not
be used for utility purposes, easements shall be provided as may be advisable
for poles, wires, conduits, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, gas lines, water
mains and lines, and other similar purposes.
   B.   Rear Yards: Rear yard easements shall be at least twelve feet (12')
wide. In the event one-half (1/2) of an easement is platted, it shall be not
less than ten feet (10') in width.
   C.   Storm Water Easement: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm
water easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the lines
of such watercourse and such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in
connection therewith.
   D.   Utility Easements: Sixty foot (60') utility easements shall be provided
at the end of cul-de-sacs along major thoroughfares. (1990 Code § 12-420)
12-2-12: BLOCKS:
   A.   Dimensions: In general, blocks should have the following dimensions:
 
      Minimum  Maximum
Length 750 feet 1,200 feet
Width  250 feet 400 feet
 
   B.   Adjustment Of Dimensions: The foregoing dimensions shall be subject to
adjustment upon recommendation by the planning commission where topography, the
character of the proposed development, or other similar conditions justify
blocks of greater or lesser length or width.
   C.   Measurement: Block lengths and widths shall be measured from the street
right of way line.
   D.   Crosswalks: Wherever blocks are longer than one thousand feet (1,000'),
crosswalks may be required at the approximate center of the block. (1990 Code §
12-421)
12-2-13: MARGINAL LAND:
When a plat is filed on land that is subject to flooding or has been flooded
within the last twenty (20) years and corrective measures have not been taken
to prevent reflooding, or when the land has soil conditions unsuitable for
building purposes, the plat shall not be acceptable, except where the property
is dedicated to the city, subject to its acceptance, for a watercourse, water
drainage basin, a park or a conservancy district or for any other purpose of
protecting the health, safety and general welfare of the public. (1990 Code §
12-422)
CHAPTER 3
PLAT APPROVAL AND REVIEW
SECTION:
12-3-1: Submission Of Preliminary Plat
12-3-2: Preliminary Plat Data
12-3-3: Other Data
12-3-4: Final Plat
12-3-5: Review Of Plat
12-3-6: Recording Of Plat
12-3-1: SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Copies Of Plat Distributed: The subdivider shall submit at least ten
(10) copies of the preliminary plat to the city clerk who shall distribute the
plats as follows:
      1.   One copy to the school board;
      2.   One copy to the local gas company;
      3.   One copy to the local electric company;
      4.   One copy to the local telephone company;
      5.   One copy to the urban planning division, Oklahoma state highway
department;
      6.   One copy to the county engineer; and
      7.   Four (4) copies to the planning commission.
   B.   Review And Consultation: In the review of all preliminary plats, the
planning commission shall consult with all departments of the city and holders
of public utility franchises in or from the city. After review of the
preliminary plat, the planning commission shall, within sixty (60) days of its
submission, approve, conditionally approve, or reject the plat. The subdivider
shall be notified in writing of this action, together with any conditions of
approval or the reasons for rejection.
   C.   Preliminary Approval No Guarantee Of Final Plat Approval: Approval of
the preliminary plat shall not in all cases entitle the subdivider to approval
of the final plat. Upon preliminary approval, if any conditions arise which
would cause the preliminary plat to become unsatisfactory due to health,
safety, or welfare of the community, the planning commission shall recommend
that the final plat be rejected. (1990 Code § 12-430)
12-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT DATA:
   A.   Drawings: The preliminary plat shall be drawn on suitable tracing paper
or cloth with black waterproof ink or pencil; however, legible reproductions of
the drawings may be submitted.
   B.   Required Information: The plat shall be drawn to a scale of one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Date, scale, and north point.
      2.   The proposed subdivision name and all intended street names.
      3.   The name of the subdivider or the engineer or surveyor preparing the
plat.
      4.   Legal description showing location of plat.
      5.   Topographic survey map of the area being subdivided, showing
contours at two foot (2') intervals.
      6.   A key map showing the location of the plat in the section, township
and range in which the plat is located.
      7.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land.
      8.   Location, widths, and names of all existing platted or dedicated
streets, alleys, or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility
rights of way, parks, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings,
bridges, and other pertinent data as required by the planning commission.
      9.   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of
the survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall refer to the established U.S. coast and geodetic
survey datum.
      10.   When a subdivision borders a lake or stream, the distance and
bearings of a meander line shall be established not less than twenty feet (20')
back from the ordinary high water mark of the lake or from the bank of the
stream.
      11.   Layout and width of all new streets and rights of way, including
alleys, highways, and easements, whether private or public, and for public and
private utilities.
      12.   The exact length of the exterior boundaries of the land to be
subdivided.
      13.   Approximate dimensions of all lots.
      14.   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents.
      15.   Approximate location and area of property to be dedicated for
public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all property owners in
the subdivision, with any conditions of such dedication or reservation. (1990
Code § 12-431)
12-3-3: OTHER DATA:
   A.   Deed Restrictions: Where deed restrictions are to be recorded on the
plat, a brief description of the proposed restrictions should accompany the
preliminary plat.
   B.   Description Of Improvements: A description of the improvements such as
grading, paving, tree planting, walks, and installation of utilities which the
subdivider proposes to make, and the time when they are proposed to be made,
shall accompany the preliminary plat. (1990 Code § 12-432)
12-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Format: The final plat shall be a print or series of prints on a stable
base tracing medium of Mylar, Cronar, and other suitable durable material or
linen tracing cloth twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). When
more than one sheet is used in connection with the plat, each additional sheet
shall be numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation indicating the
total number of sheets.
   B.   Submission Of Copies: The developer shall submit sufficient copies for
examination, but in no case shall it be less than the following:
      1.   Five (5) paper copies and one copy on stable base tracing medium of
Mylar or comparable Cronaflex of the proposed subdivision, drawn to a scale of
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall be prepared by a
registered civil engineer or surveyor; and
      2.   Five (5) copies of any restrictive covenants.
   C.   Final Approval; Filing With County: The final plat of the proposed
subdivision shall be submitted to the planning commission and city council for
final approval within one year of the date on which the preliminary plat was
approved. If not submitted for final approval within such time, the preliminary
plat approval shall be considered as null and void unless the planning
commission agrees to an extension of time. The final plat shall be filed in the
office of the county recorder within six (6) months after approval by the city
council, or if not filed within such time, the approval shall be considered as
null and void.
   D.   Required Information: The final plat shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name of subdivision and the name of the owner, the subdivider and
the engineer.
      2.   Date, north point, scale (written and graphic).
      3.   Boundaries of the subdivided area with accurate distances and
bearings noted thereon.
      4.   Exact location of the subdivision and the description of all
monuments found or placed in making the survey.
      5.   The lines, names and width or dimensions of all proposed street
rights of way.
      6.   The lines, widths and purposes of all easements.
      7.   Numbered designation of all lots in the subdivision, with their
lines and dimensions accurately shown.
      8.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions.
      9.   Certification by the registered professional engineer or land
surveyor who designed the plat, as to the accuracy of the survey and plat.
      10.   Dedication, by the owner, of lands for public use, including
streets and walkways.
      11.   Exact dimensions of all lots.
      12.   Exact radii of all curves and length of all tangents.
      13.   Any additional data as may be required by the planning commission.
(1990 Code § 12-433)
12-3-5: REVIEW OF PLAT:
   A.   Planning Commission:
      1.   The planning commission shall review the final plat for conformance
with the preliminary plat and shall prepare a set of written recommendations to
be submitted to the city council at the time the final plat is considered.
      2.   The planning commission shall examine the final plat and shall
approve or disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its
submittal. If the final plat is approved with the modification or waiver of
certain requirements, the planning commission shall specify the reasons
therefor. If the final plat is disapproved, the grounds for refusal, including
citation to the applicable regulations or general plan shall be stated on the
record of the planning commission. If the planning commission fails to act, a
certificate by the city clerk as to date of submission of plat for final
approval and failure of planning commission to act thereon within such
specified time shall be sufficient in lieu of written endorsement of approval.
      3.   The action of the planning commission shall be shown on the final
plat, with the date of action over the signature of the chairman, vice
chairman, or secretary.
      4.   The planning commission shall transmit to the city council the
tracing and two (2) paper copies of the final plat, together with four (4)
copies of the restrictive covenants and a listing of all required improvements
indicating they have been installed or a contract and bond ensuring their
installation have been satisfactorily secured by the city clerk.
      5.   The city clerk shall transmit a copy of the final plat as approved
by the planning commission to the school board affected and the public utility
companies.
      6.   After the planning commission and city council have approved the
final plat, no change shall be made therein unless the plat is resubmitted for
approval of the planning commission and city council. (1990 Code § 12-450)
   B.   City Council: Before recording the final plat, it shall be submitted to
the city council for approval and for acceptance of public ways and service and
utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This approval of the plat
shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and attested to by the city
clerk or his deputy. The disapproval of any plat or plan by the city council
shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication shown thereon. (1990 Code
§ 12-451)
12-3-6: RECORDING OF PLAT:
After final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required signatures on
the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide the planning commission with
two (2) dark line prints thereof and one contact reproducible cloth tracing or
a stable base tracing medium of Mylar, Cronar, or similar durable material; the
tracing to be filed with the city clerk. One dark line print shall be retained
in the permanent file of the planning commission and one shall be sent to the
office of the city clerk. The applicant shall file, within six (6) months after
the date of approval by the city council, the original tracing, one dark line
copy on linenback, and one contact reproducible cloth tracing or film with the
county clerk. (1990 Code § 12-460)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Monuments
12-4-2: Improvements; Facilities
12-4-3: Major Highway Frontage Streets
12-4-1: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Block Corners: Each block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or
pins not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") long and placed at least one inch (1") below finished grade.
   B.   Property Lines: Monuments marking property lines and corners shall not
be disturbed; or if such disturbance is necessary, the monuments shall be
replaced at the exact spot from which they were removed.
   C.   Permanent Concrete Markers: All subdivisions shall be marked with a
permanent concrete marker capped with a noncorrosive metal plate set at least
one inch (1") below the finished grade. Such marker shall be at least thirty
inches (30") in length and eight inches (8") square. (1990 Code § 12-440)
12-4-2: IMPROVEMENTS; FACILITIES:
   A.   Facilities Required; Guarantee: Any final plat of subdivision located
within the corporate limits shall not be approved unless the subdivider or
developer shall provide the facilities listed below or file a surety bond with
the city clerk to ensure the actual construction of such improvements according
to the plans and specifications approved by the city council or city engineer
within a period of time not to exceed one year from the date of final plat
approval. Such bond shall equal one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
improvements as estimated by the city engineer. Conditions stipulated by the
bond shall be acceptable to the city attorney and city council. No building
shall take place until all such facilities have been constructed:
      1.   Water mains properly connected with public water supply system shall
be provided to ensure adequate water flow for fire protection.
      2.   A sanitary sewer system properly connected with the existing system
in accordance with standard specifications governing sanitary sewer
construction and in accord with requirements of state and county health
departments.
      3.   Streets graveled and graded to the full roadway width and
established grade of the city; such streets may be required to be paved by a
stable base material such as concrete or asphalt if it is deemed necessary by
the planning commission.
      4.   Storm drainage facilities, to provide adequate surface water
drainage for the area being drained.
      5.   Street and traffic control signs according to specifications and
requirements established by the city.
   B.   Compliance With City Plans And Specifications: All such facilities
shall be installed according to plans and specifications of the city. (1990
Code § 12-441)
12-4-3: MAJOR HIGHWAY FRONTAGE STREETS:
   A.   Limited Access: Where a major street intersects with a freeway or
another major street, there shall be no access for a minimum distance of six
hundred feet (600'), measured from the nearest intersecting rights of way
lines. The distance may be extended if traffic conditions, as determined by the
planning commission, warrant such extension.
   B.   Frontage Road Entrance: Access to the property within the six hundred
feet (600') shall be by service or frontage road entrance onto the highway
adjacent to the prescribed distance. (1990 Code § 12-442)
CHAPTER 5
VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Variances And Exceptions
12-5-2: Amendments
12-5-1: VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever it would be inadvisable to apply a provision of this title because a
tract is of such unusual size, shape, or character as would render an
extraordinary hardship not created or imposed by the owner or developer, the
planning commission may modify such provision only to provide that substantial
justice may be done, the public interest secured, and the intent and spirit of
this title fulfilled; provided, that in no event shall the requirements of
procedure or improvements be waived. Such modification thus granted shall be
made at the written request of the developer stating the reasons for such
modification and shall be waived only by three-fourths (3/4) vote of the
regular membership of the planning commission. Any such modifications thus
granted shall be duly entered and recorded in the minutes of the planning
commission, setting forth therein the reasons which justify the modifications.
(1990 Code § 12-470)
12-5-2: AMENDMENTS:
The city council may, from time to time, adopt, amend, and make public rules
and regulations for the administration of this title to the end that the public
be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. This title may be enlarged
or amended by the city council after public hearing, due notice of which shall
be given as required by law. (1990 Code § 12-471)
