CITY OF PRAGUE
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 497, passed July 10, 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
PREFACE
   This City Code of the City of Prague, as supplemented, contains ordinances
and resolutions up to and including Ordinance 497, passed July 13, 2023, and
Resolution 98-07, passed September 14, 1998. Ordinances and resolutions of the
City adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede the provisions of
this City Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 400
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF THE CITY OF PRAGUE, OKLAHOMA
PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN PROVIDING A
PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH
CODE AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED by the governing body of the city of Prague:
Section 1. The code entitled "Code Of Ordinances, City Of Prague," published by
the city of Prague consisting of parts 1 through 17, each inclusive, is hereby
adopted.
Section 2. All penal ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before January 8, 2007, and not included in the code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein are repealed.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. Whenever in such code or in any other ordinance of the city, or in
any rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him, or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, or an
offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the
violation of any such provisions of such code or any other ordinance of the
city of such rule, regulation or order shall be punished as indicated in
section
1-108.
   The provisions above notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that
established by state statute for the same offense. Except as otherwise
provided, every day any violation of this code or any other ordinance of the
city or any rule regulation or order shall continue, shall constitute a
separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty
is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any code section whether
or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to
the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as
abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses or
permits.
Section 5. Additions or amendments to the code, when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the city to make the same a part of the code, shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the code, so that reference to the code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6. Ordinances adopted after January 8, 2007, that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the code.
Section 7. The continuance in effect of non-penal, temporary and/or special
ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not
be affected by such omission therefrom and adoption of the code shall not
repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among, but
not limited to, the non-penal, temporary and/or special ordinances not repealed
or amended by adoption of the code, are the following: ordinances creating,
opening, dedicating, vacating, or closing specific streets, alleys and other
public ways, naming or changing the names of specific streets and other public
ways, establishing grades of specific streets and other public ways,
authorizing or relating to specific issues of bonds, creating or relating to
specific sewer and paving districts and other specific local improvement
districts, making special assessments for local improvements, annexing
territory to or excluding territory from the city, calling or providing for
special election, approving or authorizing specific contracts with the state or
with others, authorizing lease, sale or purchase of property, granting rights-
of-way or other rights and privileges to specific railroad companies or others,
granting a specific public utility or any other person, firm or corporation the
right or privilege of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of
otherwise using the streets and alleys, granting a franchise to a specific
public utility, or regulating a specific public utility or amending the zoning
map, or including specific property within or deleting specific property from
any zoning district or classification or affecting the city budget or relating
to salaries of city officers or employees.
Section 8. Whereas, it being necessary for the preservation of the public
health, peace and safety of the city of Prague, an emergency is declared to
exist and by reason thereof this ordinance shall take full force from and after
its adoption.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PRAGUE, OKLAHOMA, this 8th
day of January, 2007, after compliance with notice requirements of the open
meeting law (title 25 O.S. §301, et seq).
      /s/ Richard Opela   
       RICHARD OPELA, MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Donna Mobly   
CITY CLERK
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY this 8th day of January, 2007.
      /s/ Tracy L. McDaniel   
      CITY ATTORNEY
PART 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Use And Construction Of The Code   1
Corporate And Ward Limits   2
CHAPTER 1
USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
SECTION:
1-101: How Code Designated And Cited
1-102: Rules Of Construction
1-103: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-104: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-105: Severability
1-106: Amendment To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
1-107: Altering Code
1-108: General Penalty
1-109: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-110: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
1-101: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED 1 :
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY OF PRAGUE, OKLAHOMA, and may be
so cited. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-108, 14-109.
1-102: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules are
observed unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent
of the Council:
CITY OR THIS CITY: Shall be construed as if the words "of Prague, Oklahoma",
followed them.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of Prague.
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: The County of Lincoln, Oklahoma.
GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to other
genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LAW: Includes applicable Federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the City, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
MANAGER OR CITY MANAGER: The City Manager of the City.
MAYOR: The Mayor of the City.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases which are not specifically
defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted usage of the
language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS, ETC.: Whenever reference is made to officers,
agencies or departments by title only, i.e., "Clerk", "City Clerk", "City
Attorney", "Fire Chief", "Chief of Police", etc., they shall mean the officers,
agencies or departments of the City.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
STATE OR THIS STATE: The State of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the State of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the City which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
YEAR: A calendar year. (Prior Code, Secs. 10-1–10-3)
1-103: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
The catchlines of sections in this Code are printed in capital letters and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the contents
of the section and original historical source respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, or citations, are amended
or reenacted. (1983 Code)
1-104: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed. (1983 Code)
1-105: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code or of any
ordinance in the Code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code. (Prior Code,
Sec. 10-5)
1-106: AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE 1 :
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Prague, Oklahoma, that
Section            of the code of ordinances of the City of Prague, Oklahoma,
is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full.)
   C.   When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section            Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Prague,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances of the City of Prague, Oklahoma, and the sections of
this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 14-103 et seq.
1-107: ALTERING CODE:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this chapter. (1983 Code)
1-108: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs, or by
imprisonment for not more than sixty (60) days, or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of
this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2006)
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Ord. 204, 12-6-1976, as amended; amd. Ord. 291, 8-14-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-111, 27-119.
1-109: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (1983 Code)
1-110: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the
corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (Prior code § 10-6)
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
SECTION:
1-201: Map Of City Designated As Official Map
1-202: Ward Number And Boundaries
1-201: MAP OF CITY DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations made to the city through and including the date of May 1, 1983.
(1983 Code)
1-202: WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES:
Pursuant to the provisions of this Code and consistent with the 2020 United
States Census, the Council Wards for the City of Prague, Oklahoma shall be
divided in accordance with the following boundaries:
   A.   Ward I: Everything North and East of a line beginning at a point at the
East City Limits at Hwy 62 and 3570 Rd. Then West on Hwy 62 to Ayars Ave., then
north on Ayars Ave. to 11th St., then west on 11th St to Brunson, then North on
Brunson to 15th St, then West on 15th St to Jim Thorpe Blvd, then South on Jim
Thorpe Blvd to 11th St, then West on 11th St to Babek, then North on Babek to
12th St, then East on 12th St to Pastusek, then North on Pastusek to the
Northern edge of the City Limits.
   B.   Ward II: Everything within a line beginning on the East City Limits
where 11th St meets Hwy 62, then north from Hwy 62 on Ayars Ave. to 11th St.,
then West on 11th St to Brunson, then North on Brunson to 15th St, then West on
15th St to Jim Thorpe Blvd, then South on Jim Thorpe Blvd to 11th St, then West
on 11th St to Babek, then North on Babek to 12th St, then East on 12th St to
Pastusek, then north on Pastusek to 13th St., then west on 13th St to Whitmore,
then south on Whitmore to 12th St., then east on 12th St. to Sekera, then South
on Sekera to Main St, then East on Main St to Pastusek, then south on Pastusek
to 8th St., then East on 8th St to Mitacek, then South on Mitacek to 7th St,
then East on 7th St to Ayars, then North on Ayars to 8th St, then East on 8th
St to Wells, then North on Wells to 9th St, then East to the City Limits.
   C.   Ward III: Everything South of a line beginning at a point at the East
City Limits at 9th St, then West on 9th St to Wells, then South on Wells to 8th
St, then West on 8th St to Ayars, then South on Ayars to 7th St, then West on
7th St to Pastusek, then North on Pastusek to Hwy 62, then West on Hwy 62 to
the City Limits.
   D.   Ward IV: Everything North and West of a line from the North City Limits
at Pastusek, then South on Pastusek to 13th St, then West on 13th St to
Whitmore, then South on Whitmore to 12th St., then east on 12th St. to Babek,
then south on Babek to Main St, then West on Main St to the West City Limits.
(Ord. 427, 11-14-2011; amd. Ord. 495, 9-14-2022)
PART 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
Government Organization   1
City Council   2
City Manager   3
Finance Department   4
Departments, Officers And Employees   5
Social Security   6
Retirement And Pensions   7
Fire Pension System   7A
Employee Retirement System   7B
Deferred Compensation Plan   7C
City Manager Defined Contribution Plan   7D
Police Pension And Retirement System   7E
CHAPTER 1
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-101: Council Manager Form Of Government
2-101: COUNCIL MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT 1 :
The City is governed by the statutory council manager form of government. The
powers of the City are vested in the City Council. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 10-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-201: Elections To Be Held; Four Year Overlapping Terms
2-202: Time Of Regular Meetings Of The Council
2-203: Place Of Meetings Of The Council
2-204: Council Members Allowed To Serve As Volunteers Within The City
2-201: ELECTIONS TO BE HELD; FOUR YEAR OVERLAPPING TERMS:
   A.   In a statutory council-manager city, the terms of the elected officers
shall be staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the following
officers are to be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Council members from wards I and II.
   B.   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to
be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Council members from wards III and IV; and
      2.   The council member at large. (Prior code § 1-1)
2-202: TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
The council of the city shall hold a regular meeting at six thirty o'clock (6:
30) P.M. on the second Monday of every month. If such a Monday falls on a
holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that same time on the next day
which is not a holiday or Sunday. (Ord. 422, 6-13-2011)
2-203: PLACE OF MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
Every meeting of the council shall be held in the council chamber in the city
hall unless, in case of an emergency, the mayor or the council members calling
a special meeting designate another place in the city for the holding of the
special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within
the city designated by the council. (Prior code § 1-3)
2-204: COUNCIL MEMBERS ALLOWED TO SERVE AS VOLUNTEERS WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   An elected member of the city council, in addition to his or her duties
on the council, may also serve as a volunteer within the city. Any council
member serving in such dual capacity shall abide by all the rules and
regulations of the department and shall be under the authority of all officers
of the department and all other superior officers of the city when acting in
the capacity of that department. A council member serving in such dual capacity
shall not use his or her position on the council to seek advancement or to gain
any type of benefit not available to any other member of that department. Any
council member serving in such dual capacity shall not receive compensation for
his or her duties, provided however, that said council member shall receive all
other noncompensatory benefits. Fire department pension benefits of any council
member who served as a firefighter before serving as a member of the council
shall not be affected by subsequent service on the city council.
   B.   Said council member may not serve in a supervisory position within that
department when serving as a volunteer. (Ord. 394, 1-9-2006)
CHAPTER 3
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2-301: City Manager Appointment
2-302: Duties
2-301: CITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT 1 :
The Council shall appoint a City Manager for an indefinite term by a vote of a
majority of all its members. It shall choose him solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his
actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-4)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 10-112, 10-113.
2-302: DUTIES:
   A.   The City Manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the City government. He shall execute the laws and
administer the government of the City, and shall be responsible therefor to the
Council. He shall:
      1.   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, remove,
demote, lay off or suspend all heads of administrative departments and other
administrative officers and employees of the City except as otherwise provided
by law. The Manager or the Council by ordinance may authorize the head of a
department, office or agency to appoint and remove the subordinates in such
department, office or agency;
      2.   Supervise and control all administrative departments, officers and
agencies;
      3.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the Council and be
responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect; and
recommend to the Council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable;
      4.   Submit to the Council a report after the end of the fiscal year on
the finances and administrative activities of the City for the preceding year;
      5.   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future needs
of the City, and make recommendations as he deems desirable; and
      6.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
ordinance. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-401: Finance Department; City Clerk/Treasurer
2-402: Duties Of The City Clerk/Treasurer
2-403: City Treasurer
2-404: Duties Of The City Treasurer
2-401: FINANCE DEPARTMENT; CITY CLERK/TREASURER 1 :
There is a Department of Finance, which consists of the City Clerk/Treasurer,
who shall be the head of the Department. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be
appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term and removable by the
Manager. The City Manager shall recommend to the City Council the Clerk/
Treasurer for affirmation of the Treasurer's responsibilities as provided in
title 11 Oklahoma Statutes 10-118 et seq. The City Treasurer shall be under the
supervision of the City Manager for daily job performance. (Ord. 307, 10-11-
1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 10-117.
2-402: DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK/TREASURER 1 :
The City Clerk/Treasurer shall collect or receive revenue and other money for
the City, and shall deposit the same daily in such depositories as the Council
may designate; and shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by
applicable law or ordinance. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a general
accounting system for the City government. He shall have such powers and duties
and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or ordinance. (Ord. 307,
10-11-1993)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 10-118.
2-403: CITY TREASURER 1 :
Within the Department of Finance, there is a City Treasurer, who is an officer
of the City and who shall be appointed by the Council for an indefinite term.
The same person may hold both the office of City Clerk and the office of City
Treasurer; that is, the Council may appoint as City Treasurer the same person
whom the Manager has appointed as City Clerk, and the Manager may appoint as
Clerk the same person the Council has appointed as Treasurer. (Prior Code, Sec.
1-7)
 
Notes
1 3. 11 OS § 10-118.
2-404: DUTIES OF THE CITY TREASURER:
The City Treasurer shall deposit daily all funds coming into his hands in such
depositories as the Council may designate; and shall disburse such funds in the
manner provided by applicable law or ordinance. He shall have such other
powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or by
ordinance. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-8)
CHAPTER 5
DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
2-501: Department Of Law; City Attorney
2-502: Health Department; Director
2-503: Officers And Employees; Number And Classes; Compensation
2-504: Certain Personnel To Be Bonded
2-505: Elected City Official Compensation; Training; Reimbursements
2-501: DEPARTMENT OF LAW; CITY ATTORNEY:
There is a department of law, the head of which is the city attorney appointed
by the city manager for an indefinite term, and removable by the manager. The
city attorney is an officer of the city, and has supervision and control of the
department of law. The city attorney is the chief legal adviser of the council
and all other officers, departments, and agencies of the city government in
matters relating to their official powers and duties. He represents the city in
proceedings in the courts, and performs all services incident to his position
which may be required by law or ordinance. (Prior code §§ 1-24, 1-25)
2-502: HEALTH DEPARTMENT; DIRECTOR:
   A.   There is a department of public health, the head of which shall be the
city superintendent of public health appointed by the city manager for an
indefinite term, and removable by the manager. He shall be a regularly licensed
practicing physician in good standing and of good moral character, and a
resident of the city. Any mention in the ordinances of the city of the
"superintendent of health", "superintendent of public health", or "health
officer", shall be deemed to refer to the city superintendent of public health
unless otherwise indicated by the context in which such words may be found. He
shall be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and control of the
department of public health. There shall be such other officers and employees
in the department as the council may authorize. All officers and employees of
the department shall be appointed by the city manager, and shall be removable
by him.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the creation and operation of a
cooperative health department as is now or may be provided by law.
   C.   The department of public health shall perform such duties, and have
such powers as may be prescribed by ordinance, law and the rules and
regulations of the state department of health. (Prior code §§ 1-29, 1-30)
2-503: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; NUMBER AND CLASSES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   The council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the
number of classes of offices and positions of employment in the various
departments, offices, and agencies of the city government, and may determine or
regulate the compensation to be paid to officers and employees.
   B.   Neither the municipal judge nor any other officer or employee of the
city government may receive as compensation any fee of any kind except as may
be specifically provided by ordinance passed hereafter; and all fees and other
money collected for the city by an officer or employee shall be paid to the
city clerk to be deposited as provided by law. (Prior code § 1-39)
2-504: CERTAIN PERSONNEL TO BE BONDED 1 :
   A.   Before entering upon their official duties, the following personnel of
the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
official duties, payable to the city, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in the amounts respectively indicated after their
titles:
      1.   City clerk, two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); and
      2.   City treasurer, ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   The council, by motion or resolution, may require other officers and
employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded; also by motion or
resolution may increase the amount of the bonds for the personnel listed in
subsection A of this section and also may provide for blanket bonds for city
personnel. The city shall pay the provisions on the bonds. (Prior code § 1-40)
2-205: ELECTED CITY OFFICIAL COMPENSATION; TRAINING; REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   Elected city officials shall serve without compensation.
   B.   The cost associated with required training classes for city officials
shall be born by the city of Prague. City officials may be reimbursed for the
reasonable expenses associated with the attendance of required training.
Reasonable expenses include transportation costs, meals, and lodging. City
officials shall be responsible for maintaining accurate records of their
expenses and must present said records to the city clerk to receive
reimbursement. In the event submitted expenses appear to be unreasonable in any
way the request for reimbursement shall be reviewed and approved or denied by
the city council.
   C.   Any elected official desiring to attend additional (nonrequired)
training must pay for the training, or submit a request to the city council in
advance seeking approval of payment of the cost of the training and
reimbursement of reasonable expenses as defined herein. (Ord. 453, 3-9-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 8-105.
CHAPTER 6
SOCIAL SECURITY
SECTION:
2-601: Declaration Of Policy To Come Under Coverage
2-602: Execution Of Agreement With State Agency
2-603: Withholdings
2-604: Contributions
2-605: Records And Reports
2-606: Exclusions
2-601: DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE 1 :
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the City to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the City the
benefits of the system of Federal Old- Age and Survivors Insurance as
authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and all amendments thereto, and
section 121 et seq. of title 51 of the Oklahoma Statutes. In pursuance of this
policy, the officers and employees of the City shall take such action as may be
required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (Prior Code, Sec.
1-45)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS § 125.
2-602: EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY:
The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the State Department of Human Services to accomplish the
provisions of Section
2-601 of this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-46)
2-603: WITHHOLDINGS:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purposes
provided in Section
2-601 of this Chapter are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the State or Federal agency designated
by the laws and regulations. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-47)
2-604: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated State or Federal agency in
accordance with applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (Prior Code,
Sec. 1-48)
2-605: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The City shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required by
applicable State or Federal laws or regulations. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-49)
2-606: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Excluded from this Chapter authorizing the extension of social security
benefits to City officers and employees are the following:
      1.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
City; or
      2.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable State or
Federal laws or regulations. (Prior Code, Secs. 1-50, 1-51)
CHAPTER 7
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
   Article A. Fire Pension System
2-701: Local Fire Pension And Retirement Board
2-702: Fund To Be Operated In Accordance With Law
2-703: Contributions To Fund
   Article B. Employee Retirement System
2-710: Employee Retirement System Created
2-711: Administration
2-712: Fund
2-713: Appropriations
2-714: Execution
2-715: Conflicting Laws
   Article C. Deferred Compensation Plan
2-720: Plan Adopted
2-721: Administration
2-722: Trust
2-723: Execution
   Article D. City Manager Defined Contribution Plan
2-730: Plan Created
2-731: Administration
2-732: Fund
2-733: Appropriations
2-734: Execution
   Article E. Police Pension And Retirement System
2-740: Adoption
ARTICLE A. FIRE PENSION SYSTEM 1
2-701: LOCAL FIRE PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD 2 :
There is hereby created a local firefighters' pension and retirement board
composed of the mayor, the clerk, the treasurer and three (3) members from the
fire department. The board shall have the membership, organization, powers,
duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-103 et
seq. (Prior code § 1-42; amd. 1983 Code)
2-702: FUND TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW:
The city's firefighters' pension and retirement system and fund shall be
operated in accordance with state law relating to the fund and system. (Prior
code § 1-43)
2-703: CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND 3 :
   A.   The clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid member
of the fire department the amounts which are required by applicable state law.
If the members of the fire department, by a majority vote of its paid members,
vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts authorized by this
subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts approved by the majority
vote. The treasurer of the city shall deposit monthly in the Oklahoma
firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts deducted pursuant to
this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a fire
department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The deductions
shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to ascertain
the exact amount which he is contributing.
   B.   The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the fire department.
   C.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the city treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement
board the amounts of money which are required by applicable state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
   D.   All assets of the city firefighters' pension and retirement fund shall
be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the state board. (Prior code § 1-44; amd.
1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also part 13, chapter 2 of this code.
2 2. 11 OS § 49-101 et seq.
3 1. 11 OS § 49-122, effective 1-1-1981.
ARTICLE B. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
2-710: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state and for the
purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of city
employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby authorized,
created, established, approved and adopted, effective as of November 1, 1976,
the funded pension plan designated "employee retirement system of Prague,
Oklahoma" (hereinafter called "system"), and as amended from time to time, an
executed counterpart of which is marked exhibit A and is on file in the city
clerk's office and is subject to public inspection. (Ord. 203, 11-15-1976; amd.
Ord. 235, 6-18-1979; Ord. 272, 1-9-1984)
2-711: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the system there is hereby established a
board of trustees, which shall be the members of the city council as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the board of trustees shall be set forth in the system
instrument marked exhibit A as mentioned in section 2-710 of this chapter.
(Ord. 203, 11-15-1976)
2-712: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city treasurer, who
shall be the treasurer of the system. Such fund shall be pooled for purposes of
management and investment with similar funds of other incorporated cities and
towns in the state as a part of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, in
accordance with a duly executed contract for such purpose which contract shall
be executed by the city council as soon as feasible. The city treasurer shall
hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over
and transfer the same to the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the board of trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the county excise board. The fund and system shall be valued each year
for actuarial soundness by a qualified actuarial firm. (Ord. 203, 11-15-1976)
2-713: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation and administration of the system and to appropriate
and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to appropriate
annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee contributions, to
maintain its amended retirement system and the fund on a sound actuarial basis
in accordance with the respective biannual actuarial valuation. However, the
amount so appropriated in any one fiscal year of the city to maintain the
system and trust fund shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the current annual
salaries of all employees covered by the system. Any appropriation so made to
maintain the amended retirement system and fund shall be for deferred wages or
salaries and for the payment of necessary expenses of operation and
administration, including separate annual appropriations to be transferred to
the trustees of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund for such purposes, and
shall be paid into the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund when available,
through the city treasurer, to be by him duly transferred to the fund. (Ord.
203, 11-15-1976)
2-714: EXECUTION:
   A.   The mayor and city clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the original system instrument, amendment number one, adopted June
18, 1979, and all other amendments, and to do all other acts and things
necessary, advisable and proper to put the system and amendments and related
trust into full force and effect, and to make such changes therein as may be
necessary to qualify the same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the internal
revenue code of the United States. The counterpart marked as exhibit A, which
has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of this
chapter is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
   B.   The city council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the city to negotiate a contract with other
incorporated cities and towns of the state to pool and combine the fund into
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
The city council shall manifest approval of such contract and the execution
thereof by the mayor and city clerk by a formal resolution. (Ord. 203, 11-15-
1976; amd. Ord. 235, 6-18-1979)
2-715: CONFLICTING LAWS:
Any ordinance inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter is
hereby repealed, provided, however, that such repeal shall be only to the
extent of such inconsistency and in all other respects this chapter shall be
cumulative of other ordinances regulating and governing subject matter covered
by this chapter. (Ord. 203, 11-15-1976)
ARTICLE C. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
2-720: PLAN ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state, and for the
purpose of enabling municipal employees to enhance their retirement security,
there is hereby authorized, approved and adopted, effective as of July 1997, a
deferred compensation plan ("plan") of the city, as amended, an executed
counterpart of which is marked exhibit A and available for inspection in the
office of the city clerk. (Ord. 337, 6-12-1997)
2-721: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the plan there is hereby established a
committee, which shall be the members of the city council, as now existing or
as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The powers and
duties of the committee shall be as set forth in the instrument referred to in
section 2-720 of this chapter as exhibit A. (Ord. 337, 6-12-1997)
2-722: TRUST:
A trust (referred to in exhibit B, available for inspection in the office of
the city clerk) is hereby provided for the exclusive use of the deferred
compensation plan. All contributions to such trust shall be paid over to and
received for such purpose by the city treasurer. The city treasurer shall hold
such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over and
transfer the same to the trustee of the plan. The trust shall be nonfiscal and
shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is made
to the county excise board. (Ord. 337, 6-12-1997)
2-723: EXECUTION:
The mayor and city clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and directed to
execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) exhibit A
and exhibit B, and to do all other acts and things necessary, advisable, and
proper to put said plan and related trust into full force and effect, and to
make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under section
457 of the internal revenue code of the United States. The counterparts hereto,
referred to as exhibit A and exhibit B, which have been duly executed as
aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of this chapter and made a part
hereof, are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects, and are available
for inspection in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 337, 6-12-1997)
ARTICLE D. CITY MANAGER DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN
2-730: PLAN CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state of Oklahoma, and
for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part
of city employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized created, established, and approved and adopted, effective as of June
1, 2003, the funded pension plan designated "employee retirement system of city
of Prague, Oklahoma, city manager defined contribution plan" (hereinafter
called system), and as amended from time to time, an executed counterpart of
which is marked exhibit A and exhibit B and attached to the ordinance codified
herein as part hereof. (Ord. 382, 6-9-2003)
2-731: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the system there is hereby established a
retirement committee, which shall be the members of the city council of the
city of Prague, Oklahoma, as now existing or as from time to time duly elected
or appointed and constituted. The powers and duties of the committee shall be
as set forth in the system instrument attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit A. (Ord. 382, 6-9-2003)
2-732: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city treasurer, who
shall be the treasurer of the system. Such fund shall be pooled for purposes of
management and investment with similar funds of other incorporated cities,
towns, and municipal trusts in the state of Oklahoma as a part of the Oklahoma
municipal retirement fund in accordance with the trust agreement of the
Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, a public trust. The city treasurer shall
hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over
and transfer the same to the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, as duly
authorized and directed by the board of trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal
and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is
made to the county excise board. (Ord. 382, 6-9-2003)
2-733: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city of Prague, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation, and administration of the system,
and to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the city of Prague, Oklahoma,
is hereby authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as are required in
addition to employee contributions to maintain the system and the fund in
accordance with the provisions of the city manager defined contribution plan.
Any appropriation so made to maintain the system and fund shall be for deferred
wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of operation and
administration to be transferred to the trustees of the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund for such purposes and shall be paid into the fund when
available, through the city treasurer, to be by him duly transferred to the
Oklahoma municipal retirement fund. (Ord. 382, 6-9-2003)
2-734: EXECUTION:
   A.   The mayor and city clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable, and proper to put said system and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the internal revenue code of the
United States. The counterpart attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A, which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the
passage of this article and made a part hereof, is hereby ratified and
confirmed in all respects.
   B.   The city council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the city of Prague, Oklahoma, to pool and combine the
fund into the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund as a part thereof, with
similar funds of such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management
and investment. (Ord. 382, 6-9-2003)
ARTICLE E. POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM
2-740: ADOPTION:
The city adopts the state statutes 1  with regard to the police pension and
retirement system. (Ord. 429, 2-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 50-101 et seq.
PART 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Alcoholic Beverages; Taxation And Regulation   1
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TAXATION AND REGULATION 1
SECTION:
3-101: Purpose
3-102: Definitions
3-103: Occupation Tax Levied
3-104: Tax To Be Paid To City Clerk; Records; State License Required
3-105: Expiration Date; Proration; No Refunds
3-106: Not To Operate Until Tax Has Been Paid
3-107: City Clerk To Make Report
3-108: Violation Of State Law Also Violation Of This Code
3-109: Days And Hours Of Operation
3-110: Offenses
3-111: Advertising
3-112: Separate Premises Required
3-113: Beverage Not To Be Taken Through Passageway For Sale
3-114: How Beverage Is To Be Sold; Not To Consume On Premises
3-115: Person Not To Consume On Premises
3-116: To Be Sold Only In Retail Stores
3-117: Not To Operate In Forbidden Area
3-118: Transportation
3-119: Not To Sell On Credit
3-120: Not To Give Prizes
3-121: Not To Sell Or Deliver To Retail Store On Certain Days
3-122: Not To Permit Intoxicated Persons In Restaurants
3-123: Separate Offenses
3-124: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS.
3-101: PURPOSE:
This Code is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the City to preserve
the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof, and to aid the
enforcement of the policy of the State as established by the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act. (1983 Code)
3-102: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Beverages controlled by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.
PACKAGE STORE: A retail alcoholic beverage store.
STATE LICENSEE: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association who
holds a license issued by the authority of the Oklahoma Beverage Control Act.
   B.   The following specific terms: brewer, Class B wholesaler, distiller,
manufacturer, person, premises, winemaker, and wholesaler, are given the
meanings defined for them by section 6 of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.
   C.   Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa; and words
imparting the masculine gender include the feminine. (Prior Code § 2-1)
3-103: OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED:
The Occupation Tax fee schedule shall be set by resolution. (Ord. 474, 9-10-
2018)
3-104: TAX TO BE PAID TO CITY CLERK; RECORDS; STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   All Occupation Taxes herein provided shall be paid in advance, to the
City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt therefor. The City Clerk shall record the
name of such licensee and the address where he engages in his occupation. Such
records shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of the City for at
least five (5) years. Thereafter, upon resolution by the Council, such records
may be destroyed. Every person receiving such a receipt from the City Clerk
shall post the tax receipt in a conspicuous place in the premises wherein he
carries on his occupation.
   B.   No license may be issued until the applicant provides one true copy of
his current State or County license to the City Clerk. (1983 Code)
3-105: EXPIRATION DATE; PRORATION; NO REFUNDS:
   A.   All Occupation Taxes levied under the provisions of this chapter expire
on June 30 of each year.
   B.   The amount of any Occupation Tax levied shall be computed pro rata upon
the months remaining in the year ending June 30 following. Such taxes paid on
or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the first day
of the month, and such taxes paid after the fifteenth day of any month shall be
on the basis of the first day of the next succeeding month.
   C.   Once the tax has been paid as computed in this section, no refunds may
be made. (1983 Code)
3-106: NOT TO OPERATE UNTIL TAX HAS BEEN PAID:
No brewer, distiller, winemaker, Oklahoma winemaker, wholesaler, Class B
wholesaler, or retail package store shall do business, or offer to do business,
in this City until the Occupation Tax levied by this chapter has been paid in
full to the City Clerk, and receipt issued therefor. (1983 Code)
3-107: CITY CLERK TO MAKE REPORT:
The City Clerk shall make and transmit to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board an annual report showing the number and class of licensees upon
which Occupation Taxes were levied, and the amount of money collected from such
taxes. (1983 Code)
3-108: VIOLATION OF STATE LAW ALSO VIOLATION OF THIS CODE:
Any violation of any law of the State in connection with any of the matters
covered by this chapter shall be construed to be a specific violation of this
chapter, whether specifically covered by the provisions of this chapter or not.
(Prior Code § 2-2)
3-109: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
No retail package store shall be open for the purpose of selling an alcoholic
beverage at any hour other than between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday. No sales shall be made,
or retail package store be allowed to remain open for the purpose of doing
business, making sales, or receiving deliveries of alcoholic liquors, on the
day of any general, primary, primary runoff, or special election while the
polls are open, whether on a national, State, County, or City election or on
New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day. (Prior Code § 2-3)
3-110: OFFENSES:
   A.   It is an offense for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to be employed in the selling or handling of alcoholic beverages within this
City.
   B.   It is an offense to sell, furnish, or give any alcoholic beverage to
any person under twenty one (21) years of age, or to any intoxicated, insane,
or mentally deficient person.
   C.   It is an offense to permit any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to enter into, remain within, or loiter about the premises of any retail
package store.
   D.   It is an offense for any person to misrepresent his age in writing or
by presenting false documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any person
to sell him an alcoholic beverage. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-4)
3-111: ADVERTISING:
It is an offense for any person to advertise, or cause to be advertised, in any
manner, the sale of alcoholic beverages, except as specifically permitted by
the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-5)
3-112: SEPARATE PREMISES REQUIRED:
It is an offense for any person to maintain, operate, or assist in any manner
in the maintenance or operation of a retail package store unless the premises
are separated from adjoining premises on which any other goods, wares, or
merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by nontransparent walls, broken
only, if at all, by a passageway to which the public is not admitted. (Prior
Code, Sec. 2-6)
3-113: BEVERAGE NOT TO BE TAKEN THROUGH PASSAGEWAY FOR SALE:
It is an offense for any person to take any alcoholic beverage through any
passageway described in Section
3-112 of this Chapter for the purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or
for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a sale of such
beverages. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-7)
3-114: HOW BEVERAGE IS TO BE SOLD; NOT TO CONSUME ON PREMISES:
   A.   It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver any alcoholic
beverages at a retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
      1.   In retail containers;
      2.   At ordinary room temperatures;
      3.   In the original package; and
      4.   For consumption off the premises.
   B.   It is an offense for any person to permit any alcoholic beverage to be
consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be broken or opened, on
the premises of any retail package store. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-8)
3-115: PERSON NOT TO CONSUME ON PREMISES:
It is an offense for any person to drink or consume in any manner any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, or to open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverage, on such premises. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-9)
3-116: TO BE SOLD ONLY IN RETAIL STORES:
It is an offense for any person to sell at retail, or to deliver in consequence
or in completion of any such sale, any alcoholic beverages at or to any place
in the City except at a retail alcoholic beverage store, in strict conformity
with this Chapter and the laws of the State. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-10)
3-117: NOT TO OPERATE IN FORBIDDEN AREA:
It is an offense for any person to own, operate, maintain, or be interested in
any manner in any establishment mentioned in subsection 3-103A of this Chapter
at a place within the City which is forbidden as a location for such
establishment by the laws of the State or by zoning or other ordinances of the
City. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-11)
3-118: TRANSPORTATION:
   A.   It is an offense for any person to transport in any vehicle upon any
public highway, street, or alley, any alcoholic beverage, unless such alcoholic
beverage is:
      1.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the
original cap or cork not removed from the container; or
      2.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Sec. 2-12)
3-119: NOT TO SELL ON CREDIT:
It is an offense for any person to sell at retail, or to sell at any retail
alcoholic beverage store, any alcoholic beverage on credit. (Prior Code, Sec.
2-13)
3-120: NOT TO GIVE PRIZES:
It is an offense for any person to offer or to furnish any prize, premium,
gift, or similar inducement to any customer or consumer in connection with the
sale or attempted sale of any alcoholic beverage. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-14)
3-121: NOT TO SELL OR DELIVER TO RETAIL STORE ON CERTAIN DAYS:
It is an offense for any person to sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store any amount of spirits, wines, or other kind of alcoholic
beverage, on Saturday of any week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year's Day, on
Christmas Day, or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary,
runoff primary or special election whether national, State, County or City.
(Prior Code, Sec. 2-15)
3-122: NOT TO PERMIT INTOXICATED PERSONS IN RESTAURANTS:
It is an offense for any person, whether as owner, manager, operator, or
employee, of any cafe, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within the
City, to permit any person to be or to become drunk, intoxicated, or to be
under the influence of intoxicating drink at such place. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-
16)
3-123: SEPARATE OFFENSES:
Each day's violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense; but
nothing herein contained shall be construed as determining that not more than
any one such offense can be committed in any one day by the same person. (Prior
Code, Sec. 2-17)
3-124: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision contained in this chapter is an offense against
the City; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be punished
as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 2-18)
PART 4
ANIMALS
Animal Regulations   1
Definitions   1A
Domestic Animals (Not Dogs Or Cats)   1B
Dogs   1C
Cats   1D
Impoundment   1E
Other Provisions, Penalty   1F
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Article A. Definitions
4-101: Applicability
4-102: Definitions
4-103: Maximum Number
Article B. Domestic Animals (Not Dogs Or Cats)
4-110: Permit Required
4-111: Contents Of Permit Application
4-112: Permit Application To Show Compliance
4-113: Health Approval Prerequisite To Permit
4-114: Permit Fees; Expiration, Renewal
4-115: Permits To Keep Pigeons
4-116: Medical Laboratories, Educational Institutions, Veterinary Hospitals
Exempted For Distance Requirements
4-117: Preexisting Nonconforming Commercial Establishments
4-118: Area, Enclosure, Location For Large Animals, Except Swine
4-119: Area, Enclosure, Location For Small Animals, Except Dogs And Cats
4-120: Requirements For Building; Building Permit Required
4-121: Requirements For Fences
4-122: Sanitation Standards Generally
4-123: Sanitation Standards For Pigeons
4-124: Swine Keeping
4-125: Inspection Authorized
4-126: Running At Large Prohibited
4-127: Tethering On Right Of Way
4-128: Violations
Article C. Dogs
4-130: Running At Large
4-131: Abandoning, Deserting
4-132: Failure To Surrender Violating Dogs
4-133: Vaccination, Registration, License Fee Required
4-134: Certification Of Vaccination
4-135: Frequency Of Vaccination
4-136: Exemption For Transient Dogs
4-137: Veterinarian's Records
4-138: License And Registration Fees
4-139: Failure To Keep Dog Tagged
4-140: Proclamation Of Rabies Epidemic
4-141: Procedure When Rabies Suspected
4-142: Authority To Seize, Impound Violators
4-143: Vicious Dogs Prohibited
4-144: When Dog Constitutes A Nuisance
4-145: Nuisance Dogs Prohibited
4-146: Procedure For Vicious Dogs
4-147: Procedure For Nuisance Dogs
4-148: Reclaiming Dogs
4-149: Unreclaimed Dogs
Article D. Cats
4-150: Vaccination Required
4-151: Isolation, When
4-152: Release From Pound
Article E. Impoundment
4-160: Stock Poundmaster In Charge Of Impounding Animals
4-161: Disposition Of Impounded Animals By Public Sale
4-162: Notice Of Sale Of Impounded Animals
4-163: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
4-164: Stock Poundmaster; Monthly Report
4-165: Pound Charges Allowed
4-166: Obstruction Of Impounding Of Animals Prohibited
4-167: Breaking Open Pound Prohibited
Article F. Other Provisions; Penalty
4-170: Cruelty To Animals; Abandonment
4-171: Bird Sanctuary Designated
4-172: Acts Prohibited, Exception
4-173: Keeping Dangerous And Diseased Animals Prohibited
4-174: Dead Animals; Removal Of Dead Animals
4-175: Duty To Report Injury Or Death Of Animals Hit By Automobiles
4-176: Penalty
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
4-101: APPLICABILITY:
Subject to the provisions of the zoning ordinances, it is unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain or have in his possession any animals or fowl,
domestic or wild, large or small, except as herein provided. It is unlawful for
any person to keep, own, maintain or have in his possession any animals or
fowl, domesticated or wild, large or small, within the corporate limits of the
City, except that domestic animals or fowl, large or small, may be kept under
the conditions hereinafter set forth, provided a permit is first obtained as
hereinafter provided. This Article shall not apply to the keeping of dogs as
set out elsewhere in this Chapter. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-102: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
ANIMALS OR POULTRY: As specifically named herein, by whatever other name they
might be called, includes every age and sex of each of the species of animals
or poultry referred to herein.
AREA OF ENCLOSURE: That area, large or small, in which animals are confined.
Residences shall be excluded in computing the area of the enclosure.
AT LARGE: Off of the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his immediate family, either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise.
CONFINED ON THE PREMISES: That condition in which a dog is securely and
physically confined and restrained on and within the premises of the owner by
means of walls or fences, or by rope, chain, leash or other device, of such
strength and size as physically to prevent the dog from leaving the premises.
DOG: Any dog, male or female, and every other animal of canine species of the
age of six (6) months or older.
KEEPER OR PERSON: Refers to any person, family, firm or corporation owning or
actually keeping, having, using or maintaining any of the animals or poultry
referred to herein.
LARGE ANIMALS: Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep or any other animal
of similar size or stature.
NUISANCE: Consists in doing an act or omitting to perform a duty, which act or
omission either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others as defined by the statutes of the State and the ordinances of
the City.
OWNER: The owner of a dog and also every other person having the care or
custody of, harboring, keeping or maintaining any dog.
PERMIT: Any permit granted by the City Clerk after approval by the Health
Officer pursuant to power granted to him in this Chapter.
RABIES SUSPECTED DOG: Any dog which shall have bitten a human being, or which
shall have been bitten by any animal suspected of having rabies or an infection
associated therewith.
RAT-PROOF: A state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry of
rodents and vectors.
SANITARY: Any condition of good order and cleanliness which precludes the
probability of disease transmission.
SMALL ANIMALS: Rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, chickens, turkeys, guineas, geese,
ducks, hamsters, pigeons or any other animal or fowl of similar size or
stature.
VICIOUS DOG: One not only of disposition to attack every person or animal it
may meet, but it includes as well a natural fierceness or disposition to
mischief, as may occasionally lead it to attack human beings or animals without
provocation. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-103: MAXIMUM NUMBER:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to have in his possession or
under his control more than a total of four (4) dogs or cats, or any
combination thereof, over the age of six (6) months. (Ord. 410, 2-9-2009)
ARTICLE B. DOMESTIC ANIMALS (NOT DOGS OR CATS)
4-110: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A permit as hereinafter referred to is required to be had as a
prerequisite to the keeping, owning, maintaining, using or having in possession
any horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep or other similar large size
animals or any turkeys, geese, ducks, guineas, rabbits, chinchillas, pigeons or
other domestic fowl, or similar small animals.
   B.   A permit as required by subsection A of this section may be obtained
from the city clerk by written application and compliance with the sanitary
requirements as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-111: CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
An application for a permit for an animal or fowl pen shall contain the address
of the applicant, names of abutting property owners, a certificate of
vaccination of horses at least once each year for "sleeping sickness"
(encephalitis lethargica), and a certificate of vaccination on horses and other
animals where required by the agricultural code, state department of
agriculture or the statutes of the state; size of property in square feet,
distance from dwelling resided in by anyone other than the applicant, and any
other such information as the city clerk shall require. An affidavit of the
owner will be acceptable stating that the animals have been vaccinated, where
the owner is permitted by law to vaccinate such animals, in lieu of the
certificate of vaccination. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-112: PERMIT APPLICATION TO SHOW COMPLIANCE:
Application for a permit shall show that the applicant has facilities for
keeping the animals or poultry in quarters meeting the standards set up in this
article and which will confine the animals or poultry within the area limits
provided by this article. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-113: HEALTH APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PERMIT:
No permit required by this article shall be issued without the prior approval
of the health officer. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-114: PERMIT FEES; EXPIRATION, RENEWAL:
The city clerk shall collect an annual permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) to keep
small animals. Such permits shall expire on April 30 of each year and be
renewable on May 1 of each year. The owner shall present certificates or
affidavits of vaccination as required. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-115: PERMITS TO KEEP PIGEONS:
   A.   Permits may be obtained for the keeping of Antwerp messenger pigeons,
commonly called carrier or homing pigeons, by filing written application
showing the following:
      1.   That such pigeons will be confined to closed lofts and released
therefrom only for training and exercise flights, and not allowed to fly at
will;
      2.   That no other breed of pigeons will be kept in the same loft; and
      3.   That the pigeons shall not be raised for any commercial or business
purposes. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-116: MEDICAL LABORATORIES, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, VETERINARY HOSPITALS
EXEMPTED FOR DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Where the application is for the keeping of animals or poultry within the
limited number herein set forth, in medical laboratories or educational
institutions for medical research, or in veterinary hospitals for treating,
they shall be kept under the same conditions prescribed by the health officer
for such limited purposes without the necessity of compliance with the distance
requirements herein otherwise set forth. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-117: PREEXISTING NONCONFORMING COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
Where the application is for the keeping of animals or poultry beyond the
limited number herein set forth in commercial establishments such as produce
plants, broiler houses or sales barns, established and in operation before
August 1979, and which are contrary to the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be kept under the conditions prescribed by the health officer as set
forth by this chapter without the necessity of compliance with the distance and
limited number requirements herein otherwise set forth. Those commercial
establishments such as produce plants, broiler houses, laying houses or sales
barns, established and put in operation on and after August 1979, which, under
the legal provisions of the Zoning Ordinance are granted a permit to keep
animals or poultry beyond the limited number herein set forth, shall keep
animals or poultry under the conditions prescribed by the Health Officer as set
forth by this Chapter without the necessity of compliance with the limited
number requirements herein otherwise set forth. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-118: AREA, ENCLOSURE, LOCATION FOR LARGE ANIMALS, EXCEPT SWINE:
Horses, mules, donkeys, goats, sheep, cattle and other similar size large
animals, except swine, may not be kept on any parcel of land containing less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area for the first large animal;
providing, one additional large animal may be quartered for each additional
four thousand (4,000) square feet of area in excess of the first ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. The large animal or animals shall be confined in an
enclosure, provided such enclosure prevents the animal or animals from being
quartered within fifty feet (50') of the exterior limits of a church, business,
school or residence other than that of the owner. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-119: AREA, ENCLOSURE, LOCATION FOR SMALL ANIMALS, EXCEPT DOGS AND CATS:
Ducks, geese, chickens, hamsters, chinchillas, guineas, pigeons and other
similar size small animals or fowl, except dogs and cats, or any combination of
twelve (12) or more such animals or fowl may not be kept on any parcel of land
containing less than two thousand (2,000) square feet in area; provided twelve
(12) or fewer additional small animals or fowl may be quartered for each
additional one thousand (1,000) square feet of area in excess of the first two
thousand (2,000) square feet. Such small animals or fowl shall be confined in
an enclosure, provided such enclosure prevents the small animals or fowl from
being quartered within fifty feet (50') of the exterior limits of a church,
school, business or residence other than that of the owner. (Ord. 268, 4-11-
1983)
4-120: REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING; BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
The owner, keeper or possessor of any small animal, except dogs and cats, in
the City, shall provide enclosures which shall be substantially erected. The
erection of any house within the enclosure to provide shelter for small animals
shall be neatly built so as to conform to buildings on the surrounding premises
in neatness and appearance. A building permit shall be secured by the builder
before the beginning of the erection of any new building. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-121: REQUIREMENTS FOR FENCES:
Any owner of small animals who builds a fence in the City for the purpose of
keeping small animals is hereby required to build such fence so that it will
conform to the buildings on the premises and the immediate surroundings in
neatness and appearance. The enclosure shall be sufficient to prevent small
animals from escaping therefrom and running at large. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-122: SANITATION STANDARDS GENERALLY:
   A.   It is the duty of the holder of any permit provided for in this Article
where animals or fowl are kept, to maintain and operate the housing and
premises in such a manner as not to create a health nuisance.
   B.   Each pen or enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual spray
as often as necessary to control flies and other insects.
   C.   It is unlawful to dump or place any manure or other wastes from such
pens or enclosures in the garbage cans serviced by the Sanitation Department of
the City.
   D.   Exterior limits of animal or fowl enclosures shall be at least fifty
feet (50') from any private water well.
   E.   The failure of any keeper of animals or fowl to comply with the
sanitation standards shall be cause for the revocation of such permits. (Ord.
268, 4-11-1983)
4-123: SANITATION STANDARDS FOR PIGEONS:
The standards of sanitation for the keeping of pigeons as established by the
Health Officer shall be followed. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-124: SWINE KEEPING:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to rear or keep any swine within
the City limits unless authorized by the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 268, 4-11-
1983)
4-125: INSPECTION AUTHORIZED:
The Health Officer or any duly authorized representative of the City may
inspect any property, pen or enclosure covered by this Article at any
reasonable hour of any day. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-126: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to permit the running at large of domestic fowl, cattle, hogs,
horses, mules, sheep, goats and other animals within the City. (Ord. 268, 4-11-
1983)
4-127: TETHERING ON RIGHT-OF-WAY:
It shall be an offense for any person to tether animals for grazing purposes on
any road or street right-of-way within the City. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-128: VIOLATIONS:
In addition to the remedies and fines or punishment otherwise provided, the
City shall institute any proper legal proceedings in the name of the City for
the abatement of any nuisance or other violations. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
ARTICLE C. DOGS
4-130: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned,
possessed, kept or harbored by him to run at large on the streets, alleys or
public places, or on any private premises not under the physical control of
such person, whether such dog is licensed or unlicensed.
   B.   Procedure And Penalty: When any dog is found running at large, an
Enforcement Officer may take the following actions:
      1.   The dog may be apprehended and impounded without consent of its
owner in accordance with section
4-142, "Authority To Seize, Impound Violators", of this article. Additionally,
the enforcement agent shall have the right to enter upon private property only
when necessary to apprehend the dog that has been running at large. Such
entrance upon private property shall be within reasonable pursuit and shall not
include entry into a domicile or enclosure which confines a dog except at the
invitation of the occupant or owner.
      2.   In addition to impoundment, the enforcement agent may issue a
citation to the dog owner or person acting for the owner as a keeper when the
dog is running at large.
      3.   Fines against owners and keepers pursuant to running at large
citations include:
         a.   There is a fine associated with this violation that is subject to
modification by the City Council through resolution. The current fee schedule
may be obtained from City Hall.
      Fines associated with a dog running at large citation do not include
impoundment cost and fees associated therewith pursuant to section
4-165, "Pound Charges Allowed", of this chapter. (Ord. 463, 4-11-2016; amd.
Ord. 488, 9-13-2021)
4-131: ABANDONING, DESERTING:
It is unlawful for any person to abandon or desert any dog or to permit any dog
to become a stray. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-132: FAILURE TO SURRENDER VIOLATING DOGS:
It is unlawful to fail or refuse to deliver to the Chief of Police or any
person designated by him, upon demand, any licensed or unlicensed dog, any
vicious dog, any dog which is a nuisance, any rabies suspected dog, or any dog
the keeping or harboring of which is declared to be an offense. (Ord. 268, 4-
11-1983)
4-133: VACCINATION, REGISTRATION, LICENSE FEE REQUIRED:
It is the duty of every person owning or having in his charge or possession any
dog over the age of six (6) months, to cause the dog to be vaccinated by a
person duly authorized to practice veterinary medicine in the State, or by any
person who is under the immediate and direct supervision of a licensed
veterinarian, and to register the dog with the Chief of Police and to pay the
license fee as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-134: CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION:
Each veterinarian vaccinating dogs shall issue to the owner of a vaccinated dog
a certificate showing the name of the owner of the dog, the date of vaccination
and a sufficient description of the dog to identify the same as required for
registration. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-135: FREQUENCY OF VACCINATION:
No vaccination against rabies shall be recognized to entitle the owner of the
dog to register it unless such vaccination shall have been had within the
calendar year for which the license is issued or within a period of sixty (60)
days prior thereto. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-136: EXEMPTION FOR TRANSIENT DOGS:
The requirement of an annual registration shall not apply to any dog which may
follow or be led by any nonresident or traveler through the City while such dog
is with its owner or keeper. The waiver of this provision for the dog of a
nonresident or traveler shall not exceed a period of thirty (30) days. (Ord.
268, 4-11-1983)
4-137: VETERINARIAN'S RECORDS:
It is the duty of each veterinarian practicing in the City to keep a record of
every dog vaccination, such record to be available to the Chief of Police or
any person designated by him, at any reasonable time and upon proper demand.
(Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-138: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES:
   A.   The license and registration fees herein provided for shall be as
follows:
      1.   For each female dog, six dollars ($6.00) per year;
      2.   For each male dog, four dollars ($4.00) per year;
      3.   For each spayed female dog, four dollars ($4.00) per year.
   B.   Any owner or person in possession of a dog may deduct one dollar
($1.00) from each fee as above set out if such registration and license is
secured on or before January 1 in the year for which the license is required.
All registrations and licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on December 31 of the year for which same were issued. (Ord. 420, 10-11-2010)
4-139: FAILURE TO KEEP DOG TAGGED:
It is unlawful for any person to fail to keep a license tag on his dog. (Ord.
268, 4-11-1983)
4-140: PROCLAMATION OF RABIES EPIDEMIC:
If at any time the city council finds that there is an epidemic of rabies among
the dogs within the city, or any part thereof, the mayor shall issue a
proclamation proclaiming the existence of an epidemic of rabies, which
proclamation shall be published two (2) times in a newspaper printed and
published in the city, and which proclamation shall fix the dates and duration
of the epidemic. During the time of the epidemic as above fixed, all dogs
within the city shall be confined on the premises of the owner or kept under
leash. The existence of an unusual number of rabid dogs in the city shall be
deemed an epidemic of rabies under this article, and the finding as to an
epidemic of rabies by the city council shall be prima facie evidence of that
fact. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-141: PROCEDURE WHEN RABIES SUSPECTED:
Every dog seized for having bitten a human being, or being suspected of having
rabies, or having been bitten by an animal having or suspected of having rabies
or other infectious disease associated therewith, shall be immediately picked
up by the chief of police or other persons designated by him and securely and
separately confined for observation for a period of ten (10) days. If within
the period the dog becomes rabid or shows symptoms or indications of rabies,
the chief of police or persons designated by him shall destroy the dog. If the
dog is not rabid and is fully vaccinated and licensed and is neither a nuisance
nor a vicious dog, it shall be surrendered to the owner on demand after the
expiration of the ten (10) day period and upon paying the impounding fee as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-142: AUTHORITY TO SEIZE, IMPOUND VIOLATORS:
It is the duty of the chief of police or persons authorized by him, to seize
and impound, for the times and under the conditions hereinafter stated, every
abandoned dog, every vicious dog, every rabies suspected dog, every dog which
is a nuisance as hereinafter provided, and every dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, which is found running at large upon the streets, alleys or public
places, or upon private premises not under the control of the owner of such
dog, and every dog the keeping or harboring of which is declared to be an
offense. The costs of such seizure or impoundment shall be assessed as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-143: VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to harbor, keep or have possession of any
"vicious dog" as herein defined. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-144: WHEN DOG CONSTITUTES A NUISANCE:
Any dog which scratches or digs into any flower bed, garden, tilled soil,
vines, shrubbery or small plants, and in so doing injures the same, or which
habitually prowls around or over any premises, not the property of its owner,
to the annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises, or which overturns
any garbage can or other vessel for waste products or scatters the contents of
same, or which chases or kills any chicken or other domestic fowl, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-145: NUISANCE DOGS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to harbor, keep or have possession of any dog
which is a "nuisance" as herein defined. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-146: PROCEDURE FOR VICIOUS DOGS:
It is the duty of the chief of police or persons authorized by him, on their
own initiative or upon the verified complaint of any citizen, to seize and
impound any dog found by them to be vicious and in such event to cause
proceedings to be instituted in the municipal court against the owner of such
dog for the violation of this article. It is also the duty of the chief of
police, upon being notified that charges of harboring a vicious dog are pending
against any person in the municipal court, to seize and impound the dog
described in such proceedings. If such seized and impounded dog shall have
bitten a human being two (2) or more times before such seizure or impounding,
then the dog shall be destroyed as though it were a rabid dog. If the Court
fails to find that the dog so seized and impounded is a vicious dog, then the
Court shall order and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause a
surrender and return of the dog to the owner thereof. In the event that the dog
is found by the Court to be a vicious dog, the Court may order the Chief of
Police or person designated by him to destroy the vicious dog, or to otherwise
dispose of the dog, and the costs for impounding the dog shall be charged
against the owner as costs of court in the proceedings. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-147: PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCE DOGS:
It is the duty of the Chief of Police or persons designated by him, upon being
notified that any person claiming that a dog is a "nuisance" within the meaning
of this Article has filed a verified complaint alleging that such dog is a
"nuisance" as herein defined, to seize and impound the dog therein described.
If the Court finds that no nuisance exists, it shall order the dog to be
surrendered to the owner or owners thereof. If the Court finds that the
nuisance exists, it may order the dog destroyed as in the case of a vicious
dog, or otherwise dispose of the dog. However, if the owner of such dog gives a
good and sufficient bond in the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) with
a surety to be approved by the Judge of the Municipal Court conditioned that
such owner shall abate and prevent such nuisance the Court shall order the
return of such dog to the owner thereof upon payment of the impounding fees
herein specified. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit any dog
to run or be at large except as permitted under the City ordinances. No such
dog shall be returned to the owner if the same is a vicious dog or in any event
unless the same is vaccinated, registered and licensed as required by this
Article. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-148: RECLAIMING DOGS:
   A.   No person shall be entitled to reclaim any dog found to be a nuisance
except as herein provided, nor shall any person be entitled to reclaim any dog
found to be rabid or vicious. The owner may reclaim any other dog seized under
the terms of this Chapter within the times and under the conditions stated
herein. After the expiration of the ten (10) day term as to every dog held
under observation and not showing symptoms of rabies, and as to every other dog
within forty eight (48) hours from the time of seizure, the owner may reclaim
any dog seized hereunder by submitting proof, satisfactory to the Chief of
Police or persons designated by him of his ownership of such dog and by paying
any license fees then due for the current year in addition to any applicable
impounding fee for any dog plus the costs of providing care and maintenance of
the dog for each day since the seizure thereof. In the event the dog reclaimed
has not been vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the terms of this
Article, the person reclaiming it must have the dog properly vaccinated and
submit proof of such vaccination to the Chief of Police or persons designated
by him. Failure to submit such proof within three (3) days after reclaiming the
dog will constitute a violation of this Article.
   B.   No dog shall be released without satisfactory proof of ownership and
without payment of the charges herein prescribed, nor shall the payment thereof
constitute any defense in any prosecution that may be instituted for violation
of the terms of this Article.
   C.   No poundage shall be charged for any licensed dog surrendered to the
owner on acquittal or dismissal of the charges of harboring such dog as a
nuisance or as a vicious dog. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-149: UNRECLAIMED DOGS:
At the expiration of the time within which the owner may reclaim any dog seized
under the provisions of this Article, it is the duty of the Humane Society,
Chief of Police or any other person designated by him, to destroy or otherwise
dispose of any dog not then reclaimed, and cause the body thereof to be
disposed of. If in the judgment and discretion of the Humane Society, Chief of
Police or officer designated by him, the unreclaimed animal should not be
destroyed, then the Humane Society or Chief of Police may, after the time for
reclaiming such dog has expired, sell and dispose of the dog for a sum equal to
the total poundage plus any license or registration fees then due. Before
selling any dog in this manner, all dogs must be vaccinated for rabies. (Ord.
268, 4-11-1983)
ARTICLE D. CATS
4-150: VACCINATION REQUIRED:
The owner of any cat shall have the cat vaccinated against rabies by a
veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize cats every calendar
year before May 1 thereof, or before the cat is six (6) months old. The
veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize cats vaccinating
the cat shall furnish the owner a certificate of vaccination and a tag will be
worn by the cat. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-151: ISOLATION, WHEN:
The Chief of Police may require or cause any cat which he has reason to believe
may be infected with rabies to be confined in accordance with Section
4-141 of this Chapter. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-152: RELEASE FROM POUND:
Whenever a cat is impounded because the same is a "nuisance" as defined in
Section
4-102 of this Chapter or because it is suspected of rabies, the cat shall not
be released to the owner or person making claim thereto until the Chief of
Police or his designated assistant holding the cat shall be furnished with a
certificate of a veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize
cats showing that the cat has been immunized against rabies during the calendar
year, and that any applicable impounding fee for any cat plus the cost for
providing care and maintenance of the cat for each day since the seizure
thereof has been paid. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
ARTICLE E. IMPOUNDMENT
4-160: STOCK POUND MASTER IN CHARGE OF IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
   A.   The stock pound master, appointed by the City Manager or by contract
approved by Council and under administrative control and supervision of the
Chief of Police, is authorized as the keeper of the pound, pen, building,
enclosure or other place used and occupied for the impounding of animals.
   B.   The pound master also shall provide suitable and necessary sustenance
for the animals confined. The cost of providing the sustenance shall be paid to
the stock pound master before any animal is released by him. (Ord. 268, 4-11-
1983)
4-161: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS BY PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Any animal taken into custody and impounded may not be advertised for
public sale by the stock pound master until the expiration of five (5) days
from the time of impounding.
   B.   The stock pound master, under supervision and control of the Chief of
Police, shall personally attend to the selling of all animals and shall give
five (5) days' notice of the time and place of any sale by causing written
notice thereof to be posted in three (3) public places in the City, giving a
description of the property to be sold. The excess of monies arising from the
sale after deducting the costs, charges and expenses allowed by Section 4-163
of this Article shall be paid into the City Treasury. Upon payment, the stock
pound master shall make duplicate receipts, one of which he shall file with the
City Clerk. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-162: NOTICE OF SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Prior to the public sale of impounded animals as provided in this
Article, the pound master shall post notice to read as follows:
   NOTICE OF SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS
Notice is hereby given that the following animals were found running at large
contrary to the provisions of the ordinances of the City of Prague, and have
been taken up and impounded in the stock pound of the city.
Unless redeemed within five (5) days of the date of this notice the animals
shall be sold at public auction for cash to the highest bidder at the city
stock pound.
                   at the hour of
                   o'clock on
         day of              , 19     .
Such animals are described as follows:
                                                                                         .
DATED at Prague, Oklahoma, this       day of         , 19     .
                                   
   Stock Pound Master of
   the City of Prague
   B.   If the owner of the impounded animal is known, a copy of the notice
shall be served on him by delivering the copy to the owner or by leaving a copy
at his residence with some member of his family over the age of fourteen (14)
years. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-163: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   If the owner of any animal applies to and pays the stock poundmaster
his fees and charges at any time before the sale of his animal, the stock
poundmaster shall release the animal.
   B.   If the owner of any animal applies to the stock poundmaster after the
animal has been sold and proves his ownership thereof to the satisfaction of
the poundmaster before payment into the city treasury, the poundmaster shall
pay the balance due from the sale of the animal to the applicant, and take his
receipt therefor.
   C.   If the owner of any animal applies to the poundmaster after payment
into the city treasury and proves his ownership thereof to the poundmaster's
satisfaction, then a warrant shall be drawn upon the treasurer in favor of the
claimant for the amount so certified by the poundmaster. The clerk shall file
and preserve the certificate by the poundmaster, with claimant's receipt in
full endorsed thereon. If the owner fails to appear within ninety (90) days
from the date of the sale and apply for the amount deposited in the city
treasury, it shall be forfeited to the city. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-164: STOCK POUNDMASTER; MONTHLY REPORT:
Upon the tenth day of every month the stock poundmaster shall account to the
city treasurer for all money received by him by virtue of his office for the
preceding month and shall render the chief of police a full statement of all
animals received into the pound during the preceding month, describing the
animals with the name of the owner, if known, the date all redeemed animals
were received, the sale or redemption of those sold and the time of sale. Forms
for such reports shall be prescribed by the city clerk. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-165: POUND CHARGES ALLOWED:
   A.   The following charges shall be allowed for taking animals into custody
under this chapter:
      1.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) for impounding such animal;
      2.   Five dollars ($5.00) per day for providing protection and sustenance
for each animal; and
      3.   For posting notice of sale for each animal, three dollars ($3.00).
(Ord. 420, 10-11-2010)
4-166: OBSTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No person shall hinder, delay, or obstruct any person duly authorized to take
animals into custody or to the city pound during the performance of his
official duties. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-167: BREAKING OPEN POUND PROHIBITED:
No person shall break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid or
assist in, or counsel, or advise the breaking open of any city pound. (Ord.
268, 4-11-1983)
ARTICLE F. OTHER PROVISIONS; PENALTY
4-170: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Cruelly beat or otherwise cruelly maltreat any animal in this city;
      2.   Wilfully and wantonly kill, maim, wound, poison or disfigure any
horse, ass, mule, cattle, sheep, goat, swine, dog or other animal or bird, or
beast of any kind;
      3.   Mutilate, cruelly kill, overdrive, overload, unnecessarily confine,
or in any manner oppress an animal;
      4.   Unnecessarily fail to provide an animal with proper food, drink or
shelter;
      5.   Drive, work or use the animal if such animal is maimed, wounded,
sick, lame or otherwise unfit for labor;
      6.   Wilfully abandon an animal to die;
      7.   Carry, or cause the same to be carried, hauled or forced along in a
cruel or inhumane manner; or
      8.   Leave any animal tied up or confined anywhere, day or night, for
more than six (6) hours at a time, exposed to inclement weather or without
properly feeding, watering and caring for the same.
   B.   This Section shall not be construed as preventing police or other
persons from killing animals when lawfully entitled to do so. (Ord. 268, 4-11-
1983)
4-171: BIRD SANCTUARY DESIGNATED:
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the City is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-172: ACTS PROHIBITED, EXCEPTION:
   A.   It is unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot, or molest in
any manner any bird or wildfowl, or to rob wild birds' nests or wildfowls'
nests. However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in
such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace
to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the
City, then the health authorities shall meet with representatives of the
Audubon Society, bird club, garden club or Humane Society, or as many of the
clubs as are found to exist in the City, after having given at least three (3)
days' actual notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives
of the clubs.
   B.   If as a result of the meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to
abate such nuisance, then such birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in
such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the
supervision of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-173: KEEPING DANGEROUS AND DISEASED ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his property any vicious or
dangerous animal.
   B.   No person shall keep any animal which is known or believed by him to be
infected with a dangerous or communicable disease.
   C.   Subsections A and B of this Section shall not apply to any veterinary
hospital, zoo, ranch or other place where such animals are adequately cared for
with due regard to public health and safety. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-174: DEAD ANIMALS; REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or keeper, other than a veterinarian, of any animal which dies within
the City limits, or the owner, occupant or person having control of any
premises within the City on which any animal dies or is found dead, shall
provide for the immediate removal of the animal. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-175: DUTY TO REPORT INJURY OR DEATH OF ANIMALS HIT BY AUTOMOBILES:
Every person who inadvertently, wilfully or negligently strikes any animal with
an automobile and injures or kills such animal shall notify the Police
Department after the occurrence giving the time and place of the injury or
death, together with a description of the animal, and the name and address of
the person making the report. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
4-176: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof be fined as provided
in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 268, 4-11-1983)
PART 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
Building Regulations   0
Building Code And Permits   1
Plumbing Code   2
Electrical Code   3
Fuel Gas Code   4
Liquefied Petroleum Gas   5
Neighborhood Facilities Program   6
Fair Housing   7
Residential Code   8
Mechanical Code   9
Penalty And Judicial Relief   10
Property Maintenance Code   11
CHAPTER 0
BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-001: Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs
5-001: SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    SWIMMING POOL: Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over eighteen inches (18") deep. This includes inground,
aboveground and on ground swimming pools, tanks, hot tubs and spas.
   B.   Barrier: All private outdoor swimming pools or tanks shall be enclosed
by a substantial fence, or barrier, not less than forty eight inches (48") in
height, so constructed as to prevent, within reason, any person from gaining
access beneath or through the fence, and which shall have a similarly
substantial gate of the same height as the fence, with facilities for locking
the gate when pool is unguarded. Openings in the barrier shall not allow for
the passage of a four inch (4") diameter sphere through the openings.
   C.   Gates: Whenever a gate is contained in any enclosure required under
this section, the gate shall be kept closed and latched at all times except
when open for the purpose of ingress and egress.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as provided for in
section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 451, 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND PERMITS
SECTION:
5-101: Adoption Of Building Code
5-101.1: Additional Building Regulations
5-102: Building Inspector; Duties
5-103: Other City Officials' Code Responsibilities
5-104: Permit Required Within City
5-105: Application For Permits
5-106: When Permit Secured
5-107: Building Permit Fees
5-108: Fire Limits Defined
5-109: Penalty
5-101: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations,
in the city of Prague, for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, including permits and penalties, that certain building code known
as the international building code, being particularly the current edition
thereof, and each subsequent edition upon approval and adoption by the state of
Oklahoma, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended; and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein. If any provisions of current ordinances of the city are in
conflict with the provisions of the building code, except as provided in this
chapter, the provisions of the building code shall prevail. (Ord. 388, 11-14-
2005)
5-101.1: ADDITIONAL BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   All new residential structures built within the city of Prague, will be
required to have a covered porch, covered front entry inset or a combination of
both.
   B.   The minimum size required is recommended to be fifteen (15) square feet
for an inset and thirty (30) square feet for a porch or combination of porch
and inset.
   C.   The construction of the covering is to be of like construction as the
house. (Ord. 440, 4-8-2013)
5-102: BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES:
   A.   There shall be a department of building inspection, the head of which
is the building official. The city manager shall be ex officio building
official unless he appoints another to be building official. The building
official, otherwise sometimes called the building inspector, is an officer of
the city, and has supervision of the building inspection department, including
the electrical inspector, the plumbing inspector, or any other inspector and
assistant inspectors appointed in the department.
   B.   The building inspection department shall inspect buildings, plumbing,
electrical installations, and other installations as may be provided by law or
ordinance.
   C.   Whenever reference is made to the duties of the building official or
inspector in the building code, it shall mean the city inspector of the city.
The city inspector shall be the responsible official for enforcing the
provisions of the building code. (Prior code §§ 1-26, 1-27, 4-4)
5-103: OTHER CITY OFFICIALS' CODE RESPONSIBILITIES:
When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in any of the
codes adopted by this part, the designated official of the city who has duties
corresponding to those of the named official in the code shall be deemed to be
the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of the code is
concerned. The terms "electrical inspector", "plumbing inspector", and "gas
inspector", whenever used in this code shall each refer to the building
inspector unless a separate inspector has been appointed. (Prior code § 4-4)
5-104: PERMIT REQUIRED WITHIN CITY:
Before proceeding with the excavation for the erection of, or the repair,
enlargement or removal of any building or structure within the city, a permit
must first be obtained from the building department. If the operations allowed
under such permit are not begun within six (6) months thereafter, such permit
shall become null and void, and if such work is resumed a new permit must be
obtained and the regular fee incident thereto shall be collected. The
responsibility of obtaining such permit shall be shared jointly with the owner
of the premises, his agent, and the builder or contractor erecting the
improvement, and either or both are subject to the penalty imposed upon failure
to obtain such permit. (1983 Code)
5-105: APPLICATION FOR PERMITS:
All applications for permits shall be in writing upon an official blank form
supplied by the City inspector. (1983 Code)
5-106: WHEN PERMIT SECURED:
All building permits will be purchased before new construction is started. Such
building permits will not be issued until the new water meter set has been
arranged for, or the City inspector approves such meter on the construction
location. (1983 Code)
5-107: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
The following fees shall be charged for building and alterations:
   A.   New Residential One And Two Family Dwellings: (These permits are all-
inclusive as to include electrical, plumbing and mechanical permits.)
 
Square Feet Of Living Area Fee
   Up to 1,500          $130.00
   1,501 to 2,500       180.00
   Over 2,501           210.00
 
   B.   New Commercial Buildings, Additions Or Accessory Buildings Figured By
Square Foot:
 
Number Of Square Feet Fee
   0 - 200         $25.00 + $0.10 per square foot
   201 - 900       $50.00 + $0.10 per square foot
   901 - 2,000     $75.00 + $0.10 per square foot
   2,001 - 5,000   $100.00 + $0.10 per square foot
   5,001 - 10,000  $150.00 + $0.10 per square foot
   10,001 and over $200.00 + $0.10 per square foot
 
   C.   Plan Review Fee: There shall be implemented a plan review fee of twenty
five percent (25%) of the permit cost. This fee shall be paid at the time of
permit application and plan submittal. If a permit is issued, this fee will be
applied towards the final permit cost. (Ord. 461, 1-11-2016)
5-108: FIRE LIMITS DEFINED:
The following shall be, and are hereby declared to be the fire limits in the
City: Beginning at the southwest corner of block forty (40) in the city,
running thence east one-half (1/2) block, thence north three (3) blocks, thence
west one-half (1/2) block, thence north one block to the intersection of
Twelfth Street, thence west one block, to the alley running north and south
through Block Twelve (12), thence south one block, thence west one-half (1/2)
block, thence south three (3) blocks, thence east one-half (1/2) block, thence
south one block, to the intersection of Seventh Street, thence east to the
place of beginning.
(Prior Code § 4-5)
5-109: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
or part shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
5-201: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
5-202: Additions, Insertions And Changes To Plumbing Code (Rep. by Ord. 393,
11-14-2005)
5-203: Fee Schedule
5-204: Permits
5-205: Issuance Of Permits, Required
5-206: Plumbers' Registration; Fees
5-207: Plumbing Contractor's Bond
5-201: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems within the city of Prague, that
certain code known as the international plumbing code, being particularly the
latest edition thereof and each subsequent edition upon approval and adoption
by the state of Oklahoma, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified, or amended by this code. The international plumbing code is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. If any
provisions of current ordinances of the city are in conflict with the
provisions of the plumbing code, except as provided in this chapter, the
provisions of the plumbing code shall prevail. (Ord. 393, 11-14-2005)
5-202: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE:
(Rep. by Ord. 393, 11-14-2005)
5-203: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   New home construction: Included in building permit.
      2.   Addition/remodel: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
   B.   Commercial:
      1.   New construction:
         a.   Up to twenty five (25) DFU: Twenty dollars ($20.00);
         b.   Additional DFUs per DFU: One dollar ($1.00).
      2.   Addition/remodel: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
   C.   All required permits will be obtained and paid for before the work
commences. Permit fee covers all required inspections and one reinspection if
needed. (Ord. 412, 5-11-2009)
5-204: PERMITS:
No plumbing shall be installed, enlarged or altered before first securing a
plumbing permit from the city clerk. (Ord. 225, 9-18-1978; amd. Ord. 412, 5-11-
2009)
5-205: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, REQUIRED:
   A.   The contracting plumber shall pay, at the time application is made for
permit, the permit fee. The fee shall be paid before permit shall be issued.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to make or cause to
be made any connections with any main or lateral sewers of the sewer system of
this city without first having obtained a permit from the plumbing inspector
for the particular job to be installed. (1983 Code)
5-206: PLUMBERS' REGISTRATION; FEES 1 :
   A.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation
of a journeyman plumber, a plumbing contractor, or a plumber's apprentice
unless he is registered as such with the city clerk and licensed as such with
the state department of health. The registration fees to be paid to the city
clerk are as follows:
      1.   For annual registration as a plumbing contractor, twenty five
dollars ($25.00);
      2.   For annual registration as a journeyman plumber, ten dollars
($10.00); and
      3.   For annual registration as a plumber's apprentice, five dollars
($5.00).
   B.   The license shall expire on April 30 of each year and may be renewed
annually upon payment of the fee. A certificate as plumbing contractor or as a
journeyman plumber shall be valid only when a bond as prescribed in this
chapter is in effect. (Ord. 225, 9-18-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS § 1001 et seq.
5-207: PLUMBING CONTRACTOR'S BOND:
   A.   All persons licensed as plumbing contractors must post a bond in the
sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), executed by a surety company
authorized to transact business in this state. The bond shall be payable to the
city and shall be conditioned that the principal will restore with the same
material and in the same manner all streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other
public places in any way disturbed by him, his agents, subcontractors or
employees. The bond shall be conditioned further that the principal shall
indemnify and save blameless the city from any and all loss, expense, cost,
damage, action or liability of any kind whatever, including reasonable attorney
fees which the city may accrue against it or be recovered from the city by
reason of:
      1.   Any loss, damage, injury sustained, suffered or incurred by any
person on account of or by reason of the doing of any plumbing, as defined
herein, by the principal, his agent, subcontractors or employees, in the use of
the streets, alleys and public property of the city; or in making any
connections, alterations, repairs, extensions or renovations to any pipe or
pipes, or mains or connections belonging to the water or sewer system of the
city; or
      2.   The neglect, failure or refusal of the principal, his agents,
subcontractors or employees, to erect, place and maintain proper and adequate
safety devices, warning signals, lights and barricades about such work until
such time as the city building inspector is notified that the work is fully
completed.
   B.   The bond shall be conditioned further that the principal will comply
with the rules, regulations and ordinances relating to the turning on or off of
the city water supply. Such bond shall be conditioned further that the
principal shall do all plumbing, as defined herein, in strict accordance with
the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state, and in a good and
workmanlike manner. The bond shall run for one year and shall be renewed at its
expiration. No permit shall be issued to any plumbing contractor until the bond
provided in this section shall have been filed. (Ord. 225, 9-19-1978)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-301: Definitions
5-302: National Electrical Code Adopted
5-303: Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., Standards
5-304: Electrical Inspector; Office Created
5-305: Inspector May Make Special Rulings
5-306: Wiring In City
5-307: Permit Required For Electrical Installation; Exceptions; Fee
5-308: Public Utilities Compliance
5-309: Electrical Inspector To Inspect All Electrical Installations
5-310: Installation Not To Be Concealed Until Approved
5-311: Work "Roughed In"
5-312: Inspection Of New Work "Roughed In"
5-313: Premises Not To Be Connected Until Installation Is Approved
5-314: Annual Inspection In Fire Zone; Corrections
5-315: Inspector May Enter Buildings, Decisions Final
5-316: Responsibility For Damages
5-317: Electricians; Registration Required
5-318: Bond For Electrical Contractors
5-319: Registration Or Bond, When Not Required
5-320: Revocation Of Registration
5-321: Electrical Board Created
5-301: DEFINITIONS:
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: As used in this Chapter, refers to electrical conductors,
metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus, and any
electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to be installed within
or on any building or structure for transmitting electrical current for
electric light, heat or power.
ELECTRICAL WIRING: The installation of electrical equipment, lighting fixtures
or installing electrical apparatus of any kind or nature or description to be
connected to light, heat or power service. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-17; amd. Ord.
255, 11-16-1981)
5-302: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED 1 :
All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter, with the statutes of the State and any orders,
rules, and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved
electrical standards for safety to persons and property. Where no specific
standards are prescribed by this Code or by the statutes of the State or by any
orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, conformity with the
regulations set forth in the current issue of the National Electrical Code as
approved by the American Standards Association, shall be prima facie evidence
of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to property. All
standards adopted by the City prior to February 11, 1981, with regard to
installation of electrical equipment inside the fire zone is hereby required
for all areas outside of the fire zone dealing and with regard to public places
or places where persons might gather or congregate. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-18;
amd. Ord. 249, 2-17-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS §§ 1680–1696.
5-303: UNDERWRITERS' LABORATORIES, INC., STANDARDS:
All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter, the statutes of the State and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards
for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this Chapter, by a statute of
the State or any orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-19)
5-304: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED:
   A.   There shall be an Electrical Inspector who may be the Building Official
appointed in this Code. The Electrical Inspector shall be a person who has had
practical experience in inside electrical construction and who is familiar with
the national electrical code and the application of the "code" rulings.
   B.   The electrical inspector shall furnish the city with a surety bond in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), as a guarantee of the faithful
performance of his duties, and all monies collected will be deposited with the
city clerk.
   C.   The electrical inspector shall be appointed by the city manager and
shall receive such salary as the city manager may determine, and shall hold
office until his successor has been appointed. Until such time as a full time
electrical inspector is appointed, the Prague public works authority
superintendent shall act as electrical inspector, and shall be vested with all
the power conferred upon the electrical inspector by this chapter. (Prior code
§ 4-20; amd. Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-305: INSPECTOR MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS:
The electrical inspector with the approval of the electrical board created in
this chapter, shall have the authority to make special rulings, when
circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property and the
improvement of electrical installations, but in all cases persons engaged in
the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical license must
be notified by letter of these decisions. (Prior code § 4-21; amd. Ord. 255,
11-16-1981)
5-306: WIRING IN CITY:
All commercial wiring hereafter done in the city limits must be installed in
rigid galvanized conduit, thin wall EMT or metal moulding. Armored cable or
Greenfield is to be used only when in the judgment of the electrical inspector
it is not practicable to install rigid conduit or any commercial or industrial
building PVC plastic is recognized under concrete. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-307: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION; EXCEPTIONS; FEE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures, equipment or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the
corporate limits of this city or make extensions to any existing electrical
installations without first securing a permit from the electrical inspector.
   B.   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the electrical
inspector; and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other
data as may be necessary to determine whether the permit shall be issued.
   C.   It is the duty of the electrical inspector or city clerk to issue all
permits, and the electrical inspector to make inspection of all work for which
permit has been issued within forty eight (48) hours after having been notified
that work is ready for inspection (Sundays and holidays not included). For the
issuing of permits the electrical inspector shall be in his office between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., and in case of
absence from his office the electrical inspector may with the consent of the
mayor appoint a competent electrician to issue permits and make inspections
pending his return. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
   D.   No permit shall be issued until the applicant shall have paid a permit
fee computed as follows:
1.  For roughing in of concealed knob and tube work No charge
    conduit metal moulding cleat or armored cable
2.  Outlets:                                         
   a. For first 10 outlets                         $ 1.00
   b. For each additional outlet included          0.05
3.  Fixtures:                                        
   a. For first 10 fixtures, fans or droplights    1.00
   b. For each additional fixture                  0.05
4.  Signs:                                           
   a. Less than 5 lights                           0.25
   b. 5 to 10 lights                               0.50
   c. 10 to 20 lights                              0.75
   d. 20 to 50 lights                              1.00
   e. All signs containing more than 50 lights     2.00
5.  Motors:                                          
   a. Motors less than 1 hp                        0.50
   b. 3 to 5 hp, inclusive                         1.00
   c. All motors above 5 hp                        1.50
6.  Meter loop and 7 openings                       1.75
7.  Additional heating and cooling system           2.00
8.  Miscellaneous (signs)                           1.75
9.  1/4 to 3 hp                                     1.00
10. 3 to 5 hp                                       1.50
11. Over 5 hp                                       2.00
12. Construction:                                    
   a. Residential:                                  
     (1) New home construction                    Included in building permit
     (2) Addition/remodel                         $20.00
   b. Commercial:                                   
     (1) New construction:                         
          200 amp base fee                   50.00
          Each additional 100 amps           20.00
     (2) Addition/remodel                         20.00
 
(Ord. 255, 11-16-1981; amd. Ord. 412, 5-11-2009)
When an extension is made to old work, or when new work is finished complete
with fixtures for droplight or switch, necessitating but one inspection, charge
for outlet only. The above charges will be updated by the Prague public works
authority when circumstances warrant. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
   E.   All required permits will be obtained and paid for before the work
commences. Permit fee covers all required inspections and one reinspection if
needed. (Ord. 412, 5-11-2009)
5-308: PUBLIC UTILITIES COMPLIANCE:
It is unlawful for any public service corporation, individual, light, heat or
power company to connect, or cause to be connected any service, or building for
the supply of electrical current for light, heat or power, until they have been
notified by the electrical inspector that electric work has been inspected and
approved and is ready for electric service. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-309: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR TO INSPECT ALL ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
The electrical inspector shall have the power to inspect all electrical
equipment installed within the city. (1983 Code)
5-310: INSTALLATION NOT TO BE CONCEALED UNTIL APPROVED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual to
conceal or cause to be concealed, any electrical equipment, used for electric
light, heat or power, until it is known by the person that the installation has
been approved by the electrical inspector; and a tag in the switch cabinet, or
attached to the service equipment properly signed and dated, so stating, will
be sufficient notice. (Prior code § 4-21; amd. Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-311: WORK "ROUGHED IN":
New or old work "roughed in" shall include all electrical equipment to make the
installation complete, be free from unintentional grounds, with joints properly
made up, ready for attachment of fixtures, droplights and appliances. (Prior
code § 4-23)
5-312: INSPECTION OF NEW WORK "ROUGHED IN":
After making inspection of new work "roughed in", the electrical inspector
shall leave a tag or notice in the switch cabinet or attached to the service
equipment, plainly indicating whether the work has been approved and is ready
to conceal, or that the installation is not standard and must not be covered
until approved by the electrical inspector. (Prior code § 4-24; amd. Ord. 255,
11-16-1981)
5-313: PREMISES NOT TO BE CONNECTED UNTIL INSTALLATION IS APPROVED:
It is unlawful for any public service corporation, individual, light, heat or
power company to connect, or cause to be connected any service or building, for
the supply of electric current for light, heat or power, until they have been
notified by the electrical inspector that electric work has been inspected and
approved and is ready for electric service. (Prior code § 4-25)
5-314: ANNUAL INSPECTION IN FIRE ZONE; CORRECTIONS:
The electrical inspector shall have the power to make an annual inspection of
all electrical equipment in the fire zone of the city. When any electrical
installations are found to be in an unsafe or hazardous condition, the
electrical inspector shall notify the person, firm or corporation where such
electrical conditions exist to correct same and place in a safe condition. Any
person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to make correction of hazardous
or unsafe electrical installations, after having been notified by the
electrical inspector, within a designated time to be determined by the
electrical inspector, shall be fined according to the provisions of this
chapter. Each day after the expiration of the time designated to make
corrections shall constitute a separate offense. When hazardous or unsafe
electrical conditions exist and any person, firm or corporation fails to make
corrections after having been notified, the Electrical Inspector shall have the
authority to discontinue the electrical service. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-26)
5-315: INSPECTOR MAY ENTER BUILDINGS, DECISIONS FINAL:
The Electrical Inspector, while in the discharge of his official duty, shall
have the authority to enter any building or premises at any reasonable hour,
for the purpose of making any electrical inspection, reinspection, or test of
the electrical equipment contained therein or its installation. Any person
interfering with the Electrical Inspector shall be fined as provided for in
this Chapter. The Electrical Inspector shall be the judge of what constitutes
the safe installation of electrical conductors and his decision shall be final
and binding. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-27; amd. Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-316: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed to affect the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling, or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property
caused by any defect therein, nor shall the City or any officer or employee of
the City, be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or
reinspection as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of
any equipment authorized herein. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-28)
5-317: ELECTRICIANS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, or individuals engaging
in or hereafter engaging in the business of installing electrical fixtures,
wiring or apparatus in or on any building within the corporate limits of the
City shall first procure from the City Clerk a registration certificate and
upon the payment of twenty five dollars ($25.00) such certificate shall entitle
the holder to install electrical conductors, fixtures or appliances in or on
any buildings within the corporate limits of the City for a period of one year
or until January 1 the following year in which license is issued, after all
other provisions have been complied with.
      1.   Electrical Contractor's Registration: Applicants for electrical
contractor's registration certificate which passes as a valid State license may
be issued an electrical contractor's certificate for the usual license fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) and posting bond as required in this Chapter;
      2.   Journeyman Electrician: A journeyman electrician who possesses a
valid State license shall pay one dollar ($1.00) for a permit card which shall
enable him to work under the electrical contractor certificate; and
      3.   Electrician's Helper: One who is designated as an electrician's
helper does not require a card.
   B.   There must be a registered electrician on any and all jobs at all
times.
   C.   Any electrical contractor or journeyman electrician registered
hereunder shall be entitled to reregistration on each succeeding year hereafter
upon payment of this fee and provision of the bond herein provided. (Ord. 255,
11-16-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS §§ 1680–1696.
5-318: BOND FOR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Every person receiving a registration certificate as an electrical
contractor shall file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), executed with a surety company authorized to do business
in the State, and conditioned that:
      1.   The principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances, and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the City relating to electrical installations and in a
workmanlike manner;
      2.   The principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom the
work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship
or inferior or nonstandard material; the principal is liable for the correction
and any additional cost arising from the specified causes; and
      3.   The City will be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and
all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his work as an
electrical contractor.
   B.   The bond must be approved by the Electrical Inspector. No certificate
shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been filed and
approved. Any such license issued shall be valid only while the bond is in
effect. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
5-319: REGISTRATION OR BOND, WHEN NOT REQUIRED:
For the installing of bell, telephone, or signal systems not using over 12
volts, no registration or bond will be required but the installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the City. (Ord.
255, 11-16-1981)
5-320: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the Council may revoke the
registration of an electrical contractor, an apprentice electrician, or a
journeyman electrician for any of the following causes:
      1.   Serious or repeated violations of the laws, ordinances or other
regulations relating to electrical installations;
      2.   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the electrical trade or
business;
      3.   Poor workmanship or service; or
      4.   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures or equipment.
   B.   A request that the registration be revoked may be presented to the
Council by the Electrical Inspector or by any aggrieved person. (1983 Code)
5-321: ELECTRICAL BOARD CREATED:
   A.   An Electrical Board is hereby created and established, which Board
shall consist of three (3) members to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the City Council. Two (2) of the members of the Board shall be licensed
electrical contractors. It is the duty of this Electrical Board to:
      1.   Work with the Electrical Inspector; and
      2.   Hold meetings and pass on and settle any disputes that may arise
pertaining to the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   The members of the Electrical Board shall each serve for a term of two
(2) years, or at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. The Electrical
Inspector shall be an ex officio member of the Board but without the privilege
of having a vote on the decisions made by the Board. (Ord. 255, 11-16-1981)
CHAPTER 4
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
5-401: Adoption Of Fuel Gas Code
5-401: ADOPTION OF FUEL GAS CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of governing
installation of fuel gas piping systems within the city of Prague, that certain
code known as the international fuel gas code, being particularly the latest
edition thereof and each subsequent edition upon approval and adoption by the
state of Oklahoma, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended by this code. The international fuel gas code is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. If any
provisions of current ordinances of the city are in conflict with the
provisions of the fuel gas code, except as provided in this chapter, the
provisions of the fuel gas code shall prevail. (Ord. 391, 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 5
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
5-501: Persons Must Comply With State Law
5-502: Inspection; Fee
5-501: PERSONS MUST COMPLY WITH STATE LAW 1 :
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture, fabricate,
assemble, install, or repair any system, container, apparatus, or appliance to
be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing, or utilization of
liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle, or store such gas, unless
such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be
required by State law. Pamphlet number 58 of the National Fire Protection
Association, entitled Liquefied Petroleum Gases, Storage and Handling, also
adopted by the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect
within this City; and any violation of these rules and regulations shall be
deemed a violation of the ordinances of the City and shall be punished
accordingly. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-15, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. 52 OS § 420.1 et seq.
5-502: INSPECTION; FEE:
All liquefied petroleum installations within the City, upon completion, shall
be inspected by the Plumbing Inspector, or by the Gas Inspector if a gas
inspector is appointed, and shall not be used by the occupants until approved
by the Inspector as complying with this Chapter and the rules and regulations
adopted thereby. The fee for such inspection shall be one dollar ($1.00).
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-16)
CHAPTER 6
NEIGHBORHOOD FACILITIES PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-601: Program Established
5-602: City To Provide Janitor Service
5-603: Compliance With Regulations
5-601: PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
The City sponsors a Neighborhood Facilities Program in connection with the
neighborhood facilities building that is a part of a public housing project.
That facility has by resolution volunteered their help and assistance. (Prior
Code, Sec. 10-9)
5-602: CITY TO PROVIDE JANITOR SERVICE:
The City agrees to provide janitor service for the building which houses the
Neighborhood Facilities Program, and agrees to pay a pro rata share of the
utilities for such building. (Prior Code, Sec. 10-10)
5-603: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The City further agrees to comply with the following provisions: This provision
is included pursuant to requirements of Public Housing Administration and the
regulations of the Housing and Home Finance Agency under title VI of the Civil
Rights Acts of 1964, 24 CFR, subtitle A, part 1, section 1, 1 et seq., and the
obligation of the (contractor or other) to comply therewith inures to the
benefit of the United States, the Housing Administration, and the local
authority, any of which shall be entitled to invoke any remedies available by
law to redress any breach thereof or to compel compliance therewith by the
(contractor or other). (Prior Code, Sec. 10-11)
CHAPTER 7
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-701: Declaration Of Policy
5-702: Definitions
5-703: Interpretation And Effect
5-704: Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-705: Discrimination In Housing Financing
5-706: Discrimination In Providing Brokerage Service
5-707: Unlawful Intimidation
5-708: Exemptions And Exclusions
5-709: Violations
5-710: Enforcement
5-711: Complaints
5-712: Investigation And Conciliation
5-713: Penalty
5-701: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to bring about through fair,
orderly and lawful procedures, the opportunity of each person to obtain housing
without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical
or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood or age.
It is further declared that such policy is established upon a recognition of
the inalienable rights of each individual to obtain housing without regard to
race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, marital status, parenthood, age; and further that the denial of such
rights through considerations based on race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood, or
age is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
City and constitutes an unjust denial or deprivation of such inalienable rights
which is within the power and the proper responsibility of government to
prevent. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-702: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section unless the context requires
otherwise:
AGE: The calendar age of an individual eighteen (18) years of age or over.
CREED: Any set of principles, rules, opinions and precepts formally expressed
and seriously adhered to or maintained by a person.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Human Relations Department or authorized
assistant.
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act which is unlawful under this Chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more persons and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILY: A single individual or a group of individuals living together under one
common roof.
MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES: Functions such as, but not limited to, caring for one's
self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
learning and working.
MARITAL STATUS: An individual's status as a single, married, divorced, widowed
or separated person.
PARENTHOOD: A person's status as a parent or legal guardian of a child or
children under the age of eighteen (18).
PERSON: One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HANDICAP: Any physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT: Shall include:
A. Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
B. Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic
brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities.
SENIOR ADULT: A person fifty five (55) years of age or older.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord.
324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-703: INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT:
This Chapter shall in no way be interpreted as creating a judicial right or
remedy which is the same or substantially equivalent to the remedies provided
under title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, or the Federal
Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 USC 1691). All aggrieved parties shall retain
the rights granted to them by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as
amended, and the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act. In construing this
Chapter, it is the intent of the City Council that the courts shall be guided
by Federal Court interpretations of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968,
amended, and the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, where appropriate. (Ord.
324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-704: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
Except as exempted by Section
5-708 of this Chapter it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood, or
age.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of a sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood
or age.
   C.   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, marital status, parenthood, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, creed, religion,
sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood,
or age that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling
by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, creed,
religion, sex, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital status,
parenthood, or age. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-705: DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING FINANCING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other person whose business consists in whole or in part in the
making of commercial real estate loans to deny a loan or other financial
assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing,
constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling or to discriminate
against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms
or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because of the race,
sex, color, religion, national origin, physical or mental handicap, marital
status, parenthood, or age of prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants
of the dwelling or dwellings for which such loan or other financial assistance
is to be made or given. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-706: DISCRIMINATION IN PROVIDING BROKERAGE SERVICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deny another person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate
brokers' organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to
the business of selling and renting dwellings or to discriminate against
another person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or
participation on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood, or age. (Ord. 324-B,
10-16-1996)
5-707: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because such individual,
group, or business has complied with the provisions of this Chapter or has
exercised in good faith rights under this Chapter, or has enjoyed the benefits
of this Chapter, or because such individual, group, or business has made a
charge in good faith, testified in good faith or assisted in good faith in any
manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding hereunder or has made any
report to the Director. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-708: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that:
         a.   Such private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
single-family houses at any one time; and
         b.   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of the sale
or was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty four (24) month period; and
         c.   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on such person's behalf, under any express
or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or any portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; and
         d.   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent or salesman or of such facilities or services of any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, salesman, or person; and
         e.   The sale or rental is made without the publication, posting or
mailing of any advertisement or written notice in violation of this Chapter;
but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow
agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   B.   For the purposes of subsection A of this Section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
   C.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or a nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, marital status, parenthood, or age.
   D.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident of its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members, or from
giving preference to its members.
   E.   Nothing in this Chapter shall bar any person from owning and operating
a housing accommodation in which rooms are leased, subleased or rented only to
persons of the same sex, when such housing accommodation contains common
lavatory, kitchen or similar facilities available for the use of all persons
occupying such housing accommodation.
   F.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the sale, rental, lease or
occupancy of any dwelling designed and operated exclusively for senior adults
and their spouses, unless the sale, rental, lease or occupancy is further
restricted on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin,
physical or mental handicap and marital status.
   G.   Nothing in this Chapter shall bar a person who owns, operates or
controls rental dwellings whether located on the same property or on one or
more contiguous parcels for the rental or lease to tenants with a minor child
or children; provided however, in the event that said reserved area is
completely leased or rented, the person owning, operating or controlling said
rental dwelling may not refuse to rent or lease any other available dwelling to
the prospective tenant on the basis of the tenant's status as parent or any
other of the protected classifications set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 324-B,
10-16-1996)
5-709: VIOLATIONS:
No person shall violate any provision of this Chapter, or knowingly obstruct or
prevent compliance with this Chapter. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-710: ENFORCEMENT:
The Director of the Human Relations Department shall have the responsibility of
administering and implementing this Chapter. The Director may delegate the
authority to investigate and conciliate complaints to other designated City
employees. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-711: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "charging
party") may file a complaint with the Director. Such complaints shall be in
writing and shall identify the person alleged to have committed or alleged to
be committing discriminatory housing practice and shall state the facts upon
which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. The
Director shall prepare complaint forms and furnish them without charge to any
person upon request.
   B.   The Director shall receive and accept notification and referral
complaints from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development pursuant to the provisions of title VIII, Fair Housing Act of
1968, Public Law 90-284, and shall treat such complaints hereunder in the same
manner as complaints filed pursuant to subsection A of this Section.
   C.   All complaints shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days
following the occurrence of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon
the filing or referral of any complaint, the Director shall provide notice of
the complaint by furnishing a copy of such complaint to the persons named
therein (hereinafter referred to as the "respondent") who allegedly committed
or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory housing practice. The
respondent may file an answer to the complaint within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of the written complaint.
   D.   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an
officer authorized to administer oaths.
   E.   If at any time the Director shall receive or discover credible evidence
and shall have probable cause to believe that any person or persons have
committed a discriminatory housing practice as to which no complaint has been
filed or is about to be filed, the Director may prepare and file a complaint
upon his own motion and in his own name and such complaint shall thereinafter
be treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person aggrieved. (Ord.
324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-712: INVESTIGATION AND CONCILIATION:
   A.   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
Director shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the matter
stated in the complaint; provided, however, that before any charge becomes
accepted for investigative purposes, the Director or an investigator shall have
personally reviewed with the charging party the allegations contained therein
and shall have determined that said charge comes within the provisions of this
Chapter. In the event such review results in the determination that a
particular charge does not come within the provisions of this Chapter, the
charging party shall be given a clear and concise explanation of the reasons
why it does not.
   B.   If the Director determines that there is not probable cause to believe
that a particular alleged discriminatory housing practice has been committed,
the Director shall take no further action with respect to that alleged offense.
   C.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of compliance, the Director shall, if it appears that a discriminatory
housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur, attempt by informal
endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary discontinuance of the
discriminatory housing practice and to obtain adequate assurance of future
voluntary compliance with provisions of this Chapter. Nothing said or done in
the course of such informal endeavors may be made public by the Director, the
Commission, the investigator, the conciliator, the charging party, or the
respondent, or be used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding without the
written consent of all persons concerned.
   D.   Upon completion of an investigation where the Director has made a
determination that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred, if
the Director is unable to secure from the respondent an acceptable conciliation
agreement, then the Human Relations Commission of the City must, upon a
majority vote, refer the case to the City Attorney for prosecution in Municipal
Court or to other agencies as appropriate. With such recommendation of the
Director and the referral of the Human Relations Commission, the Director shall
refer his entire file to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall, after such
referral, make a determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of
such complaint in Municipal Court. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-1996)
5-713: PENALTY:
If a discriminatory housing practice is found to have in fact occurred and the
case has been referred to Municipal Court, the respondent shall be assessed a
penalty of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per violation. (Ord. 324-B, 10-16-
1996)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
5-801: Adoption Of Residential Code
5-801: ADOPTION OF RESIDENTIAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of regulating and
governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-
family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more
than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress within the city
of Prague, that certain code known as the international residential code, being
particularly the latest edition thereof and each subsequent edition upon
approval and adoption by the state of Oklahoma, save and except such portions
as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this code. The
international residential code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. If any provisions of current ordinances of the
city are in conflict with the provisions of the residential code, except as
provided in this chapter, the provisions of the residential code shall prevail.
(Ord. 390, 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 9
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-901: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
5-902: Fee Schedule
5-901: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems within the city of Prague, that
certain code known as the international mechanical code, being particularly the
latest edition thereof and each subsequent edition upon approval and adoption
by the state of Oklahoma, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified, or amended by this code. The international mechanical code
is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. If
any provisions of current ordinances of the city are in conflict with the
provisions of the mechanical code, except as provided in this chapter, the
provisions of the mechanical code shall prevail. (Ord. 389, 11-14-2005)
5-902: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   New home construction: Included in building permit.
      2.   Addition/remodel: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
      3.   Gas pressure test: Ten dollars ($10.00).
   B.   Commercial:
      1.   New construction:
         a.   Up to five (5) tons: Twenty dollars ($20.00);
         b.   Additional tonnage per ton: One dollar ($1.00).
      2.   Addition/remodel: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
      3.   Gas pressure test: Ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   All required permits will be obtained and paid for before the work
commences. Permit fee covers all required inspections and one reinspection if
needed. (Ord. 412, 5-11-2009)
CHAPTER 10
PENALTY AND JUDICIAL RELIEF
SECTION:
5-1001: Penalty
5-1002: Relief In The Courts
5-1001: PENALTY:
Any person who shall engage in any business, trade, or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate, or registration is required by this Part without
having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of registration as
required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this Chapter or by any
code adopted by this Part, or who shall otherwise violate any provision of this
Chapter or of any code adopted by this Part, or who shall violate any lawful
regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for in this Part,
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-56)
5-1002: RELIEF IN THE COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this Chapter shall interfere with the
right of the City also to apply to the proper courts of the State for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-57)
CHAPTER 11
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
5-1101: Adoption
5-1102: Amendments
5-1101: ADOPTION:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of the
City Clerk of the City of Prague, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Prague, State of Oklahoma, for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor, and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the Office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
5-1102 of this chapter. (Ord. 477, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
5-1102: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Prague, State of Oklahoma
Section 103.5. Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be set by
resolution.
(Ord. 477, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
Section 111. Means of appeal. This language in the code is amended as follows.
111.1   The words board of appeals is removed and replaced with Municipal
        Court.
111.2   This language is removed
111.2.1 This language is removed
111.2.2 This language is removed
111.2.3 This language is removed
111.2.4 This language is removed
111.2.5 This language is removed
111.3   This language is removed
111.4   This language is removed
111.4.1 This language is removed
111.5   This language is removed
111.6   This language is removed
111.6.1 The word board is removed and replaced by court
111.6.2 The word board is removed and replaced by court
111.8   The words appeals board are removed and replaced by Municipal Court
 
(Ord. 481, 2-11-2019)
Section 112.4. Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than $200.00 or more than $500.00.
Section 302.4. Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds or plant growth in excess of 12 inches. Noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants, and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens. Upon failure of the owner or agent
having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice
of violation, they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with Section
106.3 and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to
comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the
jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to
enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing
thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent
responsible for the property.
Section 304.14. Insect screens. Every door, window, and other outside opening
required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food
service areas, or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food
for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged, or stored shall be
supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh inch (16 mesh
per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-
closing device in good working condition. Exception: Screens shall not be
required where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent
fans, are employed.
Section 602.3. Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases, or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heating to maintain a minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees
Celsius) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms. Exceptions: (1)
When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design temperature for
the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall not be required
provided that the heating system is operating at its full design capacity. The
winter outdoor designation temperature for the locality shall be as indicated
in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. (2) In areas where the
average monthly temperature is above 30 degrees Fahrenheit (-1 degrees
Celsius), a minimum temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees Celsius)
shall be maintained.
Section 602.4. Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat to maintain a temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18
degrees Celsius) during the period the spaces are occupied. Exceptions: (1)
Processing, storage, and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions. (2) Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in
vigorous physical activities.
(Ord. 477, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
PART 6
COURT
Municipal Court   1
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
6-101: Organization Of Municipal Court
6-102: Definitions
6-103: Jurisdiction Of Court
6-104: Judge; Qualifications
6-105: Term Of Judge
6-106: Alternate Judge
6-107: Acting Judge
6-108: Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge
6-109: Salary And Payments To Judges
6-110: Removal Of Judge
6-111: Vacancy In Office Of Judge
6-112: Disqualification Of Judge
6-113: Court Marshal
6-114: Clerk Of The Court; Duties
6-115: Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
6-116: Bond Of Court Clerk
6-117: Rules Of Court
6-118: Enforcement Of Rules
6-119: Written Complaints To Prosecute Ordinance Violations
6-120: Traffic Ordinance Violations; Procedures For Issuing Citation; Custody,
Arrest
6-121: Summons For Arrest
6-122: Form Of Arrest Warrant
6-123: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
6-124: Deposit Of Driver's License As Bail For Traffic Violations
6-125: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
6-126: Trials And Judgments
6-127: Trial By Jury And Waiver
6-128: Jurors And Jury Trial Procedures
6-129: Suspension Of Sentence
6-130: Imprisonment, Work By Prisoners
6-131: Fines And Costs
6-132: Conduct Of Sessions Of Court; Notice
6-133: Court Costs
6-134: Costs Of Incarceration
6-101: ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT 1 :
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Criminal Court of the City, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on
January 7, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by sections 27-
101 and 27-102 of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes. To the extent of conflict
between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of
this City, the provisions of this chapter shall control. The court shall be
operative on and after January 16, 1969. (Prior Code § 12-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 27-101 - 27-131.
6-102: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
Municipality.
CLERK: The Clerk of this Municipality, including any Deputy or member of the
office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk's Office.
COURT: The Municipal Court of the City of Prague.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Prague.
JUDGE: The Judge of the Municipal Criminal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the Statutes of this State and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The City of Prague, Lincoln County,
Oklahoma.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this Municipality is situated. (Prior Code §
12-2)
6-103: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this Municipality is
charged. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-3)
6-104: JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS:
A Judge need not be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he must be a
resident of this Municipality, of the age of twenty one (21) years or over,
possessed of good moral character. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he shall not accept
employment inconsistent with his duties as Judge, or arising out of facts which
give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court,
pending therein or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
(Prior Code, Sec. 12-4)
6-105: TERM OF JUDGE:
The official term of the Judge shall be two (2) years expiring on May 1 in each
odd-numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall
serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. The Judge of the
Municipal Court existing in this Municipality as of January 7, 1969, shall act
as Judge of the Court herein provided for until a Judge is appointed and
qualified under the terms of this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-5)
6-106: ALTERNATE JUDGE:
   A.   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an alternate Judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His appointment shall be for
the same term and made in the same manner as the Judge. He shall sit as Acting
Judge of the Court in any case if the Judge is:
      1.   Absent from the Court;
      2.   Unable to act as Judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-
6)
6-107: ACTING JUDGE:
If at any time there is no Judge or alternate Judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor, with consent of the governing
body, shall appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this
Chapter for the Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the
disposition of pending matters until such time as a Judge or alternate Judge
shall be available. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-7)
6-108: APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE:
Judges and alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the
governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the
day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at
the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the Mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-8)
6-109: SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES:
   A.   A Judge, other than an alternate Judge or an Acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this Municipality.
   B.   An alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set by
the governing body for each day devoted to the performance of his duties,
except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not exceed
the salary of the Judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or Acting Judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this Chapter
as the salary of the Judge in whose stead he sits. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-9)
6-110: REMOVAL OF JUDGE:
   A.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this State for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
      1.   The Mayor; or
      2.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this Municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   B.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to:
      1.   Representation by counsel;
      2.   Present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against him;
and
      3.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
   C.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings 1  shall govern
removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon
individual votes, by a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor
of such removal. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-10)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309–317, as amended.
6-111: VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE:
   A.   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      1.   Dies;
      2.   Resigns;
      3.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      4.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   B.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-11)
6-112: DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
In prosecutions before the Court no change of venue shall be allowed; but the
Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a Judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or Acting Judge appointed as provided in this
Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-12)
6-113: COURT MARSHAL:
All writs or process of the Court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the Chief of Police of this Municipality, who shall be the principal officer of
the Court. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-13)
6-114: CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES:
   A.   The City Clerk or a deputy designated by him, shall be the clerk of the
Municipal Court. The clerk shall:
      1.   Assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the Court,
preparation of writs, processes, or other papers;
      2.   Administer oaths required in judicial or other proceedings before
the Court;
      3.   Be responsible for the entry of all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the Court;
      4.   Perform such other clerical duties in relation to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct;
      5.   Receive and give receipt for and disburse or deliver to the
Municipal Treasurer all fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of money
properly payable to the Municipal Court; and
      6.   Pay to the Treasurer of this Municipality immediately all money so
received by him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to
be disbursed by him for special purposes. All money paid to the Treasurer shall
be placed in the General Fund of the Municipality, or in such fund as the
governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the
Municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the
fund in which it is placed. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-14)
6-115: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The Attorney for this Municipality, or his duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the Municipal Court. He shall have full power and
discretion to prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the City.
He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal,
proceedings in error and review from this Court to any other court of the
State, and to represent this Municipality in all proceedings arising out of
matters in this Court. (Ord. 278, 5-13-1985)
6-116: BOND OF COURT CLERK:
The clerk of the Municipal Court shall give bond in the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The bond shall be submitted to the governing
body for its approval. The bond shall be in substantially the following form:
I,                     , clerk of the Municipal Court of Prague, State of
Oklahoma, and                 and                , his sureties, do jointly and
severally agree to pay on demand each and every person who may be entitled
thereto, all such sums of money as the said clerk may become liable to pay, on
account of any moneys which may come into his hands, by virtue of his office.
Dated at                    , this       day of             , 19      .
                                                  
   (Signed)
When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk of this Municipality and
retained in the Municipal archives. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-16)
6-117: RULES OF COURT:
The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the State and with
the ordinances of this Municipality for the proper conduct of the business of
the Court. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-17)
6-118: ENFORCEMENT OF RULES:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the Judge or by the Court
may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by him, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the District Courts of this State.
(Prior Code, Sec. 12-18)
6-119: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
Except as provided otherwise in this Chapter, all prosecutions commenced in the
Municipal Court shall be initiated by filing of a written complaint which shall
be subscribed and verified by the person making complaint and setting forth
concisely the offense charged. All prosecutions for the violation of Municipal
ordinances shall be styled, "The City of Prague vs. (naming the person or
persons charged)". (Prior Code, Sec. 12-19)
6-120: TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY,
ARREST:
   A.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of this Municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he may take his name,
address, operator's license number, and registered license number of the motor
vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information and may
issue him in writing in form prescribed by the Mayor or his duly designated
delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating
the traffic violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to
the charge against him at a time, not later than thirty (30) days thereafter,
specified in the citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of
the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then
release the person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued
fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and
the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this Chapter.
   B.   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this Municipality, the police officer may also:
      1.   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set out
in subsection A of this Section pending his appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation after the person:
         a.   Posts cash bail;
         b.   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate;
         c.   Deposits with the arresting officer a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the arresting
officer as provided in Section
6-124 of this Chapter;
      2.   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this Chapter; or
      3.   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A
of this Section, the person shall be released from custody.
   C.   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsection
A or B of this Section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A or B of
this Section. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-20; amd. Ord. 224, 9-18-1978)
6-121: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance, the
Judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, he shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
Court on a certain day, five (5) days (Sundays and holidays excepted) after the
summons is served upon him, and including such other pertinent information as
may be necessary.
   B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as provided by
this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-21)
6-122: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this Municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Attorney of
this Municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest,
in substantially the following form:
The City of Prague to the Chief of Police of Prague, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring (insert him, her, them)
before me, at the (naming the place).
Witness my hand this       day of              , 19      .
                                                   
   Judge (or Clerk) of the Municipal Court
   of Prague, Oklahoma.
   B.   It is the duty of the Marshal, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this Municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-22)
6-123: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in on amount and upon conditions fixed by this Chapter or the Judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the Judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his
designated representative to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by
ordinance for the offense charged. (Prior Code, Sec. 12-23)
6-124: DEPOSIT OF DRIVER'S LICENSE AS BAIL FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   In addition to the other methods for providing or posting of bail
authorized in this Chapter upon arrest for traffic violations, the defendant
may deposit with the police officer a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the police officer. The receipt
issued by the police officer shall be recognized as an operator's license and
shall authorize the operation of a motor vehicle until the time and date of the
hearing indicated on the receipt or traffic citation, but not to exceed twenty
(20) days. The operator's license and traffic citation shall be delivered by
the police officer to the clerk of the Municipal Court.
   B.   Any person who applies for a duplicate license to operate a motor
vehicle while his license is deposited in accordance with subsection A of this
Section shall be fined seventy dollars ($70.00) and Court costs. Each such
application shall constitute a separate violation. In order for the fine to be
applicable to a violator applying for a duplicate license, notice of the
provisions of this subsection shall be included in receipt issued pursuant to
this Section. The receipt for deposit of the driver's license shall contain
essentially the following notice:
   NOTICE
This receipt for deposit of a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
constitutes a temporary operator's license until your hearing date on
                         , but in no case shall this temporary license remain
in effect more than twenty (20) days. Keep this receipt in your possession at
all times while operating a motor vehicle.
Application for a duplicate license to operate a motor vehicle while your
license is deposited as bail is a crime punishable by a fine of Seventy Dollars
($70.00) and court costs. Each such application constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 78-6, 7-5-1978)
6-125: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the Court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The Judge, or the Attorney of the Municipality, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, Sec. 12-24)
6-126: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain
a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   C.   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this Chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   D.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   E.   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   G.   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day. If the
defendant is without means to pay the fines or costs, the Municipal Judge may
direct the total amount due to be entered upon the Court minutes and to be
certified to the District Court in the county where the situs of the Municipal
government is located where it shall be entered upon the District Court
judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a District Court
judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the enforcement of
the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor. (Prior Code,
Secs. 12-25–12-29, 12-31, 12-32)
6-127: TRIAL BY JURY AND WAIVER:
   A.   In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by fine of
more than State statutes allow, including costs, or by imprisonment, or by both
fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless waived by the defendant.
If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the Court.
   B.   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or
waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
arraignment and entered on the docket of the Court respecting proceedings in
the case.
   C.   An election waiving jury trial, made at arraignment, may be changed by
the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the Court is set;
an election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be rechanged so as again to demand trial by jury. (Prior Code, Secs. 13-35–13-
37)
6-128: JURORS AND JURY TRIAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial of cases by jury,
the Judge shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of the District Court
for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated number of jurors,
deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to be drawn from the
jury wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the State, and to be
certified by the clerk of the District Court to the Judge of the Municipal
Court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be certified and the
jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of the calendar begins. If it is
anticipated that the completion of the calendar will require more than two (2)
weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the number required for each two
(2) week period, as provided by law for the drawing of jurors for the District
Court. Additional drawing of other names also may be requested by the Judge,
when necessary, in accordance with the law for such additional drawings in the
District Court. If, in the future, provisions of the law respecting the drawing
of jury lists for the District Court are changed, the Judge shall take such
steps, in requesting jury lists for the Court, as are necessary to comply with
the State law.
   B.   Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the Court shall cause a
summons substantially in the following form to be issued and served upon each
person on the list:
STATE OF OKLAHOMA )
) SS:
COUNTY OF LINCOLN, )
TO                               , GREETING: you hereby are summoned to appear
in the Municipal Court for the City of Prague, Oklahoma, to be held at
                           on the         day of              19    , at the
hour of         o'clock    .M., to serve as a juror in said court, and to
continue in such service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this       day of         , 19    .
         Clerk of the Municipal Court of the
         City of Prague, Oklahoma
(Seal)
   C.   Service shall be made, as the Judge may prescribe by rule or direct by
order, either in person upon the juror by the marshal of the Court or by any
member of the police force of this Municipality, or by the clerk of the Court,
through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in the
jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and, therefore, that he was properly served therewith.
   D.   A jury in the Court shall consist of six (6) jurors, good and lawful
men or women, citizens of the County of Lincoln, possessing the qualifications
of jurors in District Court.
   E.   After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together and hear the proofs
and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered in public and in the
presence of the defendant.
   F.   A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five (5) jurors.
   G.   In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall determine all
questions of law, including questions as to the introduction of evidence,
arising during the trial. He also shall instruct the jury as to the law.
   H.   The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When the jury
has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to the court.
The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so entered.
   I.   The jury must not be discharged after the cause is submitted to it
until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges it
sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and so on, until a
verdict is rendered.
   J.   Jurors shall receive for their services the sum of five dollars ($5.00)
per day, plus mileage at the rate of fifteen cents ($0.15) per mile necessarily
traveled by the most direct route in going to and from the court from their
respective places of residence. The claims for such compensation shall show the
location of the juror's residence and the route and miles traveled, and must be
verified as other claims against the municipality are verified. Jurors shall be
paid out of the general funds of the municipality, and the city clerk is hereby
authorized to pay the same as other claims filed against the municipality.
   K.   Witnesses required to be present at any such jury trial shall be paid
at the same rate and under the same such conditions as set herein for jurors,
provided however, no witness fees or mileage shall be paid to any police
officer or peace officer appearing in the line of their duty. (Ord. 280, 12-9-
1985)
6-129: SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE:
After conviction and sentence, the judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and 27-124. (Prior code § 12-33)
6-130: IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the chief of police, the
sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   B.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two (2) days of
imprisonment under his sentence.
   C.   The chief of police, subject to the direction of the city manager,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself, or by some
person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the
chief of police shall make provision therefor. (1983 Code)
6-131: FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   If a judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall
tax the costs to the defendant, plus the fees and mileage of jurors and
witnesses, all of which the defendant shall pay, in addition to any fine that
may be imposed.
   B.   The amount of costs to be taxed shall be determined by the municipal
judge. The amount of costs shall not exceed the sum of thirty two dollars fifty
cents ($32.50), plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses.
   C.   The amount of costs to be taxed on a plea of guilty, not guilty or nolo
contendere with payment prior to municipal court appearance, with no appearance
to be made in municipal court shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 295, 5-13-
1991)
   D.   1. Any person arrested, detained or housed overnight in the Prague
Municipal Jail under the authority granted by this code or the statutes of the
state of Oklahoma shall be assessed a housing fee in the amount of thirty three
dollars twenty five cents ($33.25) per day. The fee will be assessed after the
first overnight spent in the jail and continue to be assessed each twenty four
(24) hour period that passes thereafter.
      2.   This housing fee shall be independent of any fines, costs or fees
that may be assessed from citations issued to any person for violation of
traffic laws or other ordinance violations. The Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to adopt rules and regulations consistent with this chapter to
implement this section. (Ord. 426, 11-14-2011)
6-132: CONDUCT OF SESSIONS OF COURT; NOTICE:
The Judge of the Municipal Court shall conduct regular sessions of the
Municipal Court. Notice of the sessions shall be given as prescribed in the
Oklahoma Open Meetings Law, 25 Oklahoma Statutes section 301 et seq. (1983
Code)
6-133: COURT COSTS:
Except as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes 2001, section
14-111, the City of Prague, Oklahoma does hereby determine that court costs
which may be charged and collected by the City Court Clerk in connection with
Municipal offenses shall forthwith be the sum of forty five dollars ($45.00)
per case or offense plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses.
   A.   The City of Prague Municipal Court seeking to collect unpaid fines and
costs of at least fifty dollars ($50.00) from an individual who has filed a
State Income Tax return may file a claim with the Oklahoma Tax Commission
requesting that the amount owed to the Municipal Court be deducted from any
State Income Tax refund due to that individual. The claim shall be filed
electronically in a form prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission and shall
contain information necessary to identify the person owing the debt, including
the full name and Social Security number of the debtor, all in accordance with
68 Oklahoma Statutes supp. 2008, section 205.2.
   B.   The Municipal Court shall send notice to the Municipal Court defendant
by first class mail at the last known address of the Municipal Court defendant
as shown by the records of the Tax Commission when seeking to collect unpaid
Municipal fines and costs. The notice shall state:
      1.   That a claim has been filed;
      2.   The basis for the claim;
      3.   That the Municipal Court has applied to the Tax Commission for any
portion of the tax refund due to the Municipal Court defendant which would
satisfy the unpaid Municipal Court fines and costs, in full or in part;
      4.   That the Municipal Court defendant has the right to contest the
claim by sending a written request to the Municipal Court for a hearing to
protest the claim and, if the Municipal Court defendant fails to apply for a
hearing within sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice, the
Municipal Court defendant shall be deemed to have waived his or her opportunity
to contest the claim;
      5.   That a collection expense of five percent (5%) of the gross proceeds
owed to the Municipal Court shall be charged to the Municipal Court defendant
and withheld from the refund upon final determination of the debt or final
judgment at the hearing or upon failure of the debtor to request a hearing;
and,
      6.   If the taxpayer settles the unpaid Municipal fines and costs before
the time to contest the claim expires, the Municipal Court shall notify the Tax
Commission in writing or by electronic media that the claim has been released.
   C.   In the case of a joint return, the notice shall state:
      1.   The name of any taxpayer named in the return against whom no unpaid
fines and costs, or final judgment is claimed.
      2.   The fact that unpaid Municipal fines and costs are not claimed
against that taxpayer.
      3.   The fact that the taxpayer is entitled to receive a refund if it is
due regardless of the Municipal fines and costs asserted against the Municipal
Court defendant.
      4.   That in order to obtain the refund due, the taxpayer must apply, in
writing, for a hearing with the Municipal Court named in the notice within
sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice.
      5.   If the taxpayer against whom no Municipal fines and costs are
claimed fails to apply in writing for a hearing within sixty (60) days after
the mailing of the notice, the taxpayer shall have waived his or her right to a
refund.
   D.   If the Municipal Court asserting the claim receives a written request
for a hearing from the debtor or taxpayer against whom no Municipal fines and
costs are claimed, the Municipal Court shall grant a hearing according to the
provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act, section 250, et seq., of title
75 of the Oklahoma Statutes. It shall be determined at the hearing whether the
claimed sum is correct or whether an adjustment to the claim shall be made.
Pending final determination at the hearing of the validity of the unpaid fines
and costs asserted by the Municipal Court, no action shall be taken in
furtherance of the unpaid fines and costs. Appeals from actions taken at the
hearing shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative
Procedures Act.
   E.   Upon final determination at a hearing, as provided for in subsection D
of this section, of the amount of the unpaid fines and costs or upon failure of
the debtor or taxpayer against whom no unpaid fines and costs are claimed to
request such a hearing, the Municipal Court shall submit in the manner
prescribed by the Tax Commission notification of the action taken on the claim
and a request that the amount owed, including the collection expense, be
deducted from the tax refund due to the debtor and transferred to the Municipal
Court. However, if the tax refund due is inadequate to pay the unpaid fines and
costs, the balance due the Municipal Court shall be a continuing debt or final
judgment until paid in full.
   F.   The information obtained by the Municipal Court from the Tax Commission
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be used only to aid in
collection of the unpaid fines and costs owed to the Municipal Court.
Disclosure of the information for any other purpose shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any court employee or other person convicted of violating this
provision shall be subject to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) pursuant to State law and, if still employed by the courts, shall
be dismissed from employment.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to claims filed under
the provisions of section 2906 or section 5011 of title 68 of the Oklahoma
Statutes. (Ord. 469, 1-8-2018)
6-134: COSTS OF INCARCERATION:
   A.   Fines And Costs: If a judgement of conviction or deferral of sentence
is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax all court costs in such amount as
authorized by State law in effect on the date of the offense.
   B.   Costs Of Incarceration: The Municipal Judge shall require a person who
is actually received into custody at a jail facility or who is confined in a
City or County Jail or holding facility, for any Prague Municipal Court
offense, to pay the jail facility or holding facility the costs of
incarceration, both before and after conviction, upon conviction or receiving a
deferred sentence. Unless already collected by incarcerating facility, the
costs of incarceration shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court as provided
for collection of costs and fines, which shall be subject to review under
procedures set forth in rule 8.1 et seq., of the Rules of Oklahoma Court of
Criminal Appeals. Costs of incarceration shall include booking, receiving and
processing out, housing, food, clothing, medical care, dental care, psychiatric
services and any other expenses allowed by State law. The costs of
incarceration shall be an amount equal to the actual cost of the services and
shall be determined by the Chief of Police for City jails and holding
facilities, by the County Sheriff for County jails or by contract amount if
applicable.
   C.   Debt Of Defendant: Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the
defendant owed to the Municipality, County, or other public entity responsible
for the operation of the jail or holding facility and may be collected as
provided by law for collection of any other civil debt or criminal penalty.
   D.   Reduction In Costs Of Incarceration: The court shall not waive the
costs of incarceration in their entirety. However, if the court determines that
a reduction in the fine, costs, and cost of incarceration is warranted, the
court shall equally apply the same percentage reduction to the fine, costs, and
costs of incarceration owed by the defendant. (Ord. 470, 1-8-2018)
PART 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
Finance And Budget Administration   1
Sales Tax   2
Telephone Exchange Tax   3
Gas Utility Tax   4
Use Tax   5
CHAPTER 1
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-101: Depositories Designated; Funds To Be Deposited
7-102: Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
7-103: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
7-104: Purchases, How Made
7-105: When Prior Approval By The Council Is Required
7-106: Competitive Bidding
7-107: When Competitive Bidding Is Not Required
7-108: Sales, Council To Declare Surplus Or Obsolete; Competitive Bidding
7-109: When Competitive Bidding Is Not Required On Sales
7-101: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED 1 :
All banks and all savings and loan associations in this city which are
incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the city. The city treasurer shall deposit daily all public
funds received by him in such banks or savings and loan associations. Funds may
be transferred from one depository to another as the council may direct by
motion or resolution. (Prior code § 7-27, as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 10-118.
7-102: FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM 1 :
The deposits of the city shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes. (Prior code § 7-28)
 
Notes
1 2. 62 OS § 516.1 et seq.
7-103: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter shall mean services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with said services under express or implied contract. Contractual services
shall include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and
maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical
facilities of the city; and other services performed for the city by persons
not in the employment of the city. (Prior code § 7-29)
7-104: PURCHASES, HOW MADE:
   A.   Appointment Of Purchasing Officer/Encumbering Officer: The city manager
shall be authorized to appoint a purchasing officer or officers having
authority to make purchases or enter into contracts against all budget
appropriation accounts as authorized by law.
The city manager shall be authorized to appoint an encumbering officer or
officers having authority to encumber funds against the unencumbered account
balances.
   B.   Issuance Of Purchase Orders: Each duly appointed purchasing officer
shall be authorized to issue purchase orders for purchases and contracts and to
make a commitment in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
without prior permission or authorization from the officer charged with keeping
the appropriation and expenditure records, provided however, that such purchase
orders shall be submitted to said officer by the end of the following working
day. The encumbering officer charged with keeping the appropriation and
expenditure records shall, if there be an unencumbered balance in the
appropriation made for that purpose, so certify by signing the purchase order
and by recording the encumbrance against the appropriate appropriation account.
Purchase orders for purchases or contracts that exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) shall be submitted by each purchasing officer, prior to the time
the commitment is made, to the officer charged with keeping the appropriation
and expenditure records who shall, if there be an unencumbered balance in the
appropriation made for that purpose, so certify by signing the purchase order
authorizing the commitment to be made and by recording the encumbrance against
the appropriate appropriation account.
In instances where it is impossible to ascertain the exact amount of
expenditure to be made at the time of issuing any purchase order, an estimated
amount may be used. The amount shown on the purchase order shall be adjusted
according at the time that the exact amount of the expenditure is ascertained.
The city clerk or his or her designee shall be authorized to issue a purchase
order upon the receipt of an invoice for recurring monthly or periodic service
or rental charges. The processing of such purchase orders for payment shall be
the same as provided for other purchase orders in accordance with applicable
city regulations, city ordinances and state law.
   C.   Blanket Purchase Orders:
      1.   A blanket purchase order may be issued for recurring purchases of
goods or services if a maximum authorized amount for all purchases pursuant to
a blanket purchase order is specified in the order. The maximum authorized
amount shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) unless unit prices for
the goods and services are specified. Any change in the unit price specified in
a blanket purchase order shall cancel the order and require a new one to be
issued.
      2.   Blanket purchase orders shall be prepared, filed and encumbered in
the manner provided for purchase orders and as authorized by law or regulation,
except no written requisition shall be required for a blanket purchase order by
signature.
      3.   After satisfactory delivery of goods or services pursuant to a
blanket purchase order, a vendor's invoice shall be submitted to and approved
by the purchasing officer and forwarded for payment. An itemized list of goods
or services purchased pursuant to the blanket purchase order shall be attached
to the vendor's invoice if said invoice does not contain an itemized list of
goods or services purchased pursuant to the blanket purchase order. Payment of
invoices from vendors pursuant to an approved blanket purchase order may be
authorized by the city clerk without further council approval.
   D.   Payments Without Purchase Orders: The city clerk may authorize payment
of the following taxes and invoices as they become due without a purchase order
or further approval of the city council:
      1.   Taxes, including, but not limited to, withholding, social security,
medicare or unemployment compensation taxes;
      2.   Retirement or pension fund payments or contributions which are
payable pursuant to a resolution, ordinance, contract or other appropriate
agreement which has been approved by the city council;
      3.   Payments for insurance or related coverages, including, but not
limited to, accident, health or life, workers' compensation, or any other
property, vehicle, marine, surety, liability or casualty coverages, which are
payable under a valid contract, policy or other appropriate agreement which has
been approved by the city council;
      4.   Payments to the postmaster for replenishing the postage meter and
postage for utility billing.
   E.   Noncollusion Affidavit: On every invoice submitted to the city for
payment of an architect, contractor, engineer or supplier of materials of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or more, a sworn noncollusion affidavit shall be
signed and attached to the invoice. The content of the affidavit shall be in
accordance with the provisions of 62 Oklahoma Statutes 1981, section 310.9 as
amended.
   F.   Processing And Approval Of Invoices For Payment:
      1.   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of the
contract, the supplier shall deliver an invoice to the city. Such invoice shall
state the supplier's name and address and must be sufficiently itemized to
clearly describe each item purchased, its unit price, where applicable, the
number or volume of each item purchased, its total price, the total of the
purchase and the date of the purchase. The appropriate city officer shall
attach the itemized invoice together with delivery tickets, freight tickets or
other supporting information to the original of the purchase order and, after
approving and signing said original copy of the purchases order, shall submit
the invoices, the purchase order and other supporting data for consideration
for payment by the city.
      2.   Payment of invoices shall not be subject to prior city council
approval. A list of all invoices processed for payment shall be prepared and
submitted to the city council for review. The list shall include at least the
following information:
         a.   The purchase order number, if required;
         b.   The department making the expenditure;
         c.   The name of the supplier;
         d.   A description of the items purchased or services provided;
         e.   The amount of the expenditure.
      3.   The city council shall review the items on the list that have been
administratively approved for payment as provided herein.
   G.   Petty Cash Funds: The city clerk shall be authorized to create a petty
cash fund or funds for a use by authorized employees in making small purchases
of materials and supplies that are not practical or efficient to purchase
through other approved purchasing methods. The administration of the petty cash
fund or funds shall be subject to internal controls and procedures as may be
required by the city's independent auditor; provided however, that the total
combined amount that may be outstanding in petty cash funds may not at any time
exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   H.   Municipal Budget Act: The municipal budget act as set forth by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section
17-201 through 17-216, as amended, is hereby adopted by the city of Prague to
govern its budget procedures. The provisions of said act shall take precedence
over any other state laws applicable to municipal budgets, except as may be
provided otherwise by said act, and shall supersede any conflicting laws.
   I.   Account Transfers:
      1.   The city manager shall be authorized to transfer any unexpended and
unencumbered appropriation or any portion thereof from one account to another
within the same department or from one department to another within the same
fund, except that no appropriation for debt service or other appropriation
required by law or ordinance may be reduced below the minimums required and
provided further that no encumbrance or expenditure may be authorized or made
by any officer or employee which exceeds the available appropriation for each
budget classification level as defined in section
17-213 of the municipal budget act.
      2.   Account transfers authorized by the city manager pursuant to
subsection I1 of this section shall be reported to the council as soon as
practical thereafter.
   J.   Facsimile Signatures Authorized:
      1.   The mayor, city clerk and city treasurer, after filing with the
secretary of state his or her manual signature certified by him or her under
oath, may execute or cause to be executed with a facsimile signature, in lieu
of his or her manual signature, any public security or certificate thereof or
thereto.
      2.   Upon compliance with this section by the authorized officer, his or
her facsimile signature shall have the same legal effect as his or her manual
signature. (Ord. 385, 2-9-2004)
7-105: WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE COUNCIL IS REQUIRED:
Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall
require the prior approval of the city council; and under no circumstances may
such contract or purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the
council. (Ord. 368, 10-12-2001)
7-106: COMPETITIVE BIDDING 1 :
Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services are made, as otherwise provided below, the city purchasing
authority shall submit to at least three (3) persons, firms or corporations
dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if there are not
three (3) dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for quotation, or
invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity to bid; and/or
publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city. He shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the city when
this can be done without additional cost to the city; but he shall submit
requests for quotation to those outside the city when this may be necessary to
secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he thinks that by so
doing he can make a saving for the city; and shall purchase from them when he
can make a saving for the city. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in
public at a designated time and place. He may repeatedly reject all bids, and
again may submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the
request for quotation, or invitation to bid, and/or again publish notice of the
proposed purchase. He may purchase from the bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the city, considering price, quality, date of delivery and so
on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide
the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the city. (Ord. 260, 3-8-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 10-116.
7-107: WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED:
   A.   The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for
competitive bidding: (Ord. 260, 3-8-1982)
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost
does not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in a single
transaction; (Ord. 369, 10-12-2001)
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including government surplus;
      4.   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the council declares the purchase an emergency;
      5.   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the state corporation commission or other governmental
authority; and
      6.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for
things purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise. (Ord. 260, 3-8-1982)
7-108: SALES, COUNCIL TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE; COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) may be sold until the council shall have
declared them obsolete or surplus. Before the city manager sells any surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided below,
he shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or give notice in such other manner as he deems necessary adequately to
reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make bids. All bids shall
be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place, except
when the sale is by auction. The city manager may repeatedly reject all bids
and advertise or give notice again. He shall sell such supplies, materials or
equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In case of a tie, he may
sell to either of the bidders tying, or may divide the sale among two (2) or
more tying, always selling to the highest responsible bidder or bidders for
cash. (Prior code § 7-34)
7-109: WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED ON SALES:
   A.   The city manager may sell the following without giving an opportunity
for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a single transaction;
and
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same. (Prior code § 7-35)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
7-201: Authority To Levy Tax
7-202: Tax Ordinances Enumerated
7-201: AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX:
Pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2701, the city is authorized to
assess, levy, and collect taxes for general and special purposes of municipal
government as set forth in Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 305, 11-8-1993 1 )
 
Notes
  1. The previous part 7, chapter 2 was replaced by the codifier during the
1 supplement containing ordinance 305. The text of sections
  7-201 and
  7-202 of this chapter was created based on statute.
7-202: TAX ORDINANCES ENUMERATED:
The following is a listing of sales tax ordinances passed by the city: (Ord.
305, 11-8-1993 1 )
Ord. Date Description
Ord. Date       Description
197  9-3-1974   Funds for general and special purposes.
243  11-6-1979  Levied additional sales tax.
244  12-18-1979 Amend sales tax ordinance.
253  7-1-1981   Levy city sales tax.
275  11-5-1984  Sales tax amendment.
283  7-14-1986  Increased tax from 2% to 3%.
288  4-20-1987  Levied and assessed tax of 1%.
305  11-8-1993  Levied and assessed tax of 1/2%.
321  10-25-1995 Levied and assessed tax of 1%.
361  1-16-2001  Levied and assessed tax of 1%.
361  10-10-2005 Changed the purpose for which tax proceeds may be used.
361  10-8-2012  Changed the purpose for which tax proceeds may be used and
                extended the tax until June 30, 2016.
 
 
Notes
  2. The previous part 7, chapter 2 was replaced by the codifier during the
1 supplement containing ordinance 305. The text of sections
  7-201 and
  7-202 of this chapter was created based on statute.
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
SECTION:
7-301: Fee Levied On Telephone Exchanges
7-302: Fee To Be In Lieu Of Other Fees, Taxes
7-301: FEE LEVIED ON TELEPHONE EXCHANGES:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm, or corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
City in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the City to compensate the City for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulations, and police control of the construction of lines and
equipment of the telephone company in the City. The inspection fee and charge
shall be on a calendar year basis and shall be due and payable to the City on
or before January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year and shall be
paid into and appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund of the
City. (Prior Code, Sec. 7-36)
7-302: FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES, TAXES:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this Chapter by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
However, it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the City is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space, or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police calls
systems of the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 7-37)
CHAPTER 4
GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
7-401: Fee Levied
7-402: To Be In Lieu Of Other Fees
7-401: FEE LEVIED 1 :
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm or corporation operating a natural gas transmission
distribution system in the City in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the
gross revenues for each current year accrued wholly within the limits of the
City to compensate the City for the expense incurred and service rendered
incident to the exercise of police power supervision, police regulation and
police control of the construction of the line and equipment of the gas
transmission and distribution company in the City. The inspection fee and
charge shall be due and payable to the City on or before January 1, April 1,
July 1 and October 1 of each year and shall be paid into and appropriated and
expended from the General Fund of the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 7-38)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 2601 et seq.
7-402: TO BE IN LIEU OF OTHER FEES:
During the continued substantial compliance with the terms of this Chapter by
the owner of any natural gas distribution system or public utility engaged in
the distribution of natural gas, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excises, franchises, licenses,
privileges and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes.
(Prior Code, Sec. 7-39)
CHAPTER 5
USE TAX
SECTION:
7-501: Authority To Levy Tax
7-502: Tax Ordinances Enumerated
7-501: AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX:
Pursuant to 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2701, the city is authorized to
assess, levy, and collect taxes for general and special purposes of municipal
government as set forth in Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 300, 6-15-1992, eff. 7-15-
1992 1 )
 
Notes
  1. The text of sections
1 7-501 and
  7-502 of this chapter was created by the codifier based on statute, during
  the supplement containing ordinance 300.
7-502: TAX ORDINANCES ENUMERATED:
The following is a listing of use tax ordinances passed by the city: (Ord. 300,
6-15-1992, eff. 7-15-1992 1 )
 
Ord. Date                               Description
300  6-15-1992, eff. 7-15-1992          Levied and assessed tax of 3%.
310  12-13-1993                         Levied and assessed tax of 1/2%.
322  2-12-1996                          Levied and assessed tax of 1%.
340  2-8-1999, eff. retroactive to 2-1- Deleted and canceled tax of 1/2%
     1999                               enacted by ordinance 310.
362  4-9-2001, eff. retroactive to 2-1- Deleted and canceled tax of 1% enacted
     2001                               by ordinance 322.
363  5-14-2001, eff. 7-1-2001           Levied and assessed tax of 1%.
 
 
Notes
  2. The text of sections
1 7-501 and
  7-502 of this chapter was created by the codifier based on statute, during
  the supplement containing ordinance 300.
PART 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Property Maintenance   1
Food Regulations   2
Nuisances   3
Enforcement And Penalty   4
Dilapidated Buildings; Graffiti   5
Smoking In Public Places And Indoor
Workplaces   6
Tobacco Use On City Property Prohibited   7
COVID-19   8
CHAPTER 1
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
8-101: Definitions
8-102: Weeds
8-103: Nuisance
8-104: Encroachments
8-105: Open Wells
8-106: Sewage
8-107: Abatement
8-108: Abatement Liens; Manner Of Collection
8-109: Removal Of Dead Animals
8-110: Unlawful To Litter
8-111: Unlawful To Litter From Automobiles
8-101: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED REFRIGERATOR: Any refrigerator, icebox, airtight container or semi-
airtight container possessing a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet
or more and an opening of fifty (50) square inches or more and which has a lid
or door equipped with a latch or other fastening device capable of securing
such door or lid shut, and such refrigerator, icebox, airtight or semi-airtight
container is located outside any dwelling, building or other structure or
within any warehouse or storage room or any unoccupied, unsecured, or abandoned
dwelling.
BRUSH: Scrub vegetation or dense undergrowth.
CARRION: The dead and putrefying flesh of any animal, fowl or fish.
ENCROACHMENT: Any object, structure or vegetation which obstructs or otherwise
impedes or is likely to obstruct or otherwise impede the lawful passage of
traffic, vehicular and pedestrian, over any street, alley, alley easement,
utility easement greater than ten feet (10') in width, or sidewalk in the city.
FILTH: Any matter in a putrescent state.
IMPROPER STORAGE: The outdoor storage, for a period greater than twenty four
(24) hours, in a residential district, as defined by the zoning ordinance, of
articles and material subject to deterioration by the elements, including, but
not limited to, furniture and appliances other than those customarily installed
or used out of doors, boxes, vehicle parts, and paper; any material which is
stored in a disorderly manner or in such a manner as to offer harborage to
vermin; any cut wood, firewood, lumber, or other building material, except
masonry, which is not stored a minimum of six inches (6") above the ground.
IMPURE OR UNWHOLESOME MATTER: Any putrescible or nonputrescible condition,
object or matter which tends to, may or could produce injury, death or disease
to human beings.
NOTICE: Given personally or delivered by U.S. postal service in writing by a
letter addressed to the owner at the owner's address as recorded in the
appraisal district records of the appraisal district in which the property is
located; to the occupant or person in charge, or if personal service cannot be
obtained, by publication at least once in a paper of general circulation within
the county of Lincoln; or, by posting notice on or near the front door of each
building on the property to which the violation relates, or by posting notice
on a placard attached to a stake driven into the ground on the property to
which the violation relates. In a notice provided under this section, the city
may by regular mail and a posting on the property, or by personally delivering
the notice, notify the owner that if the owner commits another violation of the
same kind or nature that poses a danger to the public health and safety on or
before the first anniversary of the date of the notice, the city may without
further notice correct the violation at the owner's expense and assess the
expense against the property.
NUISANCE: Shall include stagnant or unwholesome water, sinks, privies, filth,
carrion, weeds, rubbish, brush and refuse, impure or unwholesome matter of any
kind, sewage exposed to the atmosphere, objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary
matter of whatever nature, litter as defined elsewhere in this code, harborage
for rodents or parasitic insects, open wells, abandoned refrigerators, animal
pen or enclosures which have become offensive, improper storage, graffiti,
encroachment, substandard premises, junk motor vehicles, junked boats, junked
off road motorcycles or junked all-terrain vehicles, poison ivy, poison oak, or
poison sumac (within 50 feet of an occupied dwelling), and potable water
nuisances.
OBJECTIONABLE, UNSIGHTLY OR UNSANITARY MATTER: Any matter, condition or object
which is objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary to a person of ordinary
sensitivity.
OPEN WELL: Any well, or cistern having a depth of ten feet (10') or greater and
a width not greater than six feet (6') or any manmade pit, hole or excavation
not sufficiently protected or guarded so as to ensure the safety of all passing
by or near same.
POTABLE WATER NUISANCE: The presence of pooled or standing water from a potable
water supply in a quantity and location that may provide a breeding place for
mosquitoes, the discharge of potable water to adjacent property in a volume or
at a rate that damages vegetation, buildings, fences or other structures on the
adjacent property, or the discharge of potable water to a street or other
public property that creates a hazard to traffic due to the presence of
accumulated water or ice.
REFUSE: Any homogeneous or heterogeneous accumulation of worn out, used up,
broken, rejected or worthless materials.
RUBBISH: Trash, debris, rubble, stone, fragments of building materials, mounds
of dirt or rock and any other material.
SEWAGE: Wash water and water carried animal, culinary, and industrial wastes;
liquid waste containing human excreta, and other matter, flowing in or from a
property drainage system or sewer. Excreta include feces, urine, secretions
from the skin, expectoration, liquid wastes from dwellings and institutions,
stables, and business buildings.
UNMANAGED LANDSCAPE VEGETATION: A. Landscape trees, bushes, shrubs, vines,
brush and ground cover plants that, due to lack of trimming, pruning and
shaping, have become unsightly to persons of ordinary sensibilities;
B. Dead trees, shrubs, vines, brush or ground cover; and
C. Trees that represent a safety hazard due to disease or damage.
WEEDS: Uncultivated or cultivated vegetation, including grass, having a height
in excess of twelve inches (12"). (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-102: WEEDS:
   A.   A person commits an offense if he permits, suffers or allows weeds on
any lot or lots, grounds or yards under his ownership or control within the
city limits.
   B.   It shall be a defense to this section that such vegetation is:
      1.   An agricultural crop, located on property possessing an agricultural
tax exemption, provided that:
         a.   Such crop is maintained a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any
property line adjacent to any developed nonresidential property and one hundred
feet (100') from any property line adjacent to developed residential property;
separation by alley rights of way notwithstanding;
         b.   Such crop is maintained a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any
property line adjacent to the right of way line of a major thoroughfare as
defined by the city thoroughfare plan; and
         c.   Such crop is maintained in such a manner so as to be free from an
abundance of dead plant materials which are, or are likely to be, a fire
hazard.
      2.   Decorative flowers, vines, bushes, shrubs, plants or trees.
      3.   Vegetable gardens intended for personal use. (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-103: NUISANCE:
   A.   Allowing A Nuisance: A person commits an offense if the person causes,
suffers, or allows a nuisance on any lot or lots, grounds or yards, or any
other place in the city.
   B.   Unmanaged Landscape Vegetation:
      1.   It shall be an offense for a property owner or occupant to possess
unmanaged landscape vegetation on any developed property.
      2.   It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section
that the unmanaged landscape vegetation:
         a.   Exists within a drainage easement; and
         b.   Does not constitute a harborage for rodents which are capable of
disease transmission to people.
   C.   Discharge Of Yard Waste:
      1.   It shall be an offense for any person to cause, suffer, permit or
allow the discharge of yard waste to a street, alley or any appurtenance to the
municipal storm sewer system.
      2.   It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section
that the property owner, occupant, landscape maintenance employee or any other
person:
         a.   Used manual or mechanical sweeping or vacuuming techniques to
remove yard wastes from streets, alley, or any appurtenance to the municipal
storm sewer system within one hour of the lawn maintenance; and
         b.   Collected yard waste in plastic or wet strength paper bags and
disposed in a lawful manner; or
         c.   Used lawn maintenance techniques that reasonably prevented the
discharge of the yard waste to a street, alley or any appurtenance to the
municipal storm sewer system. (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-104: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
ALLEY: Shall mean and include an alley, alley easement, or a utility easement
which is ten (10) or more feet in width.
PERSON: The person who owns, controls, or occupies real property which abuts or
adjoins an alley.
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall cause, suffer, allow or maintain any
structure, object, tree, shrub or other vegetation to encroach into, on or over
an alley, street, sidewalk or other public right of way.
   C.   Defense: It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that:
      1.   The encroachment is a tree, shrub, or other vegetation which extends
no farther than one foot (1') into the alley nor nearer than fourteen feet
(14') from the grade of the alley or street, or eight feet (8') from the grade
of a sidewalk, or that such encroachment is a wall, fence or vegetation within
an easement and that such encroachment is approved by all entities having
legitimate interest in such easement, provided, however, that such approval
shall not constitute abandonment of any interest in real property.
      2.   The encroachment is within a utility easement and such easement
boundary is not parallel to and contiguous with a side or rear lot line; or
      3.   Such encroachment is a wall, fence or vegetation within a utility
easement and that such encroachment is approved by all entities having
legitimate interest in such easement, provided, however, that such approval
shall not constitute abandonment of any interest in real property. (Ord. 443,
10-14-2013)
8-105: OPEN WELLS:
A person commits an offense if he suffers, allows, causes or permits the
operation of a well or cistern without the attachment thereto of a secure
covering capable of supporting two hundred (200) pounds or if he suffers,
allows, causes or permits the abandonment of a well or cistern without filling
said well or cistern from its depth to the surface or plugging the same with a
permanent plug at a depth of not less than ten feet (10') from the surface and
completely filling the same from said plug to the surface; or if he suffers,
allows, causes, or permits any pit, hole or excavation so as to threaten the
safety of anyone passing by or near. (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-106: SEWAGE:
A person commits an offense if he permits, suffers, or allows sewage to be
exposed to the atmosphere on any lot or lots, grounds or yards or any other
place in the city so that it is or is likely to be:
   A.   A source of flies and fly breeding;
   B.   A source of noxious or offensive odors and conditions inimical to the
public interest, dangerous or prejudicial to health; or
   C.   A source of mosquitoes and mosquito breeding. (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-107: ABATEMENT:
   A.   After discovery of a nuisance on any real property, notice may be given
to the owner of such property directing the abatement of the nuisance within
seven (7) days if the city desires to perfect a lien for any expenses incurred
in abating the nuisance.
   B.   In the event that the nuisance is based upon a determination of
objectionable or unsightly matter on the property, the owner, occupant or
person in charge of the property shall be given seven (7) days in which to
abate the nuisance. (Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-108: ABATEMENT LIENS; MANNER OF COLLECTION:
   A.   After notice to the owner of the property involved, if such nuisance is
not abated within the time period specified, the city shall have full authority
to abate such nuisance or cause same to be abated.
      1.   Such abatement shall be performed at the expense of the city for the
account of the owners of the property.
      2.   All such expenses incurred in abating such nuisance shall be
assessed on and against the premises on which said expenses were expended and
shall include the actual costs of abating the nuisance and an administrative
fee as follows:
 
First abating                                      $100.00
Second abating within 90 days of the first offense 200.00
Third abating within 90 days of the second offense 300.00
Subsequent abating of a nuisance within 90 days of the last abatement will
increase the fee by an additional $50.00 per offense up to a maximum of
$500.00.
 
      3.   On filing with the county clerk of Lincoln County, Oklahoma, a
statement signed by the mayor and the city manager of expenses actually
incurred in abating such nuisance plus administrative fees, the city shall have
a lien against the premises to the extent of the expenses and administrative
fees incurred. Such lien shall be a privileged lien, second only to tax liens
and liens for street improvements. Interest at the rate of ten percent (10%)
compounded annually shall accrue on the expenses and fees seemed by the lien.
Interest shall be calculated from the date the expenses seemed by the lien were
incurred by the city.
      4.   For such expenditures and interest, the city may forward said lien
and a statement of expenses aforesaid, or certified copy thereof, to the
treasurer of Lincoln County and the same shall be levied on the property
collected by the county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. (Ord. 443,
10-14-2013)
8-109: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this city, shall
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. (1983 Code; amd.
Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
8-110: UNLAWFUL TO LITTER:
   A.   "Littering" is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin
cans, bottles or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the city or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to litter. (1983 Code; amd. Ord. 443, 10-
14-2013)
8-111: UNLAWFUL TO LITTER FROM AUTOMOBILES:
It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys and roadways of the
city any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin cans or any other substance or refuse
whatever. (1983 Code; amd. Ord. 443, 10-14-2013)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-201: U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance Adopted
8-202: Milk Ordinance Adopted
8-203: Grade Requirements
8-204: Violation; Penalty
8-201: U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED 1 :
   A.   The unabridged form of the latest edition of the "United States Public
Health Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code" is hereby adopted
and incorporated in this Code by reference. Three (3) copies of the Sanitation
Ordinance and code shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk. The
Sanitation Ordinance and code shall govern the definitions, inspection of food
service establishments, the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments, the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this Section. In the
Sanitation Ordinance and code, however, all parenthetical phrases referring to
grading and the following subsections shall be understood to be deleted:
subsections H.2.e., H.7 and H.8.
   B.   "Health authority" means the Director of the County Health Department
of this County or his designated representative.
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
Section
1-108 of this Code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation. (Prior Code, Secs. 11-9, 11-10)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 1-1101 et seq.
8-202: MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED 1 :
Part 11 of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance 1965, recommended by the U.S.
Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to
govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the City limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants; the
issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors.
At least three (3) copies of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed in
the office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by Sections
8-203 and
8-204 of this Chapter. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 63 OS § 1-1301 et seq; 2 OS § 7-1.
8-203: GRADE REQUIREMENTS:
Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments; provided that in an emergency, ungraded milk or where the grade
is unknown, may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk
and milk products shall be labeled "ungraded". (1983 Code)
8-204: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in
Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 11-10)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-301: Nuisance Defined; Public Nuisances; Private Nuisances
8-302: Persons Responsible
8-303: Time Does Not Legalize
8-304: Remedies Against Public Nuisances
8-305: Remedies Against Private Nuisances
8-306: City Has Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
8-307: Certain Public Nuisances In The City Defined
8-308: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
8-309: Abatement By Suit In District Court
8-310: Nuisance Unlawful
8-311: Health Nuisances; Abatement
8-312: Toilet Facilities Required; Nuisance
8-313: Procedure Cumulative
8-301: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES 1 :
   A.   A "nuisance" is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty
or is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   C.   Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this Section is a
private nuisance. (Prior Code, Sec. 13-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 OS § 1 et seq.
8-302: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (Prior Code, Sec.
13-2)
8-303: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (Prior Code, Sec. 13-3)
8-304: REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in section 12 of title 50 of the
Oklahoma Statutes; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance. (Prior Code,
Sec. 13-4)
8-305: REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in sections 14 and 15 of title 50
of the Oklahoma Statutes; or
         b.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance. (Prior Code,
Sec. 13-5)
8-306: CITY HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
As provided in section 16 of title 50 of the Oklahoma Statutes, the City has
power to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its
corporate limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks
and the public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is
practical to do so, the City has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance
after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can
be done. (Prior Code, Sec. 13-6)
8-307: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE CITY DEFINED:
   A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this Code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the State law or ordinances of the City; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the State law or ordinance of the City;
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of State law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      7.   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the City; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      8.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      9.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      10.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      11.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      12.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      13.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      14.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      15.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      16.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      17.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      18.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      19.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; or
      20.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the city, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms. (Prior code § 13-7)
8-308: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the city manager or other appropriate
officer or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action
summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement. (Prior code § 13-8)
8-309: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (Prior code § 13-9)
8-310: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the city or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city.
(Prior code § 13-10)
8-311: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT 1 :
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011,
the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any
private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at his own expense,
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within twenty four (24)
hours, or within such other time as may be provided by notice in writing and
may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or
authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a policeman or a copy
thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or
agent, if known and within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the
residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state,
the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by
publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation
in the city.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the city clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other city utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the city water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added
and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same regulations relating
to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant
is not a user of any city utility service, such cost, after certification to
the city clerk, may be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the
city may be collected. (Prior code § 13-21)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 1-1011.
8-312: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
respective meanings ascribed to them herein:
    HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform with the specifications approved by the state health department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   B.   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans reside,
are employed or congregate within this city shall install, equip and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a
sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets hereby
required shall be of the sanitary water closet type when located within two
hundred feet (200') of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto and of the
sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary
sewer) or the water closet type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit
privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if it meets the standards of and is approved by the state health department.
   C.   All human excrement disposed of within this city shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in this
section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the city to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the city in any other manner.
   D.   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy. No excrement
from any person suffering from typhoid fever, dysentery or other serious bowel
disease shall be deposited in any sanitary pit privy or sanitary water closet
until it is disinfected in such a manner as may be prescribed by the health
officer.
   E.   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each
day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense. (Prior code
§§ 11-1 - 11-5)
8-313: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative onto any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (Prior code § 13-22)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
8-401: County Health Department Designated To Enforce Health Ordinances
8-402: Obstructing Health Officer
8-403: Quarantine; Violations
8-404: Penalty
8-401: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE HEALTH ORDINANCES:
Anywhere in this Chapter where the word or words "Health Officer" are used it
shall be construed to mean the Director of the County Health Department or his
duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the City
Manager and City Council to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances
of this City as set out in this Section and any such decisions rendered under
this Section are subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from
an offender. (1983 Code)
8-402: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any
health officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
this City. (1983 Code)
8-403: QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation. (1983 Code)
8-404: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this Chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (Prior Code, Sec. 13-23)
CHAPTER 5
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS; GRAFFITI
SECTION:
8-501: Definitions
8-502: Condemnation Of Buildings; Notice; Removal; Costs
8-503: Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
8-504: Removal Of Graffiti
8-501: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A. A structure which through neglect or injury lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public;
B. A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of necessary
repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health, safety,
and welfare of the general public;
C. A structure which is determined by the city to be an unsecured building, as
defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 22-112.1, more than three (3) times
within any twelve (12) month period;
D. A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section 22-112.1, for more than eighteen (18) consecutive months; or
E. A structure declared by the city council to constitute a public nuisance.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer. (Ord. 435, 10-8-2012)
8-502: CONDEMNATION OF BUILDINGS; NOTICE; REMOVAL; COSTS:
   A.   City Authority; Administration; Housing Standards Board:
      1.   The city may cause dilapidated buildings within the city limits to
be torn down and removed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      2.   The city manager is hereby designated as the administrative body for
the city to carry out the duties of the city in this section.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   Notice:
         a.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down
or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the housing
standards board holds a hearing.
         b.   A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by certified mail
with return receipt requested to the property owner at the address shown by the
current year's tax rolls in the office of the Lincoln County treasurer. Written
notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in
the office of the Lincoln County clerk to the last known address of the
mortgagee. However, if neither the property owner nor the mortgage holder can
be located as shown by the return receipt, or if the return receipt is not
returned within ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the city, notice may
be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication as
defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-102. Such notice may be published once not less than ten (10) days prior to
any hearing or action by the city pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      2.   Hearing By Board To Determine Dilapidation: A hearing shall be held
by the housing standards board to determine if the property is dilapidated and
has become detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public
and the community, or if the property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous
to other property.
      3.   Failure Of Owner To Comply; Removal By City; Lien:
         a.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefited by
the removal of such conditions, the city manager shall fix reasonable dates for
the commencement and completion of the work by the owner. Should the owner not
comply with either the commencement or completion of the work by the dates
allowed, the city may cause the dilapidated building to be torn down and
removed.
         b.   Upon completion of the work by the city, the city clerk shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the Lincoln County
clerk describing the property, the findings of the city at the hearing, and
stating that the city claims a lien on the property for the destruction and
removal costs, and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property
owner from and after the date of filing of the notice.
         c.   The agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the
property for the performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function
of the city if the work is not performed by the property owner within dates
fixed by the city manager.
      4.   Determination Of Cost; Issuance Of Statement:
         a.   The city manager shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing.
         b.   The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual cost
attributable to the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a demand for
payment of such costs, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the
property owner.
         c.   In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided for in subsection B1 of this section.
         d.   If the city dismantles or removes any dilapidated buildings, the
cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance, equipment and administration fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) required for the dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
buildings.
         e.   If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings is done
by the city on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the
lowest and best bidder.
      5.   Certified Statement To County Treasurer; Lien; Collection:
         a.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city
clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6)
months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such
property, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of
the cost to the Lincoln County treasurer.
         b.   Once certified to the Lincoln County treasurer, payment may only
be made to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this
section. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the county
treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with
the county clerk. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the county clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to
all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until
the cost is fully paid.
         c.   At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall collect a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be
deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county.
         d.   If the county treasurer and the city agree that the county
treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the city may pursue a civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property.
         e.   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section.
         f.   Upon receiving payment, the city clerk shall forward to the
county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the
lien.
      6.   Right Of Appeal: The property owner shall have the right to appeal
to the city council from any administrative order or finding of fact of the
city manager. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order or
finding of fact of the city manager is rendered.
      7.   Summary Abatement Of Nuisance: Nothing in the provisions of this
section shall prevent the city from abating a dilapidated building as a
nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to protect the health, safety
or welfare of the general public.
      8.   Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees: The officers, employees
and/or agents of the city shall not be liable for any damages or loss of
property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings performed pursuant to the
provisions of this section or as otherwise prescribed by law.
      9.   Exception, Agricultural Use: The provisions of this section shall
not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 435,
10-8-2012)
8-503: BOARDING AND SECURING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or locking
of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the structure.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: A structure that, due to lack of necessary repairs,
is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare
of the general public.
UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or equitable
owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into which
there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
   B.   City Authority; Administration:
      1.   After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in
section
8-502 of this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing down and
removal of a dilapidated building, the city may authorize that such a building
be boarded and secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant and
unfit for human occupancy, the city may authorize the structure to be
demolished pursuant to section
8-502 of this chapter.
      2.   The city manager is hereby designated as the administrative officer
for the city to carry out the duties of the city in this section.
   C.   Cleaning Trash And Weeds: The city may cause the premises on which an
unsecured building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance
with the provisions of section
8-107 of this part.
   D.   Procedure For Boarding And Securing: The city may cause an unsecured
building to be boarded and secured in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   Notice Requirements; Contents:
         a.   Before the city manager orders such action, at least ten (10)
days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, to any property owners and
mortgage holders as provided in section
8-502 of this chapter. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor the
mortgage holder can be located as shown by the return receipt, or if the return
receipt is not returned within ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the
city, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by
publication as defined in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-102. Such notice shall be published one time, not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the city manager pursuant to the provisions
of this section.
         b.   If the city anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of subsection D9 of this section, the notice
shall state that any subsequent need for boarding and securing the building
within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding and securing of the
building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded and secured by the
city; that the costs of such boarding and securing shall be assessed against
the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to secure such
payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage
holder.
      2.   Property Owner Consent For City Boarding And Securing: The owner of
the property may give written consent to the city authorizing the boarding and
securing of such unsecured building and to the payment of any costs incurred
thereby. By giving written consent, the owner waives any right the owner has to
a hearing by the city manager.
      3.   Hearing And Determination By City Manager:
         a.   If the property owner does not give written consent to such
actions, a hearing shall be held by the city manager to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety or welfare.
         b.   Such hearing may be held in conjunction with a hearing on the
accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the premises of such
unsecured building.
         c.   In making such determination, the city shall apply the following
standard: The housing standards board may order the boarding and securing of
the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would make such
building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire hazard
created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building would
constitute an attractive nuisance to children.
         d.   Upon making the required determination, the city manager may
order the boarding and securing of the unsecured building.
      4.   Filing Notice And Lien With County Treasurer: After the city manager
orders the boarding and securing of such unsecured building, the city clerk
shall immediately file a notice of unsecured building and lien with the office
of the Lincoln County clerk, describing the property, stating the findings of
the city manager at the hearing at which such building was determined to be
unsecured, and stating that the city claims a lien on the property for the
costs of boarding and securing such building and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing the
notice.
      5.   Right Of Entry By City: Pursuant to the order of the city manager,
the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the property for the
performance of the boarding and securing of such building and for the
performance of all necessary duties as a governmental function of the city.
      6.   Determination Of Cost; Issuance Of Statement:
         a.   After the unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the
city manager shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including the cost of
the notice and mailing.
         b.   The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual costs
attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured building and a
demand for payment of such costs, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided in section
8-502 of this chapter.
         c.   If the city boards and secures any unsecured building, the cost
to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, materials
and equipment required for the performance of such actions.
         d.   If such actions are done by the city on a private contract basis,
the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      7.   Certified Statement To County Treasurer; Lien; Collection:
         a.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city
clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
cost of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the cost to the Lincoln County treasurer. Once certified to the Lincoln
County treasurer, payment may only be made to the county treasurer, except as
otherwise provided for in this section.
         b.   The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the
county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law.
         c.   Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the county clerk.
         d.   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
county clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid.
         e.   At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall collect a
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be
deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county.
         f.   If the county treasurer and the city agree that the county
treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the city may pursue a civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property.
         g.   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section.
         h.   Upon receiving payment, the city clerk shall forward to the
county treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the
lien.
      8.   Right Of Appeal: The property owner shall have the right to appeal
to the city council from any administrative order or finding of fact of the
city manager. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order or
finding of fact of the city manager is rendered.
      9.   Summary Abatement Of Nuisance; Notice; Costs:
         a.   If the city causes a structure within the city limits to be
boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing within a six
(6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily boarded and
secured without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
         b.   At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the city
shall notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and
securing and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner
may request an appeal before the city council by filing written notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the mailing of the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in this subsection D.
         c.   Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such
boarding and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for in
subsections D6 and D7 of this section.
      10.   Order Of City Manager: The city manager may determine that a
building is unsecured and order that such building be boarded and secured in
the manner provided for in this section even though such building has not been
declared to be dilapidated.
      11.   Exception, Agricultural Property: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural purposes. (Ord.
435, 10-8-2012)
8-504: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
ADVERTISING: Any letter, word, name, number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing,
picture, writing, or other mark of any kind lawfully placed on the property by
an owner or tenant of the property, or an agent of such owner or tenant, for
the purpose of promoting products or services or conveying information to the
public.
GRAFFITI: Means, without limitation, any letter, word, name, number, symbol,
slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of any kind visible
to the public that is drawn, painted, chiseled, scratched or etched on a rock,
tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building or other structure; provided, this
definition shall not include advertising or any other letter, word, name,
number, symbol, slogan, message, drawing, picture, writing, or other mark of
any kind lawfully placed on property by an owner of the property, a tenant of
the property, or by an authorized agent for such owner or tenant.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
REMOVAL, REMOVE OR REMOVED: When used in relation to the eradication of
graffiti, means the act of taking graffiti off of, or masking the presence of
graffiti on, a rock, tree, wall, bridge, fence, gate, building or any other
structure.
TENANT: Any person shown by the records of the county clerk's office as a
lessee of the property, or any person lawfully in actual physical possession of
the property.
   B.   City Authority; Administration:
      1.   The city may cause graffiti to be removed from property within the
city limits in accordance with the following procedure.
      2.   The city manager is hereby designated as the administrative officer
for the city to carry out the duties of the city in this section.
   C.   Graffiti Removal Procedure:
      1.   Property Owner Consent For City Removal: The property owner and the
tenant, if any, may give their written consent to the city authorizing removal
of graffiti. By giving such written consent, the owner and tenant each waives
the right to notice and a hearing by the city manager as otherwise required in
this section.
      2.   City Authority To Remove Without Consent: If the consent of the
property owner and the tenant, if any, to remove graffiti from the property
cannot be obtained, the city may remove the graffiti without such consent
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.
      3.   Notice; Time Limit For Removal:
         a.   To remove graffiti from property without the consent of the
property owner and the tenant, if any, at least ten (10) days' notice shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the address
shown by the current year's tax rolls in the county treasurer's office. Notice
to the tenant, if any, shall be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the property address.
         b.   The notice shall order the property owner and tenant, if any, to
remove graffiti from the property and shall further state that unless such work
is performed within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice, the work shall
be done by the city. In addition, notice shall be given by posting a copy of
the notice on the property at least one time not less than ten (10) days prior
to any hearing or action by the city.
         c.   If the city anticipates summary abatement of graffiti in
accordance with the provisions of subsection D of this section, the notice
shall state that any accumulations of graffiti on the property occurring within
one year from and after the date of the notice may be summarily abated by the
city without a hearing and further prior notice to the property owner or the
tenant, if any, except by posting of notice at least one time on the property
not less than two (2) business days prior to such summary abatement.
      4.   Hearing By City Manager: A hearing may be held by the city manager
to determine whether the accumulation of graffiti on the property has caused
the property to become detrimental or a hazard to the health, safety, or
general welfare of the public and the community.
      5.   Right Of Entry; City Authority: Upon finding that the condition of
the property constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the property, the
public, and the community would be benefited by the removal of such conditions,
the agents of the city are granted the right of entry onto the property for the
removal of the graffiti thereon and for performance of the necessary duties as
a governmental function of the city.
      6.   Right Of Appeal: The property owner and the tenant, if any, shall
have a right of appeal to the city council from any order of the city manager.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the city
clerk within ten (10) business days after the administrative order is rendered.
   D.   Summary Abatement:
      1.   If a notice is given by the city manager to a property owner and
tenant, if any, ordering graffiti to be removed from property within the city
limits in accordance with the procedure provided for in subsection C of this
section, any subsequent accumulations of graffiti on the property occurring
within a one year period may be summarily abated without further mailing or
publishing prior notice to the property owner or tenant, if any. However, prior
to the summary abatement by the city, notice thereof shall be posted at least
one time on the property not less than two (2) business days prior to such
summary abatement.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply if the records of the county clerk
show that the ownership and/or tenancy of the property was transferred after
notice was given pursuant to subsection C of this section.
   E.   Removal At City Expense: Removal of graffiti by the city pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be performed at the sole expense of the
city. In removing the graffiti, the city shall restore the property as nearly
as possible to the condition as it existed immediately prior to the graffiti
being placed on the property.
   F.   Abatement As Nuisance: Nothing in the provisions of this section shall
prevent the city from abating graffiti as a nuisance or otherwise exercising
its police power to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
   G.   Nonliability Of City Officers And Employees: The city and its officers,
employees or agents shall not be liable for any damages or loss of property due
to the removal of graffiti performed pursuant to the provisions of this
section. (Ord. 435, 10-8-2012)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES
SECTION:
8-601: Smoking Declared A Public Nuisance
8-602: Definitions
8-603: Prohibited Conduct
8-604: Required Signs
8-605: Penalties And Enforcement
8-601: SMOKING DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and dangerous to
public health and is hereby prohibited within the City of Prague when such
possession is in any indoor place used by or open to the public, public
transportation, or any indoor workplace, except where specifically allowed by
law. (Ord. 431, 2-13-2012)
8-602: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
INDOOR AREA: Means any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor
area includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by
employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: Means all buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the City including but not limited to
vehicles and equipment owned by the Municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Means any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: Means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption. Tobacco product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Means any noncombustible product, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device. (Ord. 467, 9-11-
2017)
8-603: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products is prohibited by Oklahoma State law.
   B.   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
Municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property, even if the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise prohibited in that
area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   F.   No person shall dispose of tobacco product or vapor product waste
within an area in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited.
   G.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 467, 9-11-2017)
8-604: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by this
chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point of
entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2 inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather- resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch
(1"), and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that
a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the City Manager or his/her designee
shall be responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal property, both
indoor and outdoor.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products
in violation of any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 467, 9-11-2017)
   E.   In addition to the above, any person who owns or operates a public
place shall also ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon observation of anyone
violating the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 431, 2-13-2012; amd. Ord. 467,
9-11-2017)
8-605: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Police
Department. In addition, any peace officer or Code enforcement official may
enforce this chapter.
   B.   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter shall be punished by a
citation and a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00), in accordance
with section
1-108 of this Code.
   C.   The possession of a lighted tobacco product in violation of this
chapter is a nuisance.
   D.   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   E.   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
   F.   The use of a vapor product in violation of this chapter is a nuisance.
   G.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use shall
also constitute a violation of this article.
   H.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use
may be remedied by the City Attorney, including, but not limited to,
administrative or judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, Criminal Code
enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief. (Ord. 467, 9-11-2017)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO USE ON CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED
SECTION:
8-701: Definitions
8-702: Prohibition Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products On City-Owned/
Operated Property
8-703: Posting
8-704: Violation And Penalty
8-705: Enforcement
8-701: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
INDOOR AREA: Means any indoor City-owned/operated property. An indoor area
includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms,
employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees or
the public, and all space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or
totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or
closed windows, stairways, or the like. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to such indoor areas at any given time, whether or not work is being
performed.
OUTDOOR AREA: Means any covered area, partially covered area or area open to
the sky that is on a property owned or operated by the City.
RECREATIONAL AREA: Means any area that is owned, controlled or used by the City
of Prague and open to the general public for recreational purposes, regardless
of any fee or age requirement. The term "recreational area" includes but is not
limited to parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf courses,
walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails, swimming
pools, roller- and ice-skating rinks, beaches surrounding lakes and skateboard
parks.
TOBACCO-FREE: Means to prohibit the use of any tobacco product by anyone,
anywhere, at any time.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that contains or is derived from tobacco and
is intended for human consumption excluding drugs or devices approved for
cessation by the United States Food and Drug Administration. This includes e-
cigarettes and vapor products, with or without nicotine.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Shall mean noncombustible products, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. "Vapor
products" do not include any products regulated by the United States Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 459, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-9-2015)
8-702: PROHIBITION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS ON CITY-OWNED/
OPERATED PROPERTY:
   A.   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and
dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is in
any indoor or outdoor areas owned or operated by this City.
   B.   All buildings and other properties, including indoor and outdoor areas,
owned or operated by this City, shall be entirely tobacco free to include all
forms of tobacco products including vapor products.
   C.   All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned or operated by this
City, shall be entirely tobacco free to include all forms of tobacco products
including vapor products. (Ord. 459, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-9-2015)
8-703: POSTING:
   A.   The City of Prague shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at
least four inches by two inches in size, at each entrance of City owned/
operated property indicating the property is tobacco-free.
   B.   The posting of signs or decals is the responsibility of the Manager
and/or Supervisor of the City owned/operated facility. (Ord. 459, 11-9-2015,
eff. 11-9-2015)
8-704: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as set by
the City. (Ord. 459, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-9-2015)
8-705: ENFORCEMENT:
The State or local governmental agency shall, at a minimum, do the following in
order to prevent tobacco and vapor product use in City owned/operated places:
   A.   Post signs at entrances to City owned/operated places which state that
tobacco use is prohibited; and
   B.   Ask tobacco users to refrain from using any form of tobacco products,
including vapor products upon observation of anyone violating the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 459, 11-9-2015, eff. 11-9-2015)
CHAPTER 8
COVID-19
SECTION:
8-801: Definition
8-802: Face Coverings Required
8-803: Guidelines For Face Coverings
8-804: Exceptions
8-805: Effective And Expiration Dates And Times
8-806: Enforcement
8-807: Violations And Penalties
8-808: Defense To Violation
8-801: DEFINITION:
   A.   The term "face covering" as used in this article shall mean a uniform
piece of material that securely covers a person's nose and mouth and remains
affixed in place without the use of one's hands and/or a face shield.
   B.   The term "Public Place" as used in this article shall mean any place
owned and operated by the City of Prague, Oklahoma or its subsidiary or
authorized agent. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-802: FACE COVERINGS REQUIRED:
All persons shall wear face coverings when entering and while inside any indoor
Public Place within the Prague Municipal Airport. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-803: GUIDELINES FOR FACE COVERINGS:
The public is encouraged to wear face coverings that;
   A.   Fit snugly but comfortably against the side of the face;
   B.   Are secured;
   C.   Allow for breathing without restrictions; and
   D.   Face coverings may be made of disposable or non-disposable materials.
(Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-804: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall require the wearing of face coverings by:
   A.   persons under 11 years of age; and
   B.   persons with a development disability, including persons who are deaf
and hard of hearing. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-805: EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES AND TIMES:
This article will become effective and enforceable upon adoption by City
Council, and shall not expire until the City Council adopts a resolution or
ordinance causing the article to expire. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-806: ENFORCEMENT:
This article may be enforced by any legally authorized code-enforcement
inspectors or sworn police officers, as follows: authorized LCHD inspectors,
authorized Development Services Department Inspectors, and sworn peace officers
of the Prague Police Department. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-807: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Inspectors and officers, at the initial contact, shall offer a face
covering or the option of leaving the indoor place to a person who is not
excepted from the face covering requirement. No citation shall be issued to a
person who complies with one of the options. Failure to wear the face covering
or failure to leave the indoor place shall constitute a violation of this
article.
   B.   A violation of this article shall constitute a class "a" offense. Each
violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction,
the penalty shall not exceed, for the first and second offenses, a $9 fine
only.
      A third or subsequent violation shall constitute a class "a" offense, and
shall require a mandatory appearance in the Municipal Court and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable with a penalty not exceeding $100 inclusive of
costs and State-mandated fees.
   C.   the amount of the penalty which may be accepted by the Department of
Court Administration in satisfaction of first and second violations of this
article shall be a $9 fine only. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
8-808: DEFENSE TO VIOLATION:
It shall be a defense to any violation of Sections
8-801 through
8-807 of this article if an individual produces a document demonstrating that
his/her/their physician has verified that wearing a face covering could cause
impairment or would constitute a hazard to the individual. (Ord. 487, 8-9-2021)
PART 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Peddlers, Hawkers And Solicitors   1
Sales And Display Booths   2
Garage And Residential Sales   3
Contractors   4
Medical Marijuana   5
CHAPTER 1
PEDDLERS, HAWKERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
9-101: Solicitor's License
9-102: Persons Subject To This Chapter
9-103: Peddler's License
9-104: Unloading Wares On Certain Sidewalks
9-105: Penalty
9-101: SOLICITOR'S LICENSE 1 :
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer for sale,
barter, or exchange at retail, any farm produce, vegetables, poultry, fish,
fruits, nuts, medicines, or other goods, wares, merchandise or services, in the
city without first obtaining a license from the city clerk, except as otherwise
herein provided. (Prior code § 5-1; amd. Ord. 282, 7-14-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-106; 47 OS § 421; 72 OS § 1.
9-102: PERSONS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER:
All persons, firms, or corporations, who sell or offer to sell goods, wares or
merchandise, fruits, nuts, fish, vegetables, medicines, services or any
products, and who go from place to place, shall be deemed peddlers, hawkers and
door to door solicitors and shall come within the provisions of this chapter,
except local farmers who may sell produce at the City Park parking area, and
except for fundraising efforts for nonprofit organizations, without first
obtaining a permit herein called for. (Ord. 418, 7-12-2010)
9-103: PEDDLER'S LICENSE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale any goods, wares or other merchandise on any of the streets, alleys or
vacant lots in the city without having paid a license fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per day for each person engaged in such sales or an annual fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each person engaged in such sales. Corporations or
firms engaging more than two (2) such salespersons, but less than five (5) such
persons may pay the fees above set forth or a sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day for all such salespersons engaged by them or an annual fee of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), whichever is less. All corporations or firms engaging
more than five (5) such salespersons shall pay a daily fee of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) or an annual fee of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation applying for a city sales tax permit
shall first have obtained a state sales tax permit pursuant to the state sales
tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., and subsequent enactments.
A copy of the sales tax permit shall be provided to the city clerk with the
application for the city permit.
   C.   Any person exempt from the requirements of the state sales tax code
shall not be required to obtain a city sales tax permit under this section.
(Ord. 262, 5-10-1982; amd. Ord. 282, 7-14-1986)
9-104: UNLOADING WARES ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS:
It is hereby made unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon
the sidewalk of Broadway Street in the city from the intersection of Twelfth
Street to the Fort Smith And Western Railroad right of way, any goods, wares,
merchandise or other article or obstruction; except that local businesses may
place their merchandise outside their building so long as such merchandise does
not interfere with the public use of the sidewalk. This section shall not
prohibit the loading or unloading of any goods, wares and merchandise into any
building or premises and the use of the sidewalk thereof. (Ord. 418, 7-12-2010)
9-105: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade or occupation, or
exercises any privileges, for which a license or permit is required by this
chapter, without a valid license or permit as hereby required, or who violates
any provision of this chapter, is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Prior code § 5-5; amd. Ord. 282, 7-14-1986)
CHAPTER 2
SALES AND DISPLAY BOOTHS
SECTION:
9-201: Permit
9-202: Fees
9-203: Exceptions
9-201: PERMIT:
A permit shall be required by any person or entity as a prerequisite for
operating a retail sales or display booth during special events such as the
Kolache Festival, July 4 events, etc. Proof of a current Oklahoma sales tax
permit shall be required prior to obtaining such a permit from the City Clerk.
(Ord. 319, 4-10-1995)
9-202: FEES:
There shall be a City fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each license permit
issued for sales and display booths during special events, plus any fees
required by the sponsoring organization. (Ord. 319, 4-10-1995)
9-203: EXCEPTIONS:
All nonprofit organizations which maintain display booths at City special
events shall hereby be exempt from any and all fees levied by this Chapter.
Each nonprofit organization qualifying as an exception to the fees under this
Chapter shall produce sufficient documentation, depending upon the character of
such organization, as may be requested by the City Clerk showing its nonprofit
status. (Ord. 319, 4-10-1995)
CHAPTER 3
GARAGE AND RESIDENTIAL SALES
SECTION:
9-301: Definitions
9-302: License Required; Eligibility
9-303: Application
9-304: Insurance Term Investigation
9-305: Fee
9-306: Revocation Or Refusal
9-307: Interval Between Sales
9-308: Signs
9-309: Display Of Goods
9-310: Persons Exempt From Chapter
9-311: Penalty
9-301: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, "residential sale" means any sale or what is
held out to be or is commonly known as a garage, porch, room, back yard, front
yard or patio sale or any other type of general sale conducted from or on any
premises not located in a zoning district which permits such sales, where goods
or articles of any type are held out for sale to the public. This definition
shall not include a situation where specific items are held out for sale and
all advertisements of such sale specifically name the items to be sold. (Ord.
324, 8-12-1996)
9-302: LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to hold, conduct, engage in or
participate in any manner in a residential sale without first having obtained a
license as provided for in this Chapter.
   B.   The issuance of a license under the provisions of this Chapter shall
not exempt such persons from the terms and provisions of other ordinances or
laws.
   C.   A separate license shall be required for each location at which a
residential sale is to be held. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
   D.   No location shall be eligible for more than four (4) licenses in any
twelve (12) month period unless there has been a change in the ownership of
such location.
   E.   In the event of rain or other seriously inclement weather conditions,
the applicant may return the garage sale license to the City for a rain check.
A rain check shall be used within the twenty one (21) day period and following
the dates initially scheduled for the garage sale and only four (4) rain checks
will be allowed within a twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 324, as amended, 4-14-
1997)
9-303: APPLICATION:
An applicant for a license shall furnish the City Clerk with the following
information:
   A.   Full name and address of applicant or applicants;
   B.   The location at which the proposed residential sale is to be held; and
(Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
   C.   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held. (Ord. 324 as
amended, 4-14-1997)
9-304: INSURANCE TERM INVESTIGATION:
   A.   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to grant a license for a
residential sale for a period not to exceed two (2) consecutive days to any
person applying who otherwise complies with the requirements of this Chapter
and the ordinances of the City.
   B.   If a residential sale is not held on the dates for which the license is
issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement
weather conditions, and an affidavit by the license holder to this effect is
submitted, the City Clerk may issue another license to the applicant for a
residential sale to be conducted at the same location within twenty one (21)
days from the date when the first sale was to be held.
   C.   Before issuing a residential sale license, the City Clerk may conduct
such investigation as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is
compliance with this Chapter or City ordinances. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
9-305: FEE:
For the purpose of helping to defray the cost of inspection and enforcement of
this Chapter, there is hereby levied a fee for residential sale license in the
amount as set by the Council by motion or resolution. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
9-306: REVOCATION OR REFUSAL:
Any license issued under this Chapter may be revoked or any application for
issuance of a license may be refused by the City Clerk if the application
submitted by the applicant or license holder contains any false, fraudulent or
misleading statement. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
9-307: INTERVAL BETWEEN SALES:
No person shall hold, conduct or engage in or participate in any manner or
allow a residential sale to be held or conducted on premises under his control
or ownership more than four (4) times in any twelve (12) month period with at
least seven (7) days between sales, subject, however, to the exceptions allowed
in this Chapter. (Ord. 324 as amended, 4-14-1997)
9-308: SIGNS:
   A.   Not more than five (5) signs or other devices used for the purpose of
advertising, or otherwise calling attention to a residential sale, shall be
allowed for each residential sale licensed under this Chapter. One sign, or
device, shall be located on the immediate premises where the sale is to be
conducted. The remaining four (4) signs, or devices, shall be located off the
immediate premises where the sale is to be conducted. The display surface of
such sign, or device, shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet on each side.
   B.   All signs, or devices, advertising the residential sale must be removed
within forty eight (48) hours after the residential sale license has expired.
Failure to remove the signs or devices within forty eight (48) hours will
result in a fine as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
9-309: DISPLAY OF GOODS:
The sale area of any residential sale shall be confined to the premises for
which the license has been issued. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
9-310: PERSONS EXEMPT FROM CHAPTER:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons:
   A.   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   C.   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auction; (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
   D.   Nonprofit organizations, churches, schools, civic organizations, Boy
Scouts, etc.; or
   E.   Any Citywide garage sale. (Ord. 324 as amended, 4-14-1997)
9-311: PENALTY:
Any person who violates Section
9-302 of this Chapter shall be punished by fine as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 324, 8-12-1996)
CHAPTER 4
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
9-401: Contractor's License
9-402: Registration
9-403: Persons Subject To This Chapter
9-404: Licensure Fees
9-405: Penalty
9-401: CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE:
It is unlawful for any contractor to practice his or her trade within the
limits of the City of Prague without first obtaining a license from the City
Clerk. (Ord. 478, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-402: REGISTRATION:
All persons or entities subject to this chapter shall register themselves or
their entities with the City Clerk and shall be required to provide the
following information:
   A.   Proof of insurance;
   B.   License number;
   C.   Contact information for individual or the owner/manager of an entity.
(Ord. 478, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-403: PERSONS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER:
All persons, firms, or business organizations currently licensed by the State
of Oklahoma or trade organization to practice a trade are subject to this
chapter. (Ord. 478, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-404: LICENSURE FEES:
The fee schedule for licensure fees shall be set by resolution. (Ord. 478, 9-
10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-405: PENALTY:
Any person or entity who engages in its trade as a contractor for which a
license is required by this chapter, or who violates any provision of this
chapter, is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 478, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 5
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
9-501: Medical Marijuana Establishments
9-502: Inspection
9-503: Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use; Security
9-504: Smell Or Noxious Odor
9-501: MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   All commercial marijuana growers, commercial marijuana processors,
commercial marijuana transporters, retail marijuana dispensaries, licensed
packagers, wholesale facilities, and research facilities are required to obtain
a permit from the City Clerk. These establishments are defined as any medical
marijuana establishment licensed by the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   The Board of Trustees will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
permit for each of the above described entities. The fee shall be used to
offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of the above described entities.
   C.   Only retail marijuana dispensaries shall be located in areas zoned C-2.
   D.   Only commercial marijuana processors, commercial marijuana
transporters, licensed packagers, and wholesale facilities shall be located in
areas zoned I-2.
   E.   Commercial marijuana growers shall be prohibited from being located in
areas zoned A. Only marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall
be located in areas zoned A.
   F.   A permit will not be granted to any applicants where the proposed
location would be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the
following uses:
      1.   Private or public preschool, elementary, middle, high school,
secondary, vocational or trade school, college or university;
      2.   Any juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      3.   Any commercial daycare facilities;
      4.   Another licensed establishment, unless such establishment is owned
and operated by the same entity and is located on adjacent or contiguous lots.
   G.   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection F of this section is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located.
   H.   Buildings or transportation vehicles where marijuana is stored or
dispensed must be equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no
odors are detectable off premises.
   I.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
permit, and a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day while the violation
exists.
   J.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to: 1) allow persons to
engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public nuisance; 2) allow the use
of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or 3) allow any activity that is
otherwise illegal and not permitted by State law. (Ord. 476, 9-10-2018, eff.
10-1-2018)
9-502: INSPECTION:
   A.   All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection by
an authorized City employee or agent prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and City.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
(Ord. 476, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-503: MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE; SECURITY:
   A.   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use are
required to obtain a permit from the City Clerk.
   B.   The Board of Trustees will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit. The fee shall be
used to offset Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing,
inspection, administration and enforcement of marijuana growing facilities for
personal medical use.
   C.   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failing to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   D.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   E.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   F.   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right- of-way.
   G.   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used, shall comply with applicable Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) watts
per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone
generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   H.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
   I.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   J.   Growing marijuana for personal use without first obtaining a license
from the State of Oklahoma and a permit from the City Clerk is punishable by a
fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day while the violation exists. (Ord.
476, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
9-504: SMELL OR NOXIOUS ODOR:
The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of marijuana by a
person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana license shall be
treated as a public nuisance. (Ord. 476, 9-10-2018, eff. 10-1-2018)
PART 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
Offenses In General   1
Offenses Against Property   2
Offenses Against The Public   3
Offenses Against The Health, Welfare
And Morals   4
Offenses Against Persons   5
Offenses Against Public Authority   6
Penalties   7
Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages
By Minors   8
Tobacco Products   9
Youth Access To Tobacco   10
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
10-101: Attempts To Commit An Offense
10-102: Aiding In An Offense
10-101: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
City, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-102: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (Prior Code, Chapter
14)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-201: Petit Larceny Prohibited
10-202: Receiving Stolen Property
10-203: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
10-204: Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
10-205: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
10-206: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
10-207: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
10-208: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
10-209: Illegal Entrance
10-210: Throwing Advertising On Street Prohibited
10-211: Throwing Injurious Substances
10-212: Injury To Plants And Trees
10-213: Public Streets And Trees
10-214: Trespass Prohibited
10-215: Parking On Property Of Another
10-216: Interference With Fire Hydrants
10-217: Covering Building Windows And Doors
10-201: PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to
deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the "person" of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code ch. 14)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 1704, 1706.
10-202: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful to buy, receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or to conceal, withhold, or aid in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   B.   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry to buy, receive,
conceal, withhold or aid in concealing or withholding any property which has
been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof. (Prior code ch. 14)
 
Notes
1 2. 21 OS § 1713.
10-203: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior code ch. 14)
10-204: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (Prior code ch. 14)
10-205: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (Prior
Code, Chapter 14)
10-206: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in the case
where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-207: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the gas,
water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other way so
as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of
any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system. (Prior Code,
Chapter 14)
10-208: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the City without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the City, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-209: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE 1 :
It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 10-214 of this Chapter.
10-210: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter. (Prior Code, Chapter
14)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Section 10-205 of this Chapter.
10-211: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (Prior Code, Chapter
14)
10-212: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the City, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground. Any
person violating this Section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-213: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the City;
      2.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the City;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the City; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the City Inspector so to do.
   B.   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the Street Superintendent or City Engineer. (Prior Code,
Chapter 14)
10-214: TRESPASS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   For the purpose of this Section, the following terms shall be defined
as follows:
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the Federal, State or Municipal government or any subdivision thereof exercises
control.
TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the
agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
"Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
subsection.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property. (Prior
Code, Chapter 14)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 10-209 of this Chapter.
10-215: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-216: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the City
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stopcock belonging to the City.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-217: COVERING BUILDING WINDOWS AND DOORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cover a building door
and/or window aperture with plywood or other material for a period of time in
excess of thirty (30) days. This section shall not apply to the covering of
said apertures as part of a remodeling and renovation effort on the building.
Evidence of said remodeling and renovation shall be a city permit issued to the
owner of said property.
   B.   Each day that a violation of this section occurs shall be considered a
separate violation and each day a violation occurs shall subject the defendant
to a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day. (Ord. 371, 3-11-2002)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-301: Disturbing The Peace
10-302: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
10-303: Literature Or Language Ridiculing Religion
10-304: Shooting, Sale Of Fireworks Prohibited; Exceptions
10-305: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
10-306: Carrying Weapons; Exceptions
10-307: Reckless Conduct
10-308: Discharging Firearms; Exceptions
10-309: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited; Amplified Sound
10-301: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-302: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the City to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the City, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate, distribute, demonstrate any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting
language, gesture, disrobing and/or exposure of private body parts or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language, gesture or literature is to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language, gesture or literature, in its common acceptance, is
calculated to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (Ord. 358, 8-14-2000)
10-303: LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION:
It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute or circulate any
literature or language within the corporate limits of the City that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in its common acceptance
is calculated or where the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (Prior Code ch. 14)
10-304: SHOOTING, SALE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS 1 , 2 :
   A.   Use Prohibited Unless By Qualified Individuals: The discharge, firing
or use of fireworks, rockets, torpedoes, Roman candles, or other fireworks or
substance designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, and of pistols, cones,
cannons or other appliances, using blank cartridges or caps containing chlorate
of potash mixture, is hereby prohibited. However, the Mayor or City Council may
order the public display of fireworks by properly qualified individuals. Such
public displays shall be of such character and so located, discharged or fired
as, in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department shall not be hazardous
to surrounding property or endanger any person or persons.
   B.   Sale At Retail: The sale of fireworks at retail is prohibited. The
Chiefs of the Fire or Police Departments, may, at their discretion, remove or
have removed, at the owner's expense, all stocks of fireworks or other
combustibles exposed for sale or held in stock in violation of this section.
   C.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall have the
meaning set forth in State law, section 1622 of title 68 of the Oklahoma
Statutes. (Prior Code §§ 8-8, 8-9)
   D.   Exceptions: The discharge of fireworks shall be allowed within the City
limits on each Fourth (4th) Day of July between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., so long as the discharging of said
fireworks are not hazardous to the surrounding property or endangering of any
person or persons. (Ord. 465, 6-12-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS §§ 1624, 1621 et seq.
2 2. See also section 13-101 of this Code.
   
10-305: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the City any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five (5) pounds where the same is securely kept. (Prior Code ch. 14)
10-306: CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his person any
pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring-
type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code ch. 14)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS § 2189.1 et seq.
10-307: RECKLESS CONDUCT 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in his
possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of creating a
situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to
another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another
person. (Prior Code ch. 14)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 15-523 of this Code.
10-308: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
No person shall discharge any species of firearm, in the City except when doing
so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the City.
(Prior Code ch. 14)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-206 of this part.
10-309: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   Loud Sounds Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to disturb the
peace and quietude of any part of the City by operating, having operated, or
permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor
vehicle, or any other device, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner
as to emit loud music, noise or words. However, this section shall not prohibit
religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious
music. (Prior Code ch. 14)
   B.   Residences And Motor Vehicles: No person occupying a residence or
operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street, highway, alley, parking
lot, or driveway shall operate or permit the operation of any sound
amplification system from within the residence or vehicle so that the sound is
plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) or more feet from the residence or
vehicle.
   C.   Definitions:
    PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system from
within the vehicle which clearly can be heard at a distance of fifty feet (50')
or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and base
reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked
or moving on a street, highway, alley, parking lot, or driveway.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker, or any other electronic device used for the amplification of the
human voice.
   D.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this section that the operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from
operating the sound amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      1.   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      2.   The vehicle was owned and operated by the City, or public or private
utility company;
      3.   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      4.   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, or other activities which have been approved
by the City Council or City Manager.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 301, 7-13-1992)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
10-401: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
10-402: Possession Of Intoxicating Beverages
10-403: Intoxicating Liquors
10-404: Narcotics And Dangerous Drugs Prohibited
10-405: Prostitution And Lewd Conduct
10-406: Disorderly House
10-407: Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House
10-408: Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House
10-409: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
10-410: Definitions; Obscenity Regulations
10-411: Prohibited Obscene Conduct
10-412: Vagrancy Defined For Specific Acts, Offenses
10-413: Curfew For Children
10-414: Sleeping In Public
10-415: Begging Prohibited
10-416: Gambling Prohibited
10-417: Being About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
10-418: Harmful Deception
10-419: False Or Bogus Checks
10-401: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place in the City in a state of intoxication. It is
unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage, as defined by
section 163.1 of title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes, upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place within the City. It is unlawful to use, sell or
furnish to another any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the City except
as legally prescribed by a physician.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a "state of intoxication" means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any narcotic or drug, to such extent
as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental power, or in
which a person is a danger to himself or others. (Ord. 474, 9-10-2018)
10-402: POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any intoxicating alcoholic beverage while such person is
upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place within the City
limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, intoxicating beverage shall be as
defined by title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes. (Prior Code ch. 14)
10-403: INTOXICATING LIQUORS:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind except as permitted by
law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or
beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the City any intoxicating liquor or beverage except as
permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered,
given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished
in violation of law. (Ord. 474, 9-10-2018)
10-404: NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana, opium, narcotic or
controlled dangerous drug;
      2.   To use, have or possess marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled
dangerous drug upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or other public
place within the City;
      3.   To use marijuana, opium, narcotic or controlled dangerous drug in
any place within the City except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed
to practice in the State;
      4.   To loiter about a place where marijuana, opium, narcotic or
controlled dangerous drug is sold or furnished illegally; or
      5.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, opium,
narcotic or controlled dangerous drug.
   B.   The term "controlled dangerous drug" shall have the meaning prescribed
by section
2-101 of title 63 of the Oklahoma Statutes for "controlled dangerous
substance". (Ord. 209, 10-4-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
10-405: PROSTITUTION AND LEWD CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution or in any other manner engage in the activities of a pimp;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution or obscenity;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      6.   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of prostitution; or
      7.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution.
   B.   Definitions for the purposes of this Section:
    LETTING PREMISES FOR OBSCENITY: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
obscenity or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
   LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-406: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by State statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this City or statutes of
this State regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent alcohol
by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by State statute
or City ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any State statute or City ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-407: MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   B.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home,
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (Prior Code, Chapter
14)
10-408: RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE:
No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this Section, the City shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This Section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties. (Prior Code, Chapter
14)
10-409: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Appear in any public place in the City in a state of nudity;
      2.   Appear in any public place in the City in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
      3.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (Prior Code,
Chapter 14)
10-410: DEFINITIONS; OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
The following terms when used in this Chapter shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or attended
on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a separate fee
for each item or performance.
DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material or
any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
OBSCENE: That to the average person applying contemporary community standards:
   A.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to prurient
interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity, or
excretion; and
   B.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner sexual
conduct regulated by title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and
   C.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1983 Code)
10-411: PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
      2.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      3.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         d.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   B.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of Section
10-410 of this Chapter and this Section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not
acting as director or manager of the theater. (1983 Code)
10-412: VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR SPECIFIC ACTS, OFFENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the City. For the
purposes of this Section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains
in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of the following
purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
Section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (Prior
Code, Chapter 14)
10-413: CURFEW FOR CHILDREN:
   A.   For the purpose of this Section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted to amusement
or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above.
   B.   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play in any
public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the City between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through
Friday and between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday and Sunday unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
between the hours of curfew designated in subsection B of this Section.
   D.   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
City between the hours of curfew designated in subsection B of this Section.
The provisions of this Section do not apply if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the City Police Department.
   E.   The Council may permit by resolution or motion procedures for advance
notice or registration with the City of special events or functions sponsored
by churches, schools, clubs or other organizations which require minors to be
out at a later time. The Council may also prescribe the procedures for taking
into custody minors found in violation of this Section. (1983 Code)
10-414: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or
on any property of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-415: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-416: GAMBLING PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      1.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      2.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      3.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      4.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this Section.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense against the City for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-108.
10-417: BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON:
It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device, or otherwise. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-418: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-419: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument
or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or
orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within one hundred eighty (180) days after
same is delivered and accepted. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-501: Assault And Battery Prohibited
10-501: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED:
   A.   An assault is any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   B.   A battery is any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   C.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the City. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the City, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 14)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-601: Resisting An Officer
10-602: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
10-603: Assault Or Battery Upon Police Or Other Law Officer
10-604: Rescuing Prisoners
10-605: Escape Of Prisoners
10-606: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
10-607: False Alarms
10-608: False Representation To An Officer
10-609: Removal Of Barricades
10-610: Resisting Public Officials
10-601: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with the Police Chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the City.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest
or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front
of an approaching officer.
   C.   "Resisting an officer" is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and
authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve
any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to
know that the person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting
in his official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-602: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the City making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the City or with State or Federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the City to refuse or fail to do so. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-603: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-604: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue
or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or
employee of the City having legal custody of the same or from the City jail or
other place of confinement by the City, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction,
including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-605: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person confined in the City jail or other place of
confinement by the City, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the City in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the City, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-606: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
City, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the City, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the City without being duly authorized to do so. (Prior
Code, Chapter 14)
10-607: FALSE ALARM:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-608: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the City government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the City. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-609: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the City to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
10-610: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the City in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (Prior Code,
Chapter 14)
CHAPTER 7
PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-701: General Penalties
10-701: GENERAL PENALTIES:
Any violation of the provisions of this Part is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Chapter 14)
CHAPTER 8
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS
SECTION:
10-801: Definitions
10-802: Consumption Of Alcohol By Minor In Public Place, Place Open To The
Public Or Place Not Open To The Public
10-803: Hosting, Permitting Or Allowing A Party, Gathering Or Event Where
Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic Beverages Is Prohibited
10-804: Reservation Of Legal Options
10-801: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) or more, of alcohol by volume and which is
fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with
other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point
beer" as defined herein.
GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A. A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
B. A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the court.
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain, malt or similar products.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place or premises, including
any commercial or business premises.
RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with respect to responses by law
enforcement, fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering,
including, but not limited to: a) salaries and benefits of law enforcement,
code enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel for the amount of
time spent responding to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with a gathering,
and the administrative cost attributable to such responses; b) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire or other
emergency response personnel injured, responding to, remaining at or leaving
the scene of a gathering; c) the cost of repairing any city equipment or
property damaged, and the cost of the use of any such equipment in responding
to, remaining at or leaving the scene of a gathering; and d) any other
allowable costs relating to the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 408, 12-8-
2008)
10-802: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY MINOR IN PUBLIC PLACE, PLACE OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC OR PLACE NOT OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   A.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public alcoholic
beverage; or
   B.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage by a minor
who is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 408, 12-
8-2008)
10-803: HOSTING, PERMITTING OR ALLOWING A PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT WHERE
MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IS PROHIBITED:
   A.   1. It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises, either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage, had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection A1 of this
section.
   B.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   C.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering intoxicated and
is found in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in
the same manner as at a nonfamily gathering.
   D.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any religious
practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor leaves such a
religious gathering intoxicated, and is found to be in public, then said
providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as at a
nonreligious gathering.
   E.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the state of
Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   F.   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory penalties. (Ord. 408, 12-8-
2008)
10-804: RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS:
   A.   Violations of this chapter may be prosecuted by the city of Prague
criminally, civilly and/or administratively as provided by this code. The city
may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with enforcement of
this section by using all remedies or procedures provided by statute, ordinance
or law. This section shall not limit the authority of peace officers or private
citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of conduct
regulated by section
10-802 of this chapter, nor shall they limit the city's ability to initiate and
prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances
necessitating the application of this section.
   B.   This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state or
federal law. (Ord. 408, 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 9
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
10-901: Tobacco Vending Machines
10-902: Display Of Tobacco Age Restriction Signage
10-903: Public Access To Tobacco Products
10-904: Tobacco Paraphernalia
10-901: TOBACCO VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   Conditions For Operation Of Vending Machines: It shall be unlawful for
the owner or manager of any building or business, and any other person in
lawful possession or control of the space upon which a tobacco vending machine
sets, to permit or allow to be operated a tobacco vending machine unless:
      1.   In areas of factories, businesses, offices or other places that are
not open to the public; and
      2.   In places that are open to the public but to which persons under
eighteen (18) years of age are not permitted.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
any second and subsequent offense. (Ord. 430, 2-13-2012)
10-902: DISPLAY OF TOBACCO AGE RESTRICTION SIGNAGE:
   A.   Any person who sells or displays tobacco products at retail must post
conspicuously at the place of business a sign stating the following:
It is the law. We do not sell tobacco to persons under eighteen (18) years of
age.
The sign shall also provide a toll free telephone number for the purposes of
reporting violations of the prevention of youth access to tobacco act.
   B.   The violation of this section carries a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine for each day the violation occurs. (Ord. 430, 2-13-2012)
10-903: PUBLIC ACCESS TO TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to display or offer for sale tobacco
products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco product without
assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an employee or
owner of the store.
   B.   If the business does not admit into the store persons under eighteen
(18) years of age, this section does not apply.
   C.   Any person violating this section shall be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a first offense, and fined two hundred dollars ($200.00) for any
second or subsequent offense. (Ord. 430, 2-13-2012)
10-904: TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner to a
person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age any material or device used
in the smoking, chewing or other method of consumption of tobacco, including
cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of all types, and other
items designed primarily for the smoking or ingesting of tobacco products. Any
violation of this section shall be punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine for each offense. (Ord. 430, 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 10
YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
10-1001: Definitions
10-1001: Unlawful To Sell Or Furnish Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Product To
Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
10-1003: Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
10-1004: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco, Nicotine Or Vapor Products
10-1005: Enforcement
10-1001: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
                  Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated from
                  plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified
NICOTINE PRODUCT: organic matter, or that is synthetic in origin and is
                  intended for human consumption; provided, however, this term
                  shall not include products approved by the United States Food
                  and Drug Administration for smoking cessation;
                  Any product that contains nicotine extracted or isolated from
                  plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified
NICOTINE PRODUCT: organic matter, or that is synthetic in origin and is
                  intended for human consumption; provided, however, this term
                  shall not include products approved by the United States Food
                  and Drug Administration for smoking cessation;
PERSON:           Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation,
                  trust, or association, however formed;
                  A driver license, license for identification only, or other
                  generally accepted means of identification that describes the
PROOF OF AGE:     individual as twenty-one (21) years of age or older and
                  contains a photograph or other likeness of the individual and
                  appears on its face to be valid;
                  A tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product
SAMPLE:           distributed to members of the public at no cost for the
                  purpose of promoting the product;
SAMPLING:         The distribution of samples to members of the public in a
                  public place;
TOBACCO PRODUCT:  Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
                  consumption;
                  The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
                  transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or
                  other government- issued photo identification; used at a
TRANSACTION SCAN: point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
                  electronically readable format the information encoded on the
                  magnetic strip or bar code of a driver license or other
                  government-issued photo identification; and
                  Non-combustible products, that may or may not contain
                  nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery,
                  electronic circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape
                  or size, that can be used to produce a vapor in a solution or
                  other form. "Vapor products" shall include any vapor
                  cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or
                  other form that is intended to be used with an electronic
VAPOR PRODUCT:    cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
                  pipe, or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or
                  other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
                  nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an
                  electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo
                  or electronic device. "Vapor products" do not include any
                  products regulated by the United States Food and Drug
                  Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drag, and
                  Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 489, 2-14-2022)
 
10-1002: UNLAWFUL TO SELL OR FURNISH TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCT TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product, nicotine product or vapor product to another person who is
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco
product, nicotine product or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor products when required in
performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one
(21) years of age.
      If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   C.   Any violation of subsection A or B of this article is an offense
against the City of Prague; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator
shall be punished as follows:
      1.   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($ 100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
within a two-year period following the first offense;
      3.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for the third offense
within a two-year period following the first offense. In addition to any other
penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or nicotine products or
the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly engaged in the
sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is merely incidental
may be suspended for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, or
      4.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other penalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or
nicotine products or the store's sales tax permit for a store that is
predominantly engaged in the sale of vapor products in which the sale of other
products is merely incidental may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty
(60) days.
   D.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
      1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product,
nicotine product or vapor product presented a driver license or other
government- issued photo identification purporting to establish that such
individual was twenty-one (21) years of age or older, or
      2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law. (Ord. 489, 2-14-2022)
10-1003: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or other facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      3.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense. (Ord. 489, 2-14-2022)
10-1004: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO, NICOTINE OR VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, nicotine products, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco products, nicotine products or vapor
products without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco products,
nicotine products or vapor products or an employee or the owner of the store.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores which do not
admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord.
489, 2-14-2022)
10-1005: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this Article and any compliance
checks by a municipal police officer pursuant to subsection C of this section
shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE)
Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or compliance check. Such
reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
Convictions shall be reported by the Court Administrator/Court Clerk or his
designee and compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police or his
designee.
   B.   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission,
shall be considered together in such determination.
   C.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in compliance checks and enforcement of this
Article pursuant to the rules of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 489, 2-14-2022)
PART 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
Parks And Recreation   1
Cemetery   2
Library Department Board   3
Lake Regulations   4
General Provisions   4A
Boating Regulations   4B
Fishing Regulations   4C
Hunting Regulations   4D
Camping   4E
General Provisions Relating To Camping,
Hunting, Fishing And Boating   4F
Penalties For Violation   4G
Pavilion Regulations   4H
CHAPTER 1
PARKS AND RECREATION
SECTION:
11-101: Park Maintenance
11-102: Time Limit
11-103: Persons Subject To This Chapter
11-104: Alcoholic Beverages
11-105: Solicitors
11-106: Littering
11-107: Parks, Recreation And Tourism Board
11-108: Powers And Duties
11-109: Members To Serve Without Compensation
11-101: PARK MAINTENANCE:
All parks or recreational facilities within the corporate city limits are
maintained by the city. All rules and regulations governing the city parks and
other recreational facilities is the responsibility of the city council. (Ord.
206, 9-6-1977)
11-102: TIME LIMIT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to gather or remain in any of the
municipal parks later than the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until
sunrise the following day. This provision is not to be considered with regard
to organized parties or groups using the swimming pool or tennis facilities.
   B.   The city may at its discretion suspend the above referred to hours on
holidays and special occasions when organized celebrations are taking place.
However, the organizers of such groups or celebrations should notify the city
seven (7) days prior to such meeting. (Ord. 206, 9-6-1977)
11-103: PERSONS SUBJECT TO THIS CHAPTER:
Every person, group or organization which are residents of the city or guests
therein, shall come within the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 206, 9-6-1977)
11-104: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It is unlawful for any person whomsoever to sell or consume any type of
alcoholic beverage within any of the municipal parks or other recreational
facilities. Any person found guilty of the above offense, upon conviction,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   A.   Exception: Organized special events or festivals that have been
permitted, sponsored or otherwise approved by the city of Prague may allow for
the sale of wine and beer and consumption of those alcoholic beverages sold if
individual vendors that participate in the event obtain a special permit from
the city of Prague. Permit applications and other permit requirements may be
obtained from the city of Prague. Failure to comply with the permitting
application process or its regulations will result in a violation of this
section and a fine against any violator. Additionally, consumption of any
alcoholic beverage on the property of any municipal park or recreational
facility not purchased from a properly permitted vendor will result in a
violation of this section and a fine against any violator. (Ord. 428, 1-9-2012)
11-105: SOLICITORS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any part or parcel
of any park or recreational facility of this city for the purpose of sale,
barter, or exchange at retail or wholesale, without first obtaining a peddler's
license as set forth in part 9, chapter 1 of this code. (Ord. 206, 9-6-1977)
11-106: LITTERING:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit paper, bottles, cans, or any other
type of refuse whatsoever upon any recreational facility or municipal park
within the city. Any person who violates this section is guilty of the offense
of littering and upon conviction shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 206, 9-6-1977)
11-107: PARKS, RECREATION AND TOURISM BOARD:
   A.   There is hereby established the board of parks, recreation and tourism
commissioners which shall consist of five (5) members to be appointed by the
city council. The members shall serve terms as follows: (Ord. 261, 5-10-1982;
amd. Ord. 419, 7-12-2010)
      1.   Members one, three and five shall serve terms of two (2) years and
until their successors are appointed and qualified; and
      2.   Members two and four shall serve terms of three (3) years and until
their successors are appointed and qualified.
   B.   The city council shall, at this time of appointment, designate the
member position held by each appointee. (Ord. 261, 5-10-1982)
11-108: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The powers and duties of the parks, recreation and tourism board shall
be as provided by applicable state law or ordinances.
   B.   The parks, recreation and tourism board shall be involved in the
oversight of and development of activities that are held in the city parks, and
activities that promote recreation and tourism in the city.
   C.   The parks, recreation and tourism board shall serve as an advisory
board to the city council on matters dealing with the city parks, recreation
and tourism opportunities for the city of Prague. (Ord. 419, 7-12-2010)
11-109: MEMBERS TO SERVE WITHOUT COMPENSATION:
The members of the parks, recreation and tourism board shall serve without
compensation, except that actual and necessary expenses shall be allowed and
paid by the city council from any sum set apart for park purposes. (Prior code
§ 1-23; amd. Ord. 419, 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY
SECTION:
11-201: Rules And Regulations
11-202: Use Of Lots
11-203: Perpetual Care
11-204: No Structures Contrary To These Rules
11-205: No Enclosure Or Fence
11-206: Owners To Plant No Shrubs
11-207: No Transfers Without Approval
11-208: Monuments
11-209: Consent To Interment
11-210: No Casket Or Container To Be Opened
11-211: Only One Interment To A Space
11-212: Disinterment In Municipal Cemetery
11-213: Space To Be Paid For Before Interment
11-214: Fees For Spaces And Grave Openings
11-215: All Charges To Be Paid In Advance (Rep. by Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
11-216: City Not Liable
11-217: May Remove Flowers And Other Objects
11-218: Not Liable For Objects Stolen
11-219: Boring, Digging And Glass Jars
11-220: Hours
11-221: Penalty
11-222: Outer Containers
11-201: RULES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
The municipal cemetery is a tract of land located one and one- half (11/2)
miles east of the corporate limits on U.S. Highway 62 devoted to cemetery
purposes and maintained on the park or lawn plan providing for perpetual
maintenance as a municipal service. These rules are adopted for the purpose of
the protection of each lot owner in the enjoyment of all privileges usually
enjoyed in all modern cemeteries, with the least interference with equal
privileges due all other lot owners. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 26-101 et seq.
11-202: USE OF LOTS:
No lot is used for any other purpose than the interment of bodies of persons.
(Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-203: PERPETUAL CARE:
All lots sold are subject to perpetual maintenance, and are also subject to all
reasonable rules and regulations now existing, or which may be hereafter
adopted to meet conditions hereafter arising. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-204: NO STRUCTURES CONTRARY TO THESE RULES:
Lot owners shall make no improvements or erect any monument, marker or
structure contrary to these rules, and should any monument, effigy, structure
or other object whatsoever, or any inscription be placed in or upon any lot,
monument or marker which the city deems to be offensive or injurious to the
appearance of the surrounding lots or grounds, the city shall have the right
and authority to enter upon such lot and remove such offensive object or
inscription. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-205: NO ENCLOSURE OR FENCE:
No enclosure of any kind, such as a fence, coping, curbing, hedge or ditch,
shall be permitted around any lot or place of interment. Corner markers will be
permitted when not over six inches (6") in diameter and sunk flush with the
ground. The top of any place of interment shall always remain on equal level
with the surface of the ground adjacent to it. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-206: OWNERS TO PLANT NO SHRUBS:
No trees, shrubbery or plants shall be set, planted, pruned or removed from any
lot, place or location without the consent of the city. The city, acting for
the best interest of the cemetery and all of its lot owners, shall have
authority to prune, remove, transplant, any tree, shrub, plant or flower when
it is deemed to be in the best interest of all owners in maintaining the
beautification of the municipal cemetery. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-207: NO TRANSFERS WITHOUT APPROVAL:
No owners of any lot in the municipal cemetery shall sell or transfer the same
or any interest therein except as permitted by the laws of the state and these
rules and regulations, and no such transfer shall be effective as to the
management of the cemetery, unless and until the same is approved by a person
duly authorized and such approval endorsed upon the conveyance in writing. This
is in order that the Municipal cemetery shall have a complete record of
ownership and of persons entitled to use the same. A fee of ten dollars
($10.00) shall be charged for each transfer. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-208: MONUMENTS:
A permit must be obtained from City Hall before setting any monument. All
foundations shall be prepared and installations made of all markers and
monuments at the Municipal cemetery at the expense of the lot owner in view of
perpetual maintenance. Such foundations to be the depth and character which the
City shall prescribe. All monuments must be set according to rules described in
permit. (Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
11-209: CONSENT TO INTERMENT:
No interment will be permitted in any lot without the consent of the owner or
guardian, showing the exact location of the interment to be made and not then
unless a proper burial certificate or permit is furnished. At least twenty four
(24) hours' previous notice is required before any interment is made, except in
extreme emergencies. Adjustments in time and charges may be made. (Ord. 215, 3-
20-1978)
11-210: NO CASKET OR CONTAINER TO BE OPENED:
No casket or container of a deceased human body shall be opened by any person
within the confines of the Municipal cemetery without an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction, except when the last services are being had and then
only with the consent of the person having charge and authority to do so. (Ord.
215, 3-20-1978)
11-211: ONLY ONE INTERMENT TO A SPACE:
Only one interment is permitted in any adult interment space, except:
   A.   In the case of a mother and infant;
   B.   Two (2) infants;
   C.   Two (2) cremations;
   D.   One cremation may be additionally interred with one adult.
Interment spaces shall not be split to increase the lot size. (Ord. 479, 1-14-
2019)
11-212: DISINTERMENT IN MUNICIPAL CEMETERY:
No disinterment is made except by the employees of the City under the
supervision of proper authority and with the consent of the owner, based upon
an official permit therefor. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-213: SPACE TO BE PAID FOR BEFORE INTERMENT:
All charges for the purchase price of actual spaces for interment and all
interment and removal fees, or for foundation charges or other work or services
for which charges are made shall be paid in advance and before the services are
performed, unless arrangements for payment has been made through City Hall.
Should the interment be made upon the faith of an insufficient or forged check,
draft or other bill of exchange, so that such service is obtained by fraud,
then the City shall have the right to remove such body to a single interment
space apart from the lot where such interment was made. (Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
11-214: FEES FOR SPACES AND GRAVE OPENINGS:
The following rates are hereby established with regard to charges per space,
charges for special area per space, grave openings, and weekend grave openings,
in the Municipal cemetery and are as follows:
A. Charge per space                                             $250.00
B. Special area per space                                       300.00
C. Grave opening (weekday)                                      200.00
D. Saturday morning opening                                     300.00
E. Saturday afternoon opening                                   400.00
F. Holiday                                                      400.00
G. Grave opening for cremations or infants (weekday)            125.00
H. Grave opening for cremations or infants (Saturday)           200.00
I. Monument permit fee for all monuments and markers except for 20.00
   veterans' markers
 
(Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
11-215: ALL CHARGES TO BE PAID IN ADVANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
11-216: CITY NOT LIABLE:
So long as the City and its officers and agents act in good faith and upon
reasonable grounds in making interments, removals or disinterments, it shall
not be liable in damage on account of forgeries or frauds of others or mistakes
honestly made, but the City shall use all reasonable means at its command and
shall be permitted to correct any such mistakes so that any person or persons
affected thereby may not suffer loss by reason thereof. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-217: MAY REMOVE FLOWERS AND OTHER OBJECTS:
Flowers, blankets, designs and frames shall be removable from any place of
interment at any time at the discretion of the City. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-218: NOT LIABLE FOR OBJECTS STOLEN:
The City is not liable for the safekeeping of any flowers, blankets, design or
other object authorized to be placed on any lot or grave and the foregoing will
be placed at the sole risk and responsibility of the lot owner. (Ord. 215, 3-
20-1978)
11-219: BORING, DIGGING AND GLASS JARS:
No boring or digging is to be permitted in any place of interment or upon any
lot except for the purpose of interment or disinterment or for some reason of
maintenance or beautification by the City and no glass or metal jars, dishes,
objects or containers shall be placed in or upon any lot. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-220: HOURS:
The Municipal cemetery is open to the public from sunrise until sunset. All
persons must enter through the gates of the cemetery during these hours. All
vehicles must travel on existing roads in the cemetery, with the exception of
maintenance vehicles used for mowing, opening and closing graves and leveling
of gravesites. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-221: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or any of the ordinances
or regulations adopted by reference herein is guilty of an offense and upon
conviction shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 215, 3-20-1978)
11-222: OUTER CONTAINERS:
All interments must be made in outer receptacle which may consist of vaults or
boxes made of steel, fiberglass, concrete or other nonperishable material
approved in advance by the City. It shall be the responsibility of the parties
involved, excluding the City, to place such outer receptacle in the open grave.
(Ord. 397, 5-8-2006)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY DEPARTMENT BOARD
SECTION:
11-301: Library Department; Board; Librarian
11-301: LIBRARY DEPARTMENT; BOARD; LIBRARIAN 1 :
   A.   There is a library department, which is under the supervision and
control of a library board of five (5) members. The mayor shall nominate and
the city council approve board members. For the initial round of appointments,
the mayor shall nominate and the city council approve the members for terms of
five (5), four (4), three (3), two (2), and one years, such that one member's
term expires each year and each term shall expire on June 30 of the term's last
year. Thereafter, The mayor shall annually nominate and the city council
approve one member per year for a term of five (5) years, the terms to expire
on June 30 of the term's last year.
   B.   The mayor and members of the city council may remove members of the
library board when it is necessary for the good of the service. Each year, the
board shall elect a chairman and a vice chairman from its own membership, and a
secretary, who need not be a member of the board. The board shall determine the
time and place of its regular meetings. The city manager, the chairman, or any
three (3) members of the board may call special meetings of the board. The
members shall serve without compensation. The board shall supervise and control
the public libraries of the city, and shall recommend to the city manager the
hire or removal of the librarian and the employees of the department. The city
manager shall have the sole power to either hire or remove the librarian, who
shall be an officer of the city, and all the employees of the department. The
board shall adopt regulations for the administration of the libraries. The
librarian, subject to the authority of the library board, shall have
supervision and control of the public libraries and of all employees thereof.
(Ord. 449, 10-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 31-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
LAKE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   Article A. General Provisions
11-401: Designation Of City Owned Lakes And Reservoirs
11-402: Opening And Closing Hours
11-403: Wading, Swimming In Lake; Penalty For Violation
11-404: Throwing Unsanitary Items In Lake Prohibited
11-405: Burning Of Trash, Brush On Land Around Lake
11-406: Collection And Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse Around Lake; Provision
For Violation Thereof
   Article B. Boating Regulations
11-410: License To Operate Boats
11-411: Fees
11-412: Issuance; Terms; Conditions
11-413: Numbering Of Boats; Renewal
11-414: Revocation
11-415: Restrictions On Operation And Use Of Boats Generally
   Article C. Fishing Regulations
11-420: Fishing License Required; Exceptions
11-421: Permanent Licenses For Persons Over Sixty Five Or Persons Wheelchair-
Confined
11-422: Fees
11-423: Issuance; Terms And Conditions; Restriction On Use Of Certain Fishing
Devices; Penalties
11-424: Revocation
11-425: Authority For Use Of Lake Granted Under Fishing Licenses
11-426: Restrictions Upon Kind And Amount Of Fish Taken
11-427: Restrictions On Use Of Certain Bait
   Article D. Hunting Regulations
11-430: Hunting License Required
11-431: Permanent Licenses For Residents Sixty Five Years Of Age Or Over;
Persons Under Sixteen Years Of Age Prohibited
11-432: Fees
11-433: Issuance; Terms; Conditions
11-434: Revocation
11-435: Types Of Hunting Permitted And Prohibited
11-436: Blinds For Waterfowl Hunting Permitted; Fees
11-437: Authority Granted Under Hunting Licenses Generally
11-438: Prohibitions And Restrictions On Hunting Generally
   Article E. Camping
11-440: Camping Permitted; Types Of Camping; Areas Designated
11-441: Campfires
11-442: Fees
   Article F. General Provisions Relating To Camping, Hunting, Fishing And
Boating
11-450: Woodcutting Prohibited
11-451: Waterskiing Prohibited
11-452: Private Boat Docks Prohibited
11-453: Fruit And Nut Gathering
11-454: Persons Under The Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Drugs; Providing
For A Test Therefor And Providing Penalty
   Article G. Penalties For Violation
11-460: Penalties
   Article H. Pavilion Regulations
11-470: Fees
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
11-401: DESIGNATION OF CITY OWNED LAKES AND RESERVOIRS:
The lake constructed by the City is hereby designated and named "Prague
Municipal Lake", hereinafter called "lake", and the police power of the City is
hereby extended to cover such lake. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-402: OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS:
The lake will be open for public use during the hours of five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily. The lake and adjoining property will
otherwise be closed at all other hours except to campers remaining overnight
pursuant to permit. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-403: WADING, SWIMMING IN LAKE; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
No person shall wade or swim in the lake except in areas so designated and
shall do so at their own risk. Violation of this clause will be a misdemeanor
subject to fine. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-404: THROWING UNSANITARY ITEMS IN LAKE PROHIBITED:
No person shall throw into or permit to enter the lake, or place, throw or
deposit upon the lands and premises surrounding such waters, any unused bait,
worms, flesh of animals or other matter subject to putrefaction, or any human
or animal excreta or any other unsanitary or unsightly thing. (Ord. 277, 4-8-
1985)
11-405: BURNING OF TRASH, BRUSH ON LAND AROUND LAKE:
   A.   No person shall burn any trash or refuse upon the property comprising
the lake and owned by the City unless it is burned in an incinerator or
container to be approved by the City.
   B.   No person shall burn grass, brush or other refuse upon the lake
property belonging to the City without first obtaining permission to do so from
the City. No person shall burn grass or other rubbish around any cabin site or
upon any property under lease by the City to such person without first
notifying the City of his intention to do so and obtaining permission for the
same from the City. Any person desiring to burn such grass or brush shall
notify the City of the same and it shall be the duty of the City Manager to
supervise such burning and no fire shall be started except under the
supervision of the City Manager. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-406: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE AROUND LAKE; PROVISION
FOR VIOLATION THEREOF:
   A.   No person shall throw or place garbage upon the ground or the property
comprising the lake, and all garbage or trash shall be placed in containers and
removed from the premises when the container becomes full.
   B.   The City or its agents and servants shall cause garbage cans to be
placed in all picnic grounds used by the public and all persons using such
picnic grounds shall place all garbage and refuse in such can, and the same
shall be removed and taken care of by the lake caretaker.
   C.   Any person in violation of this clause or who refuses or neglects to
comply therewith shall be subject to fine. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
ARTICLE B. BOATING REGULATIONS
11-410: LICENSE TO OPERATE BOATS:
No person shall operate any boat upon any of the water of the lake, or any
tributary or arm thereof, without first obtaining a license from the City
therefor, and then only in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 343, 10-18-1999)
11-411: FEES:
Any person may obtain a license for the use of a rowboat, sailboat or motorboat
upon the lake upon application to the City Clerk or such other person as may be
designated by the City Council to issue the same. There is a fee associated
with this activity that is subject to modification by the City Council through
resolution. The current fee schedule may be obtained from City Hall. (Ord. 460,
11-9-2015)
11-412: ISSUANCE; TERMS; CONDITIONS:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall bear the date of
issuance and the date of expiration. All annual licenses shall expire on
December 31 of each calendar year, and all daily licenses shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the date of issuance.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued on forms provided by the City Clerk and
approved by the City Council.
   C.   Each person holding a license for boating upon the lake shall have his
license therefor in his immediate possession when so boating and shall produce
the same for inspection upon demand of any officer, custodian, patrol officer
or representative of the City. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-413: NUMBERING OF BOATS; RENEWAL:
   A.   All boats for which a license has been issued to operate on the lake
shall be numbered in the order in which the license is granted with numbers
beginning at "one" and running numerically for the full number of boats for
which licenses have been issued.
   B.   Any person owning an annual boat license for any calendar year who
obtains a new annual license for the ensuing year on or before January 10 of
any calendar year may retain the same number on his boat as of the previous
year, but unless such new annual license is obtained on or before January 10,
such number shall be forfeited and a new number obtained. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-414: REVOCATION:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon
the strict observance by the holders and users thereof of the terms of this
chapter and any other ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by the City
Council for the protection of the lake from pollution or contamination, all
State sanitary laws and all State and Federal game and fish laws, while upon
such water or the premises occupied thereby.
   B.   A violation of such condition shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and the City Council upon conviction of any such holder or user of such
license of such violation, in addition to other penalties for violation of this
chapter, may revoke and cancel the license of such holder and such convicted
holder or user shall not be eligible for another license until the City Council
shall so order. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-415: RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION AND USE OF BOATS GENERALLY:
   A.   No boat shall be operated or permitted to be used upon the lake unless
such boat is equipped with and contains at least one Coast Guard-approved life
preserver for each person in such boat.
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall row, sail or
operate any boat upon such lake unless accompanied by a person over the age of
twenty one (21).
   C.   All boats when not in use shall be fastened securely to the shore by
rope or chain.
   D.   No person operating any boat upon such lake shall throw into or permit
to enter such water any unused bait, worms, flesh of animals or other matter
subject to putrefaction, or any human or animal excreta or other debris or any
other unsanitary or unsightly thing.
   E.   No boat propelled by motor on the lake shall be operated at a speed
greater than that which leaves no visible wake. Boats under way shall whenever
practical avoid persons or other boats which may be fishing and shall further
reduce their speed when in proximity of such persons or boats so as to prevent
disturbance thereof.
   F.   No person or persons shall be permitted to sleep, live, camp or cook in
any boat operated upon the water of the lake. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
ARTICLE C. FISHING REGULATIONS
11-420: FISHING LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall fish in any of the waters of the lake, or in or upon any
tributary or arm of such lake, without first obtaining a license from the City
therefor and then only in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
277, 4-8-1985)
11-421: PERMANENT LICENSES FOR PERSONS OVER SIXTY FIVE OR PERSONS WHEELCHAIR-
CONFINED:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, all bona fide residents of the
State who have attained the age of sixty five (65) years, or who have not
reached their sixteenth birthday, or are wheelchair- confined shall not be
required to purchase a license under this article from the City to fish in the
lake.
   B.   Any such person over sixty five (65) years of age shall make
application to the City Clerk for a permanent license to fish in such lake and
upon furnishing to the City Clerk written evidence of the fact that he is over
sixty five (65) years of age, he shall be granted a permanent license to fish
in such lake.
   C.   Any such person, who is wheelchair-confined, shall make application to
the City Clerk for a permanent application to fish in such lake. Written
evidence may be requested; upon approval he shall be granted a permanent
license to fish in such lake. (Ord. 343, 10-18-1999)
11-422: FEES:
   A.   All bona fide residents of the State may obtain a permit to fish in the
lake upon application to the Office of the City Clerk or such other person
which may from time to time be designated by the City Council to issue the
same. There is a fee associated with this activity that is subject to
modification by the City Council through resolution. The current fee schedule
may be obtained from City Hall.
   B.   The issuance of such fishing permits shall only be made to persons
possessing a valid State fishing license. (Ord. 460, 11-9-2015)
11-423: ISSUANCE; TERMS AND CONDITIONS; RESTRICTION ON USE OF CERTAIN FISHING
DEVICES; PENALTIES:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall bear the date of
issuance and the date of expiration. All annual licenses shall expire December
31 of each calendar year, and all daily licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on the date of issuance.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued on forms provided by the City Clerk and
approved by the City Council and shall be nontransferable.
   C.   Each person holding a license for fishing upon the lake shall have his
license therefor in his immediate possession when so fishing and shall produce
the same for inspection upon demand of any officer, custodian, patrolman or
representative of the City. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-424: REVOCATION:
All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon the
strict observance by the holders and users thereof of the terms of this chapter
and any other ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by the City Council
for the protection of the lake from pollution or contamination, all State
sanitary laws and all State and Federal game and fish laws, while upon such
waters or the premises occupied thereby; and a violation of any such condition
shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and the City Council
upon conviction of any such holder or user of such license of such violation,
in addition to other penalties for violation of this chapter, may revoke and
cancel the license of such holder and such convicted holder or user shall not
be eligible for another license until the City Council shall so order. (Ord.
277, 4-8-1985)
11-425: AUTHORITY FOR USE OF LAKE GRANTED UNDER FISHING LICENSES:
   A.   The issuance of a fishing license pursuant to this article shall
entitle the holder thereof to fish at such times and in such parts of the lake
as may be designated by the City Council from time to time, provided that such
person shall possess at such time a State fishing license.
   B.   The holder of a fishing license under this article may be accompanied
and joined in fishing by his children not over the age of sixteen (16) years
and such children shall not be required to have a fishing license, provided
that all fish caught or taken by such children when accompanied by their
parents shall be in conformity with the limit and length regulations herein
contained. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-426: RESTRICTIONS UPON KIND AND AMOUNT OF FISH TAKEN:
   A.   No person shall take from the waters of the lake any of the following:
      1.   Largemouth or smallmouth bass under fourteen inches (14") in length;
or
      2.   Channel cat and blue cat under ten inches (10") in length.
   B.   All of the fish listed in subsection A of this section are hereby
declared to be game fish within the purview of this section, and no person
fishing under one license shall catch or retain more than fifteen (15) such
fish in one day and under no circumstances shall such maximum number of game
fish include more than five (5) bass.
   C.   No person having a license to fish in the lake shall at any time or in
any manner take from the waters of such lake any fish by means of trotlines,
throwlines, limblines, juglines, nets or traps which are strictly prohibited.
   D.   Any person violating this subsection upon conviction thereof shall
forfeit his license to fish in such lake and be subject to fine for each fish
so caught, and each fish so caught is hereby declared to be a separate and
distinct offense for the purpose of conviction thereof. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-427: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CERTAIN BAIT:
No game fish as defined by the laws of the State or this chapter, and no carp
or buffalo, shall be used as bait to fish in the lake and no person shall turn
loose any minnows or other bait fish in such waters. No person shall keep,
place or maintain in such waters any live box or other receptacle for keeping
minnows or other fish alive, except while actually fishing. (Ord. 277, 4-8-
1985)
ARTICLE D. HUNTING REGULATIONS
11-430: HUNTING LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hunt or shoot upon any waters of the lake or in any tributary
or arm thereof, or on the lands owned and controlled by the City surrounding
such waters, without first obtaining a license from the City therefor and then
only in conformity with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-431: PERMANENT LICENSES FOR RESIDENTS SIXTY FIVE YEARS OF AGE OR OVER;
PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, all bona fide residents of the
State who have attained the age of sixty five (65) years shall not be required
to purchase a license under this article from the City to hunt in the lake.
   B.   Any such person shall make application to the City Clerk for a
permanent license to hunt in such lake and upon furnishing to the City Clerk
written evidence of the fact that he is over sixty five (65) years of age, he
shall be granted a permanent license to hunt in such lake.
   C.   Persons under sixteen (16) years of age are prohibited from hunting on
the lake or its surrounding lands unless accompanied by a licensed adult. (Ord.
277, 4-8-1985)
11-432: FEES:
   A.   Any bona fide resident of the State may obtain a license to hunt upon
the waters and lands of the lake upon application to the Office of the City
Clerk or such other person which may from time to time be designated by the
City Council to issue the same. There is a fee associated with this activity
that is subject to modification by the City Council through resolution. The
current fee schedule may be obtained from City Hall.
   B.   The issuance of such hunting license shall only be made to persons
possessing a valid State hunting license with all required stamps affixed
thereto. (Ord. 460, 11-9-2015)
11-433: ISSUANCE; TERMS; CONDITIONS:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall bear the date of
issuance and the date of expiration. All annual licenses shall expire December
31 of each calendar year, and all daily licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on the date of issuance.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued on forms provided by the City Clerk and
approved by the City Council and shall be nontransferable.
   C.   Each person holding a license for hunting upon the lake shall have his
license therefor in his immediate possession when so hunting and shall produce
the same for inspection upon demand of any officer, custodian, patrolman or
representative of the City. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-434: REVOCATION:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon
the strict observance by the holders and users thereof of the terms of this
chapter and any other ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by the City
Council for the protection of the lake from pollution or contamination, all
State sanitary laws and all State and Federal game and fish laws, pertaining to
hours of hunting and daily bag limits, while upon such waters or the premises
occupied thereby.
   B.   A violation of any such condition shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this chapter and the City Council upon conviction of any such holder
or user of such license of such violation, in addition to other penalties for
violation of this chapter, may revoke and cancel the license of such holder,
and such convicted holder or user shall not be eligible for another license
until the City Council shall so order. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-435: TYPES OF HUNTING PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED:
Hunting on the lake is restricted to the hunting and taking of migratory fowl
only as defined by the laws of the United States and the State. All other types
of hunting for upland game or birds is prohibited. Bow hunting of any type for
game or fish is prohibited. Rifled guns or caliber guns are prohibited and all
shotguns used shall be plugged as shall be required by State or Federal law.
(Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-436: BLINDS FOR WATERFOWL HUNTING PERMITTED; FEES:
   A.   Persons holding valid licenses to hunt upon the waters and surrounding
lands of the lake may construct blinds for their use in such areas as are from
time to time approved by the City Council, provided, however, no person shall
construct such a waterfowl blind within three hundred (300) yards of any public
camping or picnic ground nor within three hundred (300) yards of another blind.
   B.   Any person so constructing such a blind shall first be required to put
up a deposit with the City Clerk in a sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) and
designate the area where the blind is to be built. At the end of each season or
seasons and upon compliance with the provisions of this section the deposit
shall be returned to the depositor thereof and no fee shall be charged for the
building and maintaining of the blind or blinds during the hunting season or
seasons.
   C.   Location of all blinds shall be in designated areas only. The areas
shall be designated by a stake placed by the City. Stakes shall be assigned by
City officials on a first-come, first-serve basis after the fifty dollar
($50.00) deposit is made with the City. The building of such blinds shall be
the sole responsibility of the person building the same. At the close of
waterfowl hunting season any such person so building a blind shall be
responsible for tearing down and removing the same from the grounds of the lake
and failure to do so will result in the forfeiture of deposit herein required.
   D.   Blinds are limited in number to one per person or family. At no time
shall there be more than four (4) persons in a blind.
   E.   Pits for the hunting of geese or other migratory birds is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985; amd. Ord. 284, 11-10-1986)
11-437: AUTHORITY GRANTED UNDER HUNTING LICENSES GENERALLY:
The issuance of a hunting license pursuant to this article shall entitle the
holder thereof to hunt at such times and in such parts of the lake, and land
owned or controlled by the City surrounding such lakes, as may be designated
from time to time by the City Council. Such person shall possess at such time a
State hunting license with all required stamps affixed thereto. (Ord. 277, 4-8-
1985)
11-438: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON HUNTING GENERALLY:
   A.   The holder of a hunting license under this article shall have the
privilege of hunting for and shooting upon the lake and the land surrounding
the same, any duck, geese and other waterfowl in such places and at such times
as the City Council shall from time to time direct. Such areas of such waters,
or the lands surrounding the same, as may at times be restricted against
hunting or shooting thereon shall be designated by signs thereon or adjacent
thereto.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no holder of a hunting
license or any other person shall at any time hunt or shoot any game of any
kind upon such waters, or the land surrounding the same, except ducks, geese
and other waterfowl, and no holder of a hunting license or any other person
shall use, shoot or discharge upon such waters, or the lands surrounding the
same, any firearm other than a shotgun, and shot used with or fired from such
shotgun shall not be a size larger than number 2, and shall be steel shot only,
all lead shot being specifically prohibited. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
ARTICLE E. CAMPING
11-440: CAMPING PERMITTED; TYPES OF CAMPING; AREAS DESIGNATED:
   A.   Camping shall be permitted upon the grounds of the lake for a period of
not to exceed seven (7) days at any given period, in areas designated and set
aside for that purpose by the City Council and so marked, and upon the payment
of fees hereinafter fixed.
   B.   Camping in any form will be permitted, but where the same is by use of
a camping trailer, pickup camper or other type of vehicular or mobile homes,
the same shall be restricted to designated parking areas and at no time shall
they be permitted to be parked or used outside the areas.
   C.   Wilderness or remote camping will be permitted by tent or open camping
on land surrounding the lake and outside of designated camping areas except
during hunting season when the same shall be prohibited. (Ord. 343, 10-18-1999)
11-441: CAMPFIRES:
   A.   Campfires will be permitted in all designated camping areas, but where
available shall be limited to receptacles constructed for that purpose. In the
event no such receptacle is available a campfire of small size for the purpose
of cooking may be built after an appropriate place has been cleared and
prepared so as to prevent the surrounding grass, trees and shrubs from catching
fire therefrom.
   B.   Campfires in wilderness areas are to be built with extreme caution and
only when the same does not constitute a fire danger to the surrounding areas,
considering the weather, wind and other factors which might cause any such fire
to spread. Any such campfire shall only be built when the person or persons
building the same have used all reasonable means at hand to prepare an adequate
and safe fire site so as to prevent its escape to the surrounding areas.
   C.   No campfire of any type shall be built or used by persons under
eighteen (18) years of age unless accompanied by a responsible adult who shall
supervise the same. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-442: FEES:
   A.   Any person or group of persons may camp on the lands of the lake upon
making application for a permit therefor to the City Clerk or such other person
or persons as may be designated by the City Council to issue the same. There is
a fee associated with this activity that is subject to modification by the City
Council through resolution. The current fee schedule may be obtained from City
Hall.
   B.   Any such permit issued pursuant to this section shall be for a twenty
four (24) hour period unless otherwise specified, in which event the fees for
such permit shall be the daily rate times the number of days specified.
   C.   Permits for camping shall be issued on the basis of camping unit
regardless of the number of people involved, such as for each tent, camp
trailer or vehicle. (Ord. 460, 11-9-2015)
ARTICLE F. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO CAMPING, HUNTING, FISHING AND BOATING
11-450: WOODCUTTING PROHIBITED:
All woodcutting upon the premises of the lake by a person or persons using the
same pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is hereby prohibited except
persons desiring to build campfires which may use such downed and dead timber
as may be available. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-451: WATERSKIING PROHIBITED:
Waterskiing upon the waters of the lake shall be prohibited at all times. (Ord.
277, 4-8-1985)
11-452: PRIVATE BOAT DOCKS PROHIBITED:
No person, persons, individual, partnership, firm, association or corporation,
other than the City and its licensees, may build, construct or erect any boat
or fishing dock upon the lake. However, the City Council may, at such time as
it elects, license the building and maintaining of one or more public boat or
fishing docks on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, the same to
be done by contract authorized by the City Council. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-453: FRUIT AND NUT GATHERING:
The public shall be permitted to gather and harvest indigenous fruits and nuts
growing on the lands of the lake, provided that the same may be done without
the destruction of trees and plants producing the same. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
11-454: PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR DRUGS; PROVIDING
FOR A TEST THEREFOR AND PROVIDING PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate any boat on the lake, camp,
hunt, fish or otherwise use the facilities while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs as defined by the State Statutes as controlled
dangerous substances.
   B.   Any person using or permitted to use the lake hereby consents to taking
a breathalyzer test or blood or urine test given and applied in accordance with
the State's implied consent law which may be used in court against them and
should they refuse to do so, such refusal shall be competent evidence in court
and shall be the basis of revocation of any and all permits held by any such
person, and they shall no longer be permitted to use the lake or its property
pending further order of the City Council.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. Fine and jail time or both shall be in addition to the
forfeiture of any permit or use of the lake. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
ARTICLE G. PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
11-460: PENALTIES:
Each and every violation of any of the provisions contained in this chapter is
an offense against the City and upon conviction of such an offense the violator
will be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 277, 4-8-1985)
ARTICLE H. PAVILION REGULATIONS
11-470: FEES:
   A.   Any person or group of persons may use the pavilions upon making
application for a permit therefor to the City Clerk or such other person or
persons as may be designated by the City Council to issue the same. There is a
fee associated with this activity that is subject to modification by the City
Council through resolution. The current fee schedule may be obtained from City
Hall. (Ord. 460, 11-9-2015)
PART 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
Boards And Commissions   1
Planning Commission   1A
Board Of Adjustment (Reserved)   1B
Zoning Regulations   2
Flood Damage Prevention   3
Regulation Of Mobile, Manufactured, And Modular Homes And Trailers   4
Penalty   5
CHAPTER 1
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
   Article A. Planning Commission
12-101: Planning Commission Created
12-102: Term Of Office
12-103: Mayor To Be Ex Officio Member
12-104: Appointment
12-105: Officers To Be Elected; Regulations
12-106: No Compensation; Duties; Employees
12-107: Planning Commission; Powers And Duties
12-108: Planning Commission To Act As Zoning Commission
12-109: Uniformity Of Regulations
12-110: Comprehensive Plan; Purpose Of Regulations And Matters Considered
12-111: Additional Authority
   Article B. Board Of Adjustment
   (Reserved)
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
12-101: PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED 1 :
There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the City. This Commission
shall consist of five (5) citizens of the City. The members of the Commission
shall be nominated and appointed solely with reference to their fitness and
without reference to their party affiliation. They shall serve without pay.
(Prior Code, Sec. 16-1)
12-102: TERM OF OFFICE:
Members of the City Planning Commission shall hold office for a term of three
(3) years, with the exception in the first instance, two (2) shall be appointed
to serve a term of one year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years, and one for a
term of three (3) years, except when a vacancy occurs an appointment shall be
made to fill the unexpired term. (Prior Code, Sec. 6-2)
12-103: MAYOR TO BE EX OFFICIO MEMBER:
The Mayor of the City shall be ex officio member of the City Planning
Commission, but shall receive no compensation for such service. (Prior Code,
Sec. 16-3)
12-104: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor of the City shall appoint members of the City Planning Commission,
subject to approval and confirmation by the City Council. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-
5)
12-105: OFFICERS TO BE ELECTED; REGULATIONS:
The members of the Planning Commission shall meet within two (2) weeks after
their appointment and confirmation and organize by election from their members
a chairman, vice chairman, and secretary, who shall serve for a period of one
year. They shall adopt from time to time such bylaws, rules, and regulations
and amendments thereto as may be necessary to effectuate the purpose of this
Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-6)
12-106: NO COMPENSATION; DUTIES; EMPLOYEES:
Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without pay. It is the duty of
such Commission to prepare, from time to time, plans for the systematic
development and betterment of the City as a place of residence or for business.
It shall have the power and authority to employ planners, engineers, attorneys,
clerks, and other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the City
Council. The salary and compensation of such employees shall be fixed by the
City Council, and shall be paid out of the City Treasury as officers and
employees. The necessary expenses incurred by the Commission shall be paid out
of the City Treasury as other legal expenses of the City government. (Prior
Code, Sec. 16-7)
12-107: PLANNING COMMISSION; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The City Planning Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter
tending to the development and betterment of the City and make recommendations
as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the City Council,
and for any purpose make or cause to be made, surveys, maps or plans. Before
the final action shall be taken by the City Council in the location and design
of any public building, statue, memorial, park, boulevard, street and alley,
playgrounds, public grounds, bridge or change in the location of any street or
alley or the grade thereof, such questions shall be submitted to the City
Planning Commission for investigation and report. The Planning Commission may
prepare and recommend to the City Council the adoption of rules and regulations
governing the subdivisions of land within the corporate limits of the City. All
plans, plats or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public
or private use within the corporate limits of the City shall first be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its recommendation, approval, or rejection. The
disapproval of any such plan, plat or replat by the City Council shall be
deemed a refusal of the purported dedication shown thereon. (Prior Code, Sec.
16-8)
12-108: PLANNING COMMISSION TO ACT AS ZONING COMMISSION:
The City Planning Commission also shall act as the Zoning Commission and shall
have the power to prepare and recommend to the City Council zoning district
boundaries and appropriate regulations relating to the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that
may be occupied, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density
of population, the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, industry, residences and other purposes. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-10)
12-109: UNIFORMITY OF REGULATIONS:
The Planning Commission may recommend the division of the City into districts
of such number, size and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
zoning purpose. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of
buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one district may
differ from those in other districts. Nothing in this Section shall be
construed to apply to telephone exchange buildings. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-10)
12-110: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS AND MATTERS CONSIDERED:
Such regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the districts and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City. (Prior Code,
Sec. 16-11)
12-111: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
The City Planning Commission shall have additional authority and responsibility
as the City Council shall from time to time prescribe. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-12)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 45-101 - 45-105.
ARTICLE B. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 1
   (Reserved)
 
Notes
1 1. See the City's Zoning Ordinance, Section
  12-201 of this Part.
CHAPTER 2
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-201: Zoning Ordinance Adopted
12-201: ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference the "City of
Prague Zoning Ordinance", including by reference the Official Zoning Map and
the Prague Municipal Airport Height Zoning Map, adopted by Ordinance 353, and
any amendments or revisions thereto. The Zoning Ordinance shall be fully
applicable and enforceable in the City, and punishable as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 353, 2-14-2000)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-301: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
12-302: Definitions
12-303: General Provisions
12-304: Administration
12-305: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-306: Floodplain Management Fee Schedule
12-307: Penalties For Noncompliance
12-301: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has
in 82 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1601 - 1618, as amended, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City of Prague Floodplain Board adopts
the following floodplain management regulations, to become effective
immediately upon adoption and approval. (Ord. 482, 5-13-2019)
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Prague are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
12-302: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not
limited to, garages and storage sheds.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the City of
Prague subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
BFE: Base flood elevation.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base
flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CFR: Code of Federal Regulations.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the City of Prague Floodplain
Administrator which authorizes development in a special flood hazard area in
accordance with this chapter.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building built, in the case of a building in
Zones AE, A, and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored
so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before August 4, 1972.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FIRM: Flood insurance rate map.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An official map of the City of Prague on which FEMA
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium
zones applicable to the City of Prague.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by FEMA for City of Prague
which contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as
well as the floodway width, section area and mean velocity.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
A. The overflow of inland or tidal waters, or
B. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROOFING: Means any combination of structural and non- structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within the City of Prague subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the
City Council of the City of Prague to administer and implement laws, ordinances
and regulations relating to the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning Codes and ordinances, subdivision
regulations, Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations
and ordinances (such as floodplain, grading and erosion control regulations and
ordinances) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of flood or flooding).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. A floodway is located within areas of special flood hazard established
in subsection 12-303B of this chapter. A floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential
projectiles.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
the national register;
B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of
interior; or
D. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior,
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of title 44 CFR.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North
American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on the city of Prague's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the city of Prague city council and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Prague
floodplain board.
OWRB: The Oklahoma water resources board.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
A. Built on a single chassis;
B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and
D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Public Law 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary conditions, or
B. Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration would
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the city of Prague city council to a person from
the terms of this chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. (For full requirements see section
60.6 of title 44 CFR.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 417, 6-14-2010; amd. Ord. 482, 5-13-2019)
12-303: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City of Prague,
Oklahoma. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and engineering report
entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Lincoln County, Oklahoma and
Incorporated Areas" dated May 16, 2019, with the accompanying flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) are hereby adopted on May 16, 2019, by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. However, until this date the current effective
flood maps for the City of Prague dated August 10, 2010, shall be used for this
purpose until May 16, 2019. (Ord. 482, 5-13-2019)
   C.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and any other ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City of Prague or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
12-304: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The City Council of the
City of Prague designates the building inspector as Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of national flood insurance program regulations in title 44 CFR
pertaining to floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1601 through 1618, as amended.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by this chapter.
      4.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the FEMA.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the
base flood elevation on a FEMA elevation certificate as well as other data as
required in order to administer the provisions of section
12-305 of this chapter.
      9.   When a floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zone AE as
delineated on the Lincoln County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
city of Prague.
      10.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures
in the city of Prague, determine if the residential and nonresidential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement.
      11.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a
decision of the city council.
      12.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   An application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         b.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      2.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
      3.   The floodplain administrator or city council, as applicable, may
approve certain development in zones A or AE delineated on the Lincoln County
FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than
one foot (1'), provided that the applicant for the development permit in that
case first complies with 44 CFR section 65.12.
   D.   Variances:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   The city council of the city of Prague may grant variances for
uses which do not satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or this chapter, if the applicant for the variance presents
adequate proof that: 1) compliance with this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient benefit or
advantage to the people and 2) satisfies the pertinent provisions of this
subsection D. However, no variance shall be granted where the effect of the
variance will be to permit the continuance of a condition which unreasonably
creates flooding hazards.
         b.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma floodplain
management act or by other laws of the state.
         c.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
         d.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the city
council, accompanied by a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
         e.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection C2 of this
section and provisions of this subsection D have been fully considered. As the
lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
         f.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the chairman of the city
council which states that: 1) the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
with the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built
lower than the base flood elevation, and 2) such construction below the base
flood level increases risks to life and property.
         g.   At such time as the city council deems the petition ready for
notification to the public, the city council shall schedule a hearing and
direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in Lincoln County at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.
         h.   The city council shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this subsection
D. The city council shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the equities
involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to the
public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
         i.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances;
and
            (4)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         j.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this subsection D and
the intent of this chapter, the city council may attach such conditions to the
granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives stated in subsection 12-301C of this chapter.
         k.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the floodplain board shall be sent by the floodplain
administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance.
      2.   Special Provisions:
         a.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         c.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         d.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
            (1)   The criteria of subsections D1e, D1i, D2b, and D2c of this
section are met, and
            (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
12-305: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated equal to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection is
satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated equal to or above the
base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land
surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the
standard of this subsection is satisfied.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
the Lincoln County FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least
thirty six inches (36") above grade or at least at or above the base flood
elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer
according to Oklahoma state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in
writing to the floodplain administrator by said installer prior to habitation
of the manufactured home.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zone AE on the Lincoln County FIRM on sites: 1) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam
for the manufactured home is elevated at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. A licensed
installer shall install the home in accordance with state law and compliance
herewith shall be certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said
installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
         c.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
zone AE on the Lincoln County FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this subsection B4 be elevated so that the bottom of the I-beam of the
manufactured home is at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. A licensed installer shall install
the home in accordance with state law and compliance herewith shall be
certified in writing to the floodplain administrator by said installer prior to
habitation of the manufactured home.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A and AE on the Lincoln County FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection 12-304C of this
chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes"
in subsection B4 of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
      6.   Accessory Structure: Accessory structures to be placed on sites
within zones A and AE on the Lincoln County FIRM shall comply with the
following:
         a.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
         b.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
         c.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include, but are not limited to, working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
         d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must
be elevated to or above the BFE;
         e.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         f.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
         g.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
         h.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure;
         i.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
         j.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
   C.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   The applicant for a development permit for any subdivision located
in Zones A and AE which is fifty (50) or more lots or greater than five (5)
acres shall generate the base flood elevation data for that subdivision. (Ord.
482, 5-13-2019)
      2.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      3.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   D.   Floodways: The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
      1.   Encroachments, including, but not limited to, fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development are prohibited
within the adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels within the City of Prague during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
      2.   If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
      3.   The City of Prague may permit encroachments within the adopted
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that the applicant for the development permit complies with all of 44 CFR
section 65.12.
   E.   Severability: If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this
chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
12-306: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
The City of Prague City Council establishes the following fee schedule not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one service:
   A.   Notice of intent fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) maximum.
   B.   Floodplain development permit application review: One hundred dollars
($100.00).
   C.   Floodplain development permit fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Inspection fee - per inspection: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord.
417, 6-14-2010)
12-307: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this chapter is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council of the
city of Prague or its city attorney from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 417, 6-14-2010)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATION OF MOBILE, MANUFACTURED, AND MODULAR HOMES AND TRAILERS
SECTION:
12-401: Citation
12-402: Definitions
12-403: License Required For Construction, Operation
12-404: Application For License
12-405: Form Of Application
12-406: Complete Plan Required
12-407: Notice For Violations To Licensee; Suspension
12-408: Petition For Hearing
12-409: License Fees And Temporary Permits
12-410: Officer To Make Inspections
12-411: May Inspect Outside Premises
12-412: Occupant To Give Access
12-413: Notice Of Health And Safety Violations
12-414: Request For Hearing
12-415: Inspection Officer To Compile Findings
12-416: Appeals
12-417: Emergency Action Without Notice
12-418: Manufactured, Mobile, And Modular Homes And Travel Trailers Not
Permitted In Certain Districts
12-419: Not To Be Used For Certain Purposes
12-420: Freestanding Mobile Homes In Rural Areas
12-421: Nonresidential Mobile Trailers Need License
12-422: License Fee
12-423: Operation Of Trailers By Contractors On Construction Projects, Watchmen
12-424: Permanent Location Not Authorized
12-425: Application Of Provisions To New And Existing Mobile Homes And Travel
Trailer Parks
12-426: Types Of Parks
12-427: Location Of Parks; Drainage
12-428: Minimum Area
12-429: Intensity Of Development
12-430: Spaces To Be Clearly Defined
12-431: Location Of Mobile Or Travel Trailer
12-432: Driveways
12-433: Existence Prior To This Chapter, Safety Hazard; Compliance
12-434: Composition Of Driveways And Walkways
12-435: Clothes Drying Spaces And Facilities
12-436: Landscaping Of Parks
12-437: Application Of Service Buildings; Requirements
12-438: Service Building For Travel Trailer Parks
12-439: Facilities Required
12-440: Location Of Service Building
12-441: Specification Of Service Buildings
12-442: Sanitary Condition To Be Maintained
12-443: Laundry Facilities
12-444: Sewage Disposal For Mobile Home Parks
12-445: Sewer Connections
12-446: Connection To Public System To Be Made When Possible
12-447: Required Reception Of Sewage By Occupants
12-448: Private Sewage System Design
12-449: Sewerage Connections To Be Watertight
12-450: Application Of Water Supply; Requirements
12-451: Water Supply Amounts
12-452: Water Connections And Piping
12-453: Construction Of Individual Water Connections
12-454: Location Of Water Supply From Space
12-455: Pumps And Well Casing, Drains
12-456: Water Storage
12-457: Drinking Fountains
12-458: Storage, Collection And Disposal Of Refuse
12-459: Refuse Containers
12-460: Racks And Holders For Refuse Containers; Construction
12-461: Refuse Collection And Disposal
12-462: Insect And Rodent Control Measures
12-463: Larvicidal Solutions
12-464: Insect Or Noxious Weed Control
12-465: Debris
12-466: Rats Or Other Rodents
12-467: Electricity; Exterior Lighting
12-468: Streets And Driveways To Be Lighted
12-469: Fuel Piping To Mobile Homes
12-470: Litter, Rubbish And Flammable Materials
12-471: Fires
12-472: Fire Protection
12-473: Plumbing And Electrical Alterations Or Repairs
12-474: Skirting Of Mobile Homes
12-475: Permit Required For Construction Of Any Structural Additions Or
Alterations
12-476: Registration Of Owners And Occupants
12-477: Additional Regulations
12-478: Mobile Home Subdivisions
12-479: Minimum Effective Lots In Subdivisions
12-480: Side Line Of Lots
12-481: Greenbelt Planting Strip
12-482: Supervision
12-483: Posting Of License And Temporary Permit
12-484: Penalty
12-485: Relief In The Courts
12-401: CITATION:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MOBILE HOME, TRAILER PARK,
AND MANUFACTURED HOME RULES AND REGULATIONS. (1983 Code; amd. Ord. 496, 3-13-
2023)
12-402: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this Section:
                       A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and a
                       bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: Chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be considered to
                       be the same as a dependent travel trailer, unless
                       otherwise specified.
                                    A mobile home which does not have a flush
                                    toilet and a bath or shower. For purposes
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME:              of regulation under this Chapter, a
                                    dependent mobile home shall be considered
                                    to be the same as a dependent travel
                                    trailer, unless otherwise specified.
DEPENDENT TRAVEL TRAILER:           A travel trailer which does not have a
                                    flush toilet and a bath or shower.
                                    Any mobile home or travel trailer not
FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL  located in a mobile home park or travel
TRAILER:                            trailer park, respectively, licensed by the
                                    City or in an approved mobile home
                                    subdivision.
HEALTH OFFICER:                     The legally designated health authority of
                                    the City or his authorized representative.
                                    A mobile home which has a flush toilet and
                                    a bath or shower. Unless otherwise
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME:            indicated in the text of this Chapter, the
                                    term "mobile home" shall mean an
                                    independent mobile home or an independent
                                    travel trailer.
INDEPENDENT TRAVEL TRAILER:         A travel trailer which has a flush toilet
                                    and a bath or shower.
INSPECTION OFFICER:                 The Building Inspector of the City or his
                                    authorized agent.
                                    Any person licensed to operate and maintain
LICENSEE:                           a mobile home park under the provisions of
                                    this Chapter.
                                    A structure transportable in one or more
                                    sections which, in the traveling mode, is
                                    eight (8) body feet (2,438 body mm) or more
                                    in width or forty (40) body feet (12,192
                                    body mm) or more in length or, when erected
                                    on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or
MANUFACTURED HOME:                  more square feet, and which is built on a
                                    permanent chassis and designed to be used
                                    as a dwelling with or without a permanent
                                    foundation when connected to required
                                    utilities, and includes the plumbing,
                                    heating, air conditioning, and electrical
                                    systems contained in the structure.
                                    A single-family dwelling designed for
                                    transportation on streets and highways on
                                    its own wheels or on flatbed or other
                                    trailers, both highway and rail, and
                                    arriving at the site where it is to be
                                    occupied as a dwelling complete and ready
                                    for occupancy, except for minor and
MOBILE HOME:                        incidental unpacking and assembly
                                    operations, location on jacks or permanent
                                    foundations, connection to utilities, and
                                    similar operations. Unless otherwise
                                    indicated in the text of this Chapter, the
                                    term "mobile home" shall refer to an
                                    "independent mobile home" or an
                                    "independent travel trailer" as defined in
                                    this Section.
                                    Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or
                                    more mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or
MOBILE HOME PARK:                   sleeping purposes, are located, regardless
                                    of whether or not a charge is made for such
                                    accommodations.
                                    A plot of ground within a mobile home park
MOBILE HOME SPACE:                  designed for the accommodation of one
                                    mobile home and not located in a mobile
                                    home sales lot.
                                    A subdivision designed and intended for
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:            residential use where residence is in
                                    mobile, modular, and manufactured homes
                                    exclusively.
                                    Any factory fabricated, transportable
                                    building unit, not built upon a permanent
                                    chassis, designed to be used by itself or
MODULAR HOME:                       to be incorporated with similar units on a
                                    permanent foundation. The term is intended
                                    to apply to major assemblies and does not
                                    include prefabricated sub-elements
                                    incorporated into a structure at the site.
                                    Any vehicle having the basic
                                    characteristics of either a mobile home or
                                    travel trailer, but which is used for
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER:      purposes other than residential and is not
                                    being offered for sale (as indicated by a
                                    clearly displayed sign on or near the
                                    trailer).
PARK:                               A mobile home park and/or travel trailer
                                    park.
                                    Any person to whom a temporary permit is
PERMITTEE:                          issued to maintain or operate a mobile home
                                    park under the provisions of this Chapter.
PERSON:                             A natural individual, firm, trust,
                                    partnership, association or corporation.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM OR PUBLIC SEWER Any such system built and owned by, or
SYSTEM:                             dedicated to and accepted by the City. All
                                    other such systems are private
                                    A building housing toilet and bathing
                                    facilities for men and/or women, and may
SERVICE BUILDING:                   also include buildings containing laundry
                                    facilities as required by this Chapter or
                                    desired by the park operator.
SUBDIVISION:                        Mobile home subdivision unless otherwise
                                    indicated.
                                    All vehicles and portable structures built
                                    on a chassis, designed as a temporary or
                                    permanent dwelling for travel,
TRAVEL TRAILER:                     recreational, and vacation use, including
                                    tent trailers and motor-driven vehicles,
                                    and independent travel trailers and
                                    dependent travel trailers as defined in
                                    this Section.
                                    Any plot of ground on which two (2) or more
                                    travel trailers occupied for dwelling or
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK:                sleeping purposes, are located, regardless
                                    of whether or not a charge is made for such
                                    accommodation.
                                    A plot of ground within a travel trailer
TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE:               park designed for accommodation of one
                                    travel trailer.
                                    Any area shown on the City area General
URBAN:                              Plan for urban intensity development.
                                    (Prior Code, Sec. 4-29; amd. Ord. 496, 3-
                                    13-2023; Ord. 497, 7-10-2023)
 
12-403: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate any mobile home
park or travel trailer park within the limits of the City unless he holds a
valid license issued annually by the City Clerk with the approval of the
Inspection Officer and Health Officer of the City in the name of such person
for the specific mobile home park, except that the maintenance or operation of
a mobile home park or travel trailer park in existence on the effective date of
this Chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time
and under such conditions as are hereinafter described. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-30)
12-404: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application shall be made to the City Clerk who shall issue a license upon
compliance by the applicant with all pertinent provisions of this and other
regulations of the City. Every person holding a license shall notify the City
Clerk in writing within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred,
given away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home
park. The notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to
the ownership or control of such mobile home park or travel trailer park.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-30)
12-405: FORM OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for original licenses shall be in writing signed by the
applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application, and shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park;
      3.   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with regulations
promulgated thereunder; and
      4.   Such further information as may be requested by the Inspection
Officer or Health Officer.
   B.   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      1.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      2.   Other information requested by the Inspection Officer or Health
Officer. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-30)
12-406: COMPLETE PLAN REQUIRED:
   A.   A complete plan, as required by Section
12-405 of this Chapter for the purpose of obtaining a license, shall show:
      1.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      2.   The number, locations and size of all mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces;
      3.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational area;
      4.   The locations of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      5.   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities; and
      6.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-31)
12-407: NOTICE FOR VIOLATIONS TO LICENSEE; SUSPENSION:
Whenever the Health Officer or Inspection Officer finds conditions existing in
violation of this Chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he
shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued that,
unless such conditions or practices be corrected within a reasonable period of
time specified in the notice, the license will be suspended. At the end of such
period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the Inspection Officer or Health
Officer shall reinspect such park, and if such conditions or practices have not
been corrected, he shall suspend the license and give notice in writing of such
suspension to the person to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice
of suspension, such person shall cease operation of such park except as
provided in Sections
12-413 and
12-414 of this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-32)
12-408: PETITION FOR HEARING:
Any person whose permit has been denied, suspended, or who has received notice
from the Inspection Officer or Health Officer that his permit will be suspended
unless certain conditions or practices at the park are corrected, may request
and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the City Council, provided
that when no petition for such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10)
days following the day on which notice of suspension was served, such license
shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of such
ten (10) day period. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-32)
12-409: LICENSE FEES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS:
The City Clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home park or travel
trailer park an initial license or temporary permit of thirty dollars ($30.00)
per park. The initial license or temporary permit shall expire one year from
the date of issue unless renewed upon such conditions as the City Council may
by ordinance or resolution direct. A charge of forty five dollars ($45.00)
shall be made for renewal of licenses. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-33)
12-410: OFFICER TO MAKE INSPECTIONS:
The Inspection Officer or Health Officer is hereby authorized and directed to
make inspections to determine the conditions of mobile home parks and travel
trailer parks located within the City in order to perform his duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks and of the
general public. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-34)
12-411: MAY INSPECT OUTSIDE PREMISES:
   A.   The Inspection Officer or Health Officer shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
Chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
   B.   The Inspection Officer or Health Officer shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants
using the park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-34)
12-412: OCCUPANT TO GIVE ACCESS:
It is the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof or his
agent or employees access to any part of such mobile home park or travel
trailer park or their premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this
Chapter, or with any lawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
34)
12-413: NOTICE OF HEALTH AND SAFETY VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Whenever the Inspection Officer or Health Officer determines that
violations of pertinent regulations exist, the Inspection Officer shall notify
the licensee or permittee of such alleged violation. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action which if taken will effect
compliance with provisions of this Chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any act it requires; and
      5.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon
owner or his agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his
last known address.
   B.   Whenever the Health Officer in company of the Inspection Officer finds
conditions existing in violation of this Chapter or of any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, the Inspection Officer shall give notice in writing to the
person to whom the license was issued, that unless such conditions or practices
are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the
license will be suspended.
   C.   At the end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the
Inspection Officer or Health Officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the Inspection Officer shall
suspend the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person
to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such park except as provided in Section
12-414 of this Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-35)
12-414: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
Any person affected by any notice issued under this Chapter or resulting
regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Council of the City provided that the person shall file with the Inspection
Officer a written request for such hearing and setting forth briefly the
grounds for such request within ten (10) days after the day the notice was
served. When no request for such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10)
days following the day on which notice of suspension was served, such license
shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of such
ten (10) day period. The filing of such request shall stay the notice of
suspension of permits and licenses except in cases of orders issued under
Section
12-417 of this Chapter. The hearing shall be held by the Council of the City at
the earliest possible time. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-35)
12-415: INSPECTION OFFICER TO COMPILE FINDINGS:
After the hearing the Inspection Officer shall compile the findings of the
Council of the City as to compliance with this Chapter and pursuant regulations
and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the
prior notice which shall be served as provided in Section
12-413 of this Chapter. Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of
the mobile home park or travel trailer park shall be revoked. (Prior Code, Sec.
4-35)
12-416: APPEALS:
Appeals from decisions of the Council of the City shall be to the District
Court. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-35)
12-417: EMERGENCY ACTION WITHOUT NOTICE:
Whenever the Inspection Officer or Health Officer finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the
Inspection Officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he
may deem it necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the
permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the City Council shall be
afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been
completed. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-35)
12-418: MANUFACTURED, MOBILE, AND MODULAR HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS NOT
PERMITTED IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, no freestanding mobile home or travel
trailer shall be permitted in the City urban area unless it is being offered
for sale or parked for storage. Those freestanding mobile homes which are now
nonconforming uses under the provisions of the City Zoning Ordinance may
continue as nonconforming uses provided that they shall not be stored in front
yards or on side yards abutting a street on corner lots or on streets.
   B.   No freestanding travel trailer shall be permitted in the City urban
area unless it is being actively offered for sale or parked for storage;
provided, however, that no travel trailer shall be stored in front yards or on
side yards abutting a street on corner lots or on streets, and further provided
that no water plumbing or permanent electrical connections shall be permitted.
   C.   Construction of a manufactured home, mobile home, or modular home is
only permitted in a MHR Mobile Home Residential District or Mobile Home
Subdivision, as defined and set forth in the City of Prague Zoning Ordinance,
Official Zoning Map, and Prague Municipal Airport Heights Zoning Map, or any
amendments or revisions thereto.
   D.   No manufactured home, mobile home, or modular home may be constructed
in any A Agricultural District, C-1 Light Commercial District, C-2 General
Commercial District, I-1 Light Industrial District, I-2 Heaving Industrial
District, R-1 Single-family Residential District, R-2 Duplex Residential
District, R-3 Multifamily Residential District, O-1 Office District, LP Lake
Preservation District, FW Floodway Supplemental District, APZ Airport Heights
Restriction Zones, or PUD Planned Unit Development District, as defined and set
forth in the City of Prague Zoning Ordinance, Official Zoning Map, and Prague
Municipal Airport Heights Zoning Map, or any amendments or revisions thereto.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-36; amd. Ord. 496, 3-13-2023; Ord. 497, 7-10-2023)
12-419: NOT TO BE USED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES:
Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular commercial public
home or travel trailer sales lots or in other than R-1 Residential District,
each freestanding mobile home or travel trailer offered for sale must be
clearly marked as such, shall not be occupied for either living or sleeping
purposes and must be removed from the premises if not sold within one hundred
twenty (120) days. Freestanding mobile homes or travel trailers located within
regular commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need be neither
individually marked for sale nor removed within one hundred twenty (120) days
if not sold. A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more
than one mobile home or travel trailer on a residential lot. The property owner
shall not actively offer for sale more than one mobile home in any twelve (12)
month period. Such mobile home or travel trailer shall not be stored in any
required front yard or side yard or public utility easement, nor shall such
mobile home or travel trailer project beyond the front of any building. (Prior
Code, Sec. 4-36)
12-420: FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES IN RURAL AREAS:
Freestanding mobile homes shall be permitted in the City rural area but only so
permitted in agricultural zoning districts as established by the City Zoning
Ordinance. Permits for such freestanding mobile homes shall be issued by the
Inspection Officer, but only when the applicant agrees in writing to remove
such mobile home if site is rezoned to a district other than agricultural or is
abutted within six hundred sixty feet (660') by districts other than
agricultural. Such freestanding mobile homes must comply with normal City
regulations, except the specific qualifications to the housing code outlined
for mobile homes in the minimum housing code of the City. (1983 Code)
12-421: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS NEED LICENSE:
No nonresidential mobile trailer being used commercially shall be permitted in
the City unless a license for its operation is issued by the Inspection
Officer. Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the
permit. No license shall be issued for use which would violate any City, State
or Federal ordinance, law or regulation. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-37)
12-422: LICENSE FEE:
A quarterly fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged for each
nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on April 30, each
year, and be renewable on May 1 of each year thereafter. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
37)
12-423: OPERATION OF TRAILERS BY CONTRACTORS ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS,
WATCHMEN:
   A.   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors on construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by government units is permitted during the term of such construction
project without issuance of a license.
   B.   Operation of a nonresidential trailer for the explicit use of a
caretaker or night watchman on a permanent basis is permitted, provided all
other regulations of this Chapter are complied with. A quarterly fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) shall be charged each such nonresidential mobile trailer
license, which shall expire on April 30 each year and be renewable on May 1 of
each year thereafter. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-37)
12-424: PERMANENT LOCATION NOT AUTHORIZED:
This Chapter is not to be construed as permitting or authorizing the permanent
location of any nonresidential mobile trailer in the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
37)
12-425: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO NEW AND EXISTING MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL
TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   All new mobile home parks and travel trailer parks planned for
development after the date of passage of this Chapter shall conform to the
regulations and standards established in Section
12-426 et seq., of this Chapter.
   B.   Those mobile home and travel trailer parks already developed before the
date of passage of this Chapter shall not be governed by the regulations and
standards established in Section
12-426 et seq., of this Chapter unless specifically stated herein; provided,
however, that no existing mobile home or travel trailer park shall be permitted
to expand or have placed a greater number of mobile homes or travel trailers
within its existing boundaries unless these additional units conform to all of
the regulations and standards of this Section; and provided further that any
existing mobile home or travel trailer park shall not be expanded beyond its
existing boundaries unless the new area developed conforms to all the
regulations and standards of this Chapter. (1983 Code)
12-426: TYPES OF PARKS:
   A.   Parks shall be of three (3) types:
      1.   Mobile home parks;
      2.   Travel trailer parks; and
      3.   Mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks.
   B.   No dependent travel trailer shall be located in a mobile home park and
used for occupancy. In a mixed park, separate areas shall be reserved for
mobile homes and for travel trailers. No mobile home shall be permitted in the
travel trailer sector. No travel trailer shall be permitted in the mobile home
sector. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-427: LOCATION OF PARKS; DRAINAGE:
All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water; drainage
shall not endanger any water supply. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-428: MINIMUM AREA:
The minimum area of any park shall be two (2) acres. However, parks in
existence on the initial effective date of this Chapter can continue to operate
with less than two (2) acres. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-429: INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten (10)
mobile homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than fifteen
(15) travel trailers per gross acre for a travel trailer park. Area used for
sewage treatment facilities shall not be included in density computations.
Mobile home spaces shall be at least thirty feet (30') wide where pads are
close to driveways.
   B.   Travel trailer spaces shall be at least twenty five feet (25') wide
where travel trailers are located closest to the driveway. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
38)
12-430: SPACES TO BE CLEARLY DEFINED:
Every mobile home space and travel trailer space shall be clearly defined.
Mobile homes and travel trailers shall be parked in such spaces that at the
nearest point they shall be at least twenty feet (20') from any other mobile
home or travel trailer. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-431: LOCATION OF MOBILE OR TRAVEL TRAILER:
It is unlawful to locate a mobile or travel trailer less than ten feet (10')
from any public street or highway right of way or so that any part of such
mobile home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway of such
park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-432: DRIVEWAYS:
All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed-surface driveway of not less
than twenty feet (20') in width if on-street parking is prohibited and twenty
six feet (26') in width if on-street parking is permitted on one side of the
street only. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-433: EXISTENCE PRIOR TO THIS CHAPTER, SAFETY HAZARD; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   In mobile home parks or travel trailer parks existing at the initial
effective date of this Chapter parking on or adjacent to the street within the
park is permissible so long as it does not obstruct free movement of traffic.
Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the
Planning Commission, with final appeal to the City Council. If, upon final
appeal before the City Council, it is determined by the Council that a safety
hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home park or travel trailer park
concerned will be required to comply with subsection B of this Section.
   B.   In new mobile home parks at least two (2) clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each mobile home space either on or adjacent to the
mobile home space. In new travel trailer parks at least one parking space shall
be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space. (Prior Code,
Sec. 4-38)
12-434: COMPOSITION OF DRIVEWAYS AND WALKWAYS:
All driveways and walkways within a park shall be at least asphalt oil rock
sealed surface. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-435: CLOTHES DRYING SPACES AND FACILITIES:
Outside drying spaces or other clothes drying facilities shall be provided in
every mobile home park or travel trailer park. Mobile home parks shall have at
least fifty (50) linear feet of clothes drying lines or one mechanical clothes
drying unit in good condition; mechanical units shall be located in a service
building. Travel trailer parks and mixed parks shall have at least twenty five
(25) linear feet of outdoor clothes drying line for each travel trailer space,
or one mechanical clothes drying unit for the first ten (10) travel trailer
spaces, or any fraction thereof, and an additional unit for each ten (10)
additional travel trailer spaces or any fraction thereof. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
38)
12-436: LANDSCAPING OF PARKS:
All mobile home parks shall provide a suitable screening of landscaping, and
also opaque fencing shall be installed where abutting existing single-family
residential areas. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-38)
12-437: APPLICATION OF SERVICE BUILDINGS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All new mobile home parks and travel trailer parks planned for
development after the date of passage of this Chapter shall conform to the
regulations and standards established in this Section et seq.
   B.   Those mobile home and travel trailer parks already developed before the
date of passage of this Chapter shall not be governed by the regulations and
standards established in this Section et seq., unless specifically stated
herein. However, no existing mobile home or travel trailer park shall be
permitted to expand or have placed a greater number of mobile homes or travel
trailers within its existing boundaries unless these additional units conform
to all of the regulations and standards of this Section et seq. An existing
mobile home or travel trailer park shall not be expanded beyond its existing
boundaries unless the new area developed conforms to all the regulations and
standards of this Section et seq. (1983 Code)
12-438: SERVICE BUILDING FOR TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one service
building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities as required in this Chapter. No service building shall contain less
than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory and shower or
bathtub for each sex, and one laundry tray.
   B.   All sanitary facilities required by Section
12-439 of this Chapter shall be located in service building. (Prior Code, Sec.
4-39)
12-439: FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   Each park accommodating dependent travel trailers shall provide the
following:
      1.   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two (2)
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten (10) travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten (10), not less than one
additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten (10) additional
travel trailers or fractional number thereof; and
      2.   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two (2)
flush toilets for the first six (6) travel trailer spaces or any less number
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of six (6) not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten (10) additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof in excess of six (6).
   B.   There shall be provided for occupants of each sex not less than one
lavatory and one shower or bathtub with individual dressing accommodations for
the first six (6) travel trailer spaces or any less, and at least one
additional lavatory and one additional shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for every six (6) additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof.
   C.   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
   D.   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females shall
either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same building, by
a soundproof wall.
   E.   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bed pans and other
containers of human excreta or a slop sink with at least a three inch (3") trap
and adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing of such bedpans or
containers.
   F.   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-39)
12-440: LOCATION OF SERVICE BUILDING:
Travel trailer spaces shall be not more than two hundred feet (200') from a
service building. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-39)
12-441: SPECIFICATION OF SERVICE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Service buildings shall:
      1.   Be located twenty five feet (25') or more from any travel trailer
space;
      2.   Be of permanent construction, and be adequately lighted;
      3.   Be of moisture-resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      4.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather and to supply adequate
hot water during time of peak demands; and
      5.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-39)
12-442: SANITARY CONDITION TO BE MAINTAINED:
All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained in a
clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the
health of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace. (Prior Code, Sec.
4-39)
12-443: LAUNDRY FACILITIES:
Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit to every
thirty (30) travel trailer spaces and shall be in a separate soundproof room of
a service building or in a separate building. A laundry shall consist of not
less than one washing and one drying machine. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-39)
12-444: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Waste from showers, bathtub, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop sinks and
laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be discharged
into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or private sewer and
lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as approved by the
Oklahoma State Health Department and in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-40)
12-445: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a four inch (4") sewer
connection at least four inches (4") above the surface of the ground. The sewer
connection should be protected by a concrete collar of at least four inches
(4") thick and have a minimum outside diameter of twenty four inches (24"). The
sewer connection shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple and
provided with a screw cap. Connection between the mobile home drain and the
sewer must be watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from
which back siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park's water
system until defect has been corrected. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-40)
12-446: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM TO BE MADE WHEN POSSIBLE:
In the event that a public sewer system is or becomes available within three
hundred feet (300') of a mobile home park or travel trailer park, connection
must be made to the public system within one hundred eighty (180) days. (Prior
Code, Sec. 4-40)
12-447: REQUIRED RECEPTION OF SEWAGE BY OCCUPANTS:
Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into the park
sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated waste into the system. Every
dependent trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle provided
in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park. Such
receptacles must be approved by the Oklahoma State Health Department. Any other
dump of accumulated waste within the City is prohibited. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
40)
12-448: PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM DESIGN:
The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on the maximum
capacity of the park. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will
not create a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner
or occupants of any adjacent property. The State Health Department must approve
the type of treatment proposed and the design of any disposal facilities and
sewer systems prior to construction. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-40)
12-449: SEWERAGE CONNECTIONS TO BE WATERTIGHT:
Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall maintain trailer
and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good condition and be
responsible that there is no sewerage or water leakage on the park premises.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-40)
12-450: APPLICATION OF WATER SUPPLY; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All new mobile home parks and travel trailer parks planned for
development after the initial effective date of this Chapter shall conform to
the regulations and standards established in this Section et seq.
   B.   Those mobile home and travel trailer parks already developed before the
initial effective date of this Chapter shall not be governed by the regulations
and standards established in this Section et seq., unless specifically stated
herein. However, no existing mobile home or travel trailer park shall be
permitted to expand or have placed a greater number of mobile homes or travel
trailers within its existing boundaries unless these additional units conform
to all of the regulations and standards of this Section et seq. Any existing
mobile home or travel trailer park shall not be expanded beyond its existing
boundaries unless the new area developed conforms to all the regulations and
standards of this Section et seq. (1983 Code)
12-451: WATER SUPPLY AMOUNTS:
An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided in
each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of two hundred fifty (250) gallons
per day per mobile home space. Where a public supply of such quality is
available within three hundred feet (300') of new or new construction on
existing mobile home or travel trailer park, connection shall be made thereto
and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private water supplies must be
developed, the Health Officer must approve the location, construction and
development of both the water well and pipe system and connections. No private
source other than a water well shall be used. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-41)
12-452: WATER CONNECTIONS AND PIPING:
   A.   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes to
all buildings and all mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided
with a cold water tap at least four inches (4") above the ground. An adequate
supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for
all bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   B.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
State and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be
weathertight.
   C.   All water piping within the park shall be designed to deliver five (5)
psi at each water tap. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-41)
12-453: CONSTRUCTION OF INDIVIDUAL WATER CONNECTIONS:
Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use by
mobile homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction so that they will
not be damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The park
system shall be adequate to provide twenty (20) pounds per square inch of
pressure at all mobile home or travel trailer connections. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
41)
12-454: LOCATION OF WATER SUPPLY FROM SPACE:
Provisions shall be made within one hundred fifty feet (150') of each travel
trailer space to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs. (Prior Code, Sec.
4-41)
12-455: PUMPS AND WELL CASING, DRAINS:
No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be located in
any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room or space
aboveground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed unless such rooms, whether
above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface. All floors
shall be watertight sloped from the pump pedestal to the drain, and floors
shall extend at least two feet (2') from the wall in all directions. The
pedestal shall not be less than twelve inches (12") above the floor. This shall
not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-41)
12-456: WATER STORAGE:
All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of impervious
material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be effectively
screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be constructed with
overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of contaminated material.
Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any pipe in which sewage
or polluted water may back up. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-41)
12-457: DRINKING FOUNTAINS:
Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of a type
and in locations approved by the Health Officer. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-41)
12-458: STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so managed
as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas,
accident or fire hazards or air pollution. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-42)
12-459: REFUSE CONTAINERS:
All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodent-proof containers,
which shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any mobile home
space or travel trailer space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient
numbers and capacity to properly store all refuse. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-42)
12-460: RACKS AND HOLDERS FOR REFUSE CONTAINERS; CONSTRUCTION:
Racks and holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container
racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
42)
12-461: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly or as otherwise
required by the Health Officer. Where Municipal garbage collection is not
available, the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency
or provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
   B.   Where Municipal or other private disposal service is not available the
mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial or transporting
to an approved disposal site as directed by the Health Officer. Refuse shall be
buried only at locations and by methods approved by the Health Officer and in
accordance with the ordinances of the City.
   C.   When Municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-42)
12-462: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL MEASURES:
Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as required by
the Inspection Officer shall be applied in the mobile home park or travel
trailer park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-44)
12-463: LARVICIDAL SOLUTIONS:
Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Inspection Officer or
Health Officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by
other, more permanent measures. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-44)
12-464: INSECT OR NOXIOUS WEED CONTROL:
The Inspection Officer or Health Officer may require the park operator to take
suitable measures to control other insects and noxious weeds. (Prior Code, Sec.
4-44)
12-465: DEBRIS:
Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall not be
permitted in the mobile home park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-44)
12-466: RATS OR OTHER RODENTS:
When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park, the park
operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Inspection Officer or
Health Officer, to exterminate them. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-44)
12-467: ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
An electrical outlet supplying at least 100 amperes shall be provided for each
mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable State and
local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets and extension
lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. All trailer houses shall be
grounded to meet the approval of the Electrical Inspector. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
45)
12-468: STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS TO BE LIGHTED:
Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel trailer parks shall be
lighted with streetlights meeting the current standards of the Illuminating
Engineering Society or one-half (1/2) candlepower, whichever is higher. (Prior
Code, Sec. 4-45)
12-469: FUEL PIPING TO MOBILE HOMES:
All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes shall
be of acceptable material as determined by the Inspection Officer and shall be
permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage tanks or
cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside
or beneath the mobile home or less than five feet (5') from any mobile home
exit. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-46)
12-470: LITTER, RUBBISH AND FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable materials.
(Prior Code, Sec. 4-47)
12-471: FIRES:
Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating equipment
intended for such purposes. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-47)
12-472: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   All parks shall conspicuously post fire and safety rules and
regulations as follows:
      1.   Name: Name of park;
      2.   Fire Safety: Fire safety rules and regulations;
      3.   Emergency Facilities:
         a.   The telephone number of Fire Department is              ;
         b. The telephone number of Police Department is              ;
         c. The telephone number of mobile home park office is                ;
and
         d. The nearest public telephone is                .
      4. Services: The connecting and disconnecting of water, fuel and
electrical services will be made only by park personnel and other authorized
person as determined by court management. Should these services be interrupted,
telephone or notify the park office or other; for water                ; for
fuel                ; for electrical                 ;
      5. Fire Fighting Equipment: It is recommended that each coach owner have
UL approved portable hand fire extinguishers mounted in easily accessible
locations;
      6. Procedure In Case Of Fire: In case of fire in your trailer, tenants
should do these things in the following order: a) get the occupants out of the
trailer; b) call the Fire Department and call the park management. The
important thing to do is to get the professional firefighters at the fire. In
case of fire in the area, tenants should call the Fire Department, use portable
extinguishers on the fire, and call the park management;
      7. Fire Conditions: Tenants can aid mobile home park management in
keeping the area free from such conditions by notifying trailer park management
when they recognize unsafe conditions. Constant vigilance is necessary to
maintain the premises free from fire at all times. Fire safety is everyone's
job;
      8. Rubbish: Tenants shall keep the area under and around their units free
from an accumulation of rubbish, paper, leaves and brush;
      9. Empty Fuel Containers: Tenants shall not place empty fuel containers
under their units. These containers shall be left in place;
      10. Home Inspections: Through the facilities of your local fire
department, your home can be inspected by members of this department at
designated times. If you would like to have a voluntary inspection of your
unit, please notify the park office; and
      11. Traffic Regulations: Operators of vehicular equipment shall observe
the posted traffic signs or signals. Keep fire lanes open. (1983 Code)
12-473: PLUMBING AND ELECTRICAL ALTERATIONS OR REPAIRS:
All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall be made in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-48)
12-474: SKIRTING OF MOBILE HOMES:
Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such skirting
shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or create a
fire hazard. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-48)
12-475: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ANY STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS OR
ALTERATIONS:
A permit issued by the Inspection Officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home shall take place. No construction or addition or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall
be permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All such construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with local and State laws. No permit shall be required for the
addition of steps, canopies, awnings or antennas. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-48)
12-476: REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
A. Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record of all
mobile home and travel trailer owners and occupants located within the park.
The register shall contain the following information:
      1. The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home and
motor vehicle by which it is towed;
      2. The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      3. The state, territory or country issuing such license;
      4. The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home;
      5. Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile
home; and
      6. Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be identified in a park space
by some clear, legible and orderly external method of identification or
numbering system.
   B. The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times by
law enforcement officers, public health officials and City officials, whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
The register record of each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a
period of one year following the date of departure of the registrant from the
park. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-49)
12-477: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not be
kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The Health Officer
shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is damaged or dilapidated to
a point which makes the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for human occupancy
on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a determination is
made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be vacated and removed from the
premises. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-50)
12-478: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the Subdivision and Zoning
Ordinances of the City except as otherwise provided.
   B.   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be two (2) acres.
   C.   No residence except a manufactured home, mobile home, or modular home
shall be permitted in a mobile home subdivision. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-52; amd.
Ord.496, 3-13-2023; Ord. 497, 7-10-2023)
12-479: MINIMUM EFFECTIVE LOTS IN SUBDIVISIONS:
Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home subdivision shall be forty feet
(40') measured at the front building line and minimum lot areas shall be four
thousand (4,000) square feet, provided that at least five foot (5') side yards
shall be provided on each lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto, and
further provided that in areas not serviced by the public sewer the minimum
additional lot area shall be determined by the Health Officer on the basis of
safe and sanitary sewer service. The effective lot width of a mobile home shall
be determined for interior lots by measuring at right angles across the lot
from one diagonal side line to the other, and for corner lots the measurement
shall be made at right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence
from perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof. (Prior
Code, Sec. 4-52)
12-480: SIDE LINE OF LOTS:
   A. Side line of lots in mobile subdivisions need not be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   B. Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots must
abut a public street for at least twenty five feet (25'). (Prior Code, Sec. 4-
52)
12-481: GREENBELT PLANTING STRIP:
All mobile home subdivisions shall provide suitable screening where abutting
single-family residential areas. (1983 Code)
12-482: SUPERVISION:
The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall
be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this Chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-53)
12-483: POSTING OF LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT:
The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the travel trailer
park at all times. (Prior Code, Sec. 4-54)
12-484: PENALTY:
Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate or registration is required by this Chapter,
without having a valid license, permit, certificate or certificate of
registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this
Chapter or by any code adopted by this Chapter, or who shall otherwise violate
any provision of this Chapter or of any code adopted by this Chapter, or who
shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this Chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (1983 Code)
12-485: RELIEF IN THE COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this Chapter shall interfere with the
right of the City also to apply to the proper courts of the State for a
mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against such person. (1983
Code)
CHAPTER 5
PENALTY
SECTION:
12-501: Penalty
12-501: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Part or any of the chapters or
regulations adopted in full or by reference herein, is guilty of an offense and
upon conviction shall be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 16-15)
PART 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
Fire Prevention   1
Fire Department And Service   2
Emergency Management   3
Police Department And Services   4
Police Department   4A
Police Board Of Review (Rep. by Ord. 303,
4-19-1993)   4B
Police Reserve   4C
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-101: Adoption Of Fire Code
13-102: Fire Department To Enforce Code
13-103: Limits Within Which Storage Of Flammable Liquids In Outside Aboveground
Tanks Is Prohibited
13-104: Limits In Which Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases Is To Be
Restricted; New Businesses
13-105: Limits In Which Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents Are
Prohibited
13-106: Modifications
13-107: New Materials, Processes, Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
13-108: Appeals
13-109: Penalties
13-110: Transportation Of Inflammable Liquids
13-111: Burning Rubbish
13-112: Permission To Use Fire Hydrants
13-101: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the international fire code, being
particularly the latest edition thereof and each subsequent edition upon
approval and adoption by the state of Oklahoma, save and except such portions
as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this code. The
international fire code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein. If any provisions of current ordinances of the city are
in conflict with the provisions of the fire code, except as provided in this
chapter, the provisions of the fire code shall prevail. (Ord. 392, 11-14-2005)
13-102: FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE CODE:
   A.   The fire code shall be enforced by the fire department of the city,
under the supervision of the chief of the fire department. The terms "bureau of
fire prevention" and "chief of the bureau of fire prevention", wherever found
in the fire code, shall mean fire department and chief of the fire department,
respectively, of this city. Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the
fire code, it means this city. Whenever the word "corporation counsel" is used
in the code, it means the city attorney of this city.
   B.   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as may from time to time be necessary. (Prior code §
8-2)
13-103: LIMITS WITHIN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND
TANKS IS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The limits referred to in the fire code, in which storage of flammable
liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, are hereby established as
the fire zone.
   B.   The limits referred to in the fire code, in which new bulk plants for
flammable liquids are prohibited, are hereby established as the fire zone.
(Prior code § 8-3)
13-104: LIMITS IN WHICH BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES IS TO BE
RESTRICTED; NEW BUSINESSES 1 :
The limits referred to in the fire code, in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum has been prohibited, are hereby established as the city limits. It is
unlawful for any person to establish, erect, construct, or enlarge a new plant
or place of business within the city limits for manufacturing, distributing, or
handling liquefied petroleum gas or gases. (Prior code § 8-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also part 5, chapter 5 of this code.
13-105: LIMITS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS ARE
PROHIBITED:
The limits referred to in the fire prevention code, in which storage of
explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established as the
City limits. (Prior Code, Sec. 8-5)
13-106: MODIFICATIONS:
The Fire Chief, with the approval of the City Council, shall have power to
modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification
when granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Chief and Council thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the Council, and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant. (Prior Code, Sec. 8-6)
13-107: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The Chief of the Fire Department and two (2) persons appointed by the Mayor
with approval of the Council shall act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those
now enumerated in the fire code. The Fire Chief shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons. (Prior Code, Sec. 8-7)
13-108: APPEALS:
Whenever the Fire Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief to the City Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the
decision appealed. (1983 Code)
13-109: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire prevention
code hereby adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to
comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as
provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (1983 Code)
13-110: TRANSPORTATION OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to transport, to
deliver, unload or transfer at any point within the City any gasoline, kerosene
or other inflammable or combustible substance in or from a tank, tank truck,
transport or vehicle. However, such transporting, delivering, unloading or
transferring may be done with and from a tank truck if the following safety
precautions are observed:
      1.   The tank vehicle during unloading or loading must have the driver
thereof in attendance at the shut-off valve at all times during such operation;
      2.   No person shall smoke or be permitted to smoke in the vicinity of
such vehicle during the unloading or transferring operations; and
      3.   No unloading or transferring from any tank truck shall be made to
any storage tank within the fire limits unless such storage tank has above the
ground level a vent pipe of at least eight feet (8') in height. (1983 Code)
13-111: BURNING RUBBISH:
   A.   It is unlawful to burn rubbish, including all kinds of refuse and
trash, within the fire limits of the City.
   B.   Rubbish may be burned outside the fire limits within the City only in
incinerators, or waste burners, of a kind approved by the Fire Chief and the
State Department of Health, and under the supervision of some competent person.
The Fire Chief may prohibit the burning of rubbish on certain days and at
certain times by the issuance of such prohibition, which shall go into effect
only when published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City. Rubbish
may not be burned in streets, alleys, and other public ways, nor on property
not under one's control without consent of the person in charge of such
property. (Prior Code, Sec. 8-11)
13-112: PERMISSION TO USE FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person residing or doing business in the City to
use water from a hydrant or water equipment installed at the residence or place
of business of another, without first receiving written permission to do so
from the Water Superintendent of the City by paying in advance on the first of
each month to such Superintendent for such privilege a sum as set by the City
Council by motion or resolution.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who has at their residence or place of
business a water hydrant or equipment, to permit any person to use water from
the same in violation of the provisions of this Section. (Prior Code, Sec. 8-
10)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICE
SECTION:
13-201: Fire Department; Chief Of The Department
13-202: Volunteer Firefighters
13-203: Duties Of The Fire Chief
13-204: Duties Of The Assistant Chief
13-205: Company Officers
13-206: The Secretary-Treasurer
13-207: New Members; Residency
13-208: Bylaws
13-209: Rules And Regulations
13-210: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
13-211: Service Authorized Outside City Limits
13-212: Service Fees
13-213: Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
13-214: Department Considered Agent Of State
13-201: FIRE DEPARTMENT; CHIEF OF THE DEPARTMENT 1 :
There shall be a fire department, the head of which shall be the chief of the
fire department appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and
removable by the manager. The majority of the members of the fire department
shall make a recommendation to the city manager of two (2) names for
consideration of the appointment of fire chief by the city manager. In the
event both names submitted for consideration do not meet with the city
manager's approval, or does not meet city and state qualifications, the city
manager shall appoint a qualified fire chief of his choosing. The chief of the
fire department shall be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and
control of the fire department. It is the duty of the fire department, among
others, to follow state law in providing a uniform system of fire protection
for the lives and property of the people of the city, to extinguish fires; to
rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere, in case of an
emergency; to promote fire prevention and safety of persons from fire and
explosions in theaters, stores and other public buildings. (Ord. 325, 12-9-
1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 29-101 et seq., 29-201 et seq.
13-202: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   The fire department of the city is a volunteer fire department which
has in its employ not more than two (2) full time salaried firefighters. It
shall be comprised of not less than twelve (12) nor more than twenty five (25)
volunteer firefighters. (Ord. 403, 1-14-2008)
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department and who
serves in the capacity without receiving a regular salary. (Prior code § 1-12)
13-203: DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   The chief shall be at the head of the department, subject to the laws
of the state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations adopted in
this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him;
      2.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case;
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice that the owner or occupant must correct any violations that may
be found;
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the city manager as he may require; and
      9.   The chief shall make monthly reports to the city manager on each
fire during the month and the names of each member of the department present at
each fire. (Prior code § 1-13; amd. Ord. 213, 2-7-1978)
13-204: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. (Prior code § 1-14)
13-205: COMPANY OFFICERS:
   A.   Company officers shall be selected by the chief based upon the
following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (Prior code § 1-5)
13-206: THE SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   One member elected by the members of the fire department shall be a
secretary-treasurer. His duties consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (Prior code
§ 1-16)
13-207: NEW MEMBERS; RESIDENCY:
   A.   New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief, approved
by the city manager, and shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment. Upon completion of their probation period, new members must be
approved by the majority of the other members of the department. (Ord. 395, 1-
9-2006)
   B.   Any volunteer firefighter must live within the fire district. All
volunteer firefighters must be able to arrive from their residence at the fire
station within ten (10) minutes. No more than fifty percent (50%) of the
members of the volunteer fire department are allowed to reside outside the city
limits. (Ord. 354, 2-14-2000)
13-208: BYLAWS:
   A.   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
      1.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified,
to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
      2.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
      3.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month;
      4.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls;
      5.   Any member leaving the city for an extended period of time is
required to notify the chief;
      6.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the department will be dropped; and
      7.   Any member of the Fire Department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
         a.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         b.   Any act of insubordination;
         c.   Neglect of duty;
         d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
         e.   Conviction of a felony. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-18)
13-209: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council by motion or resolution may adopt and change regulations
relating to the Fire Department, its organization, operation and compensation.
Before the City Council amends, adopts or repeals any such rules and
regulations, the City Manager and the Fire Chief shall have a right to be
heard. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-20)
13-210: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
   A.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the Department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the Department.
   B.   The Chief shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all property
belonging to the Fire Department, and shall at the expiration of his term turn
over such inventory and all such property to his successor, together with all
books, records, reports, and data of the Department.
   C.   The Chief shall report to the City Manager any necessary repairs,
alterations or improvements needed by the Fire Department with an estimate of
their probable cost, and shall superintend the making of the repairs,
alterations or improvements, and if any apparatus shall become disabled for
immediate use, he shall repair the same and report his action to the Council.
(1983 Code)
13-211: SERVICE AUTHORIZED OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The Fire Department of the City is hereby authorized and directed to answer all
fire and other emergency calls outside the corporate limits of the City in an
area at least, but not limited to, five (5) miles at the discretion of the Fire
Chief. The Fire Chief may refuse to respond to such calls if, in his opinion,
it is not expedient to do so on account of fire in the City, broken apparatus,
impassable or dangerous highways, demands for firefighters or equipment
elsewhere in the City, or other physical conditions which would make such
response impractical and hazardous. (Ord. 276, 2-11-1985)
13-212: SERVICE FEES:
The fee for rural fire runs made by the volunteer Fire Department shall be
three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for the first hour, and one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) per truck for each hour thereafter with a maximum charge of
six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00), not to include added equipment or special
supplies. (Res. 96-02, 3-18-1996)
13-213: FIREFIGHTERS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
All firefighters of the Fire Department of the City attending and serving at
fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of the City,
as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of
duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the City.
(1983 Code)
13-214: DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE:
The Fire Department of the City answering any fire alarm, or call, or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
City shall be considered as an agent of the State, and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and the Municipality shall not be liable in damages
for any act of commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning
from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by
virtue of Sections
13-211 to
13-214 of this Chapter. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
13-301: Purpose Of Emergency Management Agency; Definitions
13-302: Emergency Management Agency Created
13-303: Director Of Emergency Management; Powers And Duties
13-304: To Formulate Plans And Gather Information
13-305: Duties Of Director During Emergencies
13-306: To Enforce Laws And Ordinances
13-307: City-County Agreement For A Joint Civil Defense Administration
13-308: Compensation; Liability
13-309: Ministerial Alliance Chaplain Program
13-301: PURPOSE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; DEFINITIONS 1 :
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to create an Emergency Management Agency
for the City to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of such City. The duty of such
Emergency Management Agency shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the City and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto.
   B.   As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be construed as
follows, unless a contrary intent appears clear from the context:
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparations for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which primary responsibility is
assigned elsewhere by Federal, State, or local law or ordinance, to protect
public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve lives and property, in the
City during any emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other
hostile action, or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, tornado,
earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or near the City and involving
imminent or actual peril to life and property in the City. These functions
include administration, organization, planning, recruiting, training,
education, information, welfare service, relief service, police service, warden
service, fire service, rescue service, medical service, health service,
transportation service, communications service, street and sewer service,
utilities service, general engineering service, plant protection service,
supply service, mutual aid, mobile support, evacuation, and all other functions
necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the
foregoing functions.
ENEMY-CAUSED EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States,
and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the City. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the Mayor of the City so declares by public
proclamation, or when the governing body so declares. Such emergency shall be
deemed to continue to exist until the Mayor declares its termination by public
proclamation, or until the governing body declares its termination by
resolution.
NATURAL EMERGENCY: Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or
near the City. Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated
under the same conditions as are prescribed for an enemy-caused emergency.
(Prior Code, Sec. 1-31; amd. Res. 97-05, 5-12-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 683.11, 683.12.
13-302: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the
government of the City an Emergency Management Agency, which shall consist of:
      1.   A Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the City and serve at his pleasure; and
      2.   An Emergency Management Advisory Committee. This Committee shall
consist of the Mayor as chairman and five (5) members appointed by the Mayor
and serving at his pleasure. The Committee shall select from its members a vice
chairman and secretary. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the
Committee shall function in an advisory capacity on all matters pertaining to
emergency management. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-32; amd. Res. 97-05, 5-12-1997)
13-303: DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive head of the
Emergency Management Agency, and shall be responsible to the Mayor for carrying
out the emergency management program of the City. He shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
his duties. He shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees
or other bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief officer of
such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall
coordinate the activities of all organizations for emergency management within
the City and shall maintain liaison with and cooperate with emergency
management agencies of other governmental units, both within and without the
State, including the State and Federal governments. He shall have such
additional authority, duties and responsibilities as may be authorized by this
Chapter or other law. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-33; amd. Res. 97-05, 5-12-1997)
13-304: TO FORMULATE PLANS AND GATHER INFORMATION:
   A.   The Director of Emergency Management is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written record thereof to govern
the functions of the Emergency Management Agency.
   B.   The Director is further instructed to carry out plans with the State
officials of emergency management in cooperating with the Federal Government
and to make available to the City and County program the benefits of applicable
Federal law, subject to approval of the City and County Civil Defense Council.
(Prior Code, Sec. 1-34; amd. Res. 97-05, 5-12-1997)
13-305: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR DURING EMERGENCIES:
In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from natural
causes, the Director of Emergency Management, after due authorization from the
Mayor of the City, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to emergency management and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies
or emergency management organizations; and if required by the Mayor, shall have
control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of
alleviating distress conditions in the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-35; amd. Res.
97-05, 5-12-1997)
13-306: TO ENFORCE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The Director of Emergency Management and other members of the Emergency
Management Agency created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce
the laws of the State and ordinances of the City during the period of
emergency, and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-36; amd. Res. 97-05,
5-12-1997)
13-307: CITY-COUNTY AGREEMENT FOR A JOINT CIVIL DEFENSE ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   As executed by the Board of County Commissioners of the County and the
Mayor of the City, a City-County agreement for a joint civil defense
administration is hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter. In
conjunction therewith:
      1.   The existing joint civil defense administration shall be extended
and recognized to be the joint efforts of the City and County;
      2.   The City will share in the expense of carrying on a comprehensive
civil defense program with the County including and extending beyond the
initial contract, and the City agrees to provide, in conjunction with
reciprocal agreement by the County, in its budget for sufficient funds with
which to carry out this program of civil defense for the City and County and
any adjacent areas deemed necessary;
      3.   The receipt and expenditure of all funds will be handled in
conformity with the financial plans of the City-County civil defense
organization as approved by appropriate County and City authorities in
accordance with applicable State and Federal laws, rules and regulations; and
      4.   The Director shall coordinate with the Civil Defense Administration
prior to the beginning of each fiscal year and prepare for submission to the
City and County the prospective budget for its operation for the coming year.
Then the proper officials of the City shall decide with the County upon the
amount of such budgets. (1983 Code)
13-308: COMPENSATION; LIABILITY:
All members of the Emergency Management Agency created hereunder shall serve
without compensation, and the City shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, Sec. 1-38; amd. Res. 97-05, 5-12-1997)
13-309: MINISTERIAL ALLIANCE CHAPLAIN PROGRAM:
There is hereby created a Ministerial Alliance Chaplain Program to be known and
recognized as a division of the Prague Emergency Management Agency formerly
known as the Prague Civil Defense. (Res. 98-07, 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 4
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
   Article A. Police Department
13-401: Police Department; Chief Of Police
13-402: Duties Of Department
   Article B. Police Board Of Review (Rep. by Ord. 303, 4-19-1993)
   Article C. Police Reserve
13-430: Organization, Policies, Rules And Regulations
13-431: Appointment Of Reserve Officers
13-432: Status Of Police Reserve Members
13-433: Compensation And Uniforms
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
13-401: POLICE DEPARTMENT; CHIEF OF POLICE:
There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police
appointed by the City Manager for an indefinite term, and removable by the
Manager. The Chief of Police is an officer of the City, and has supervision and
control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the City.
(Prior Code, Sec. 1-9)
13-402: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the City; to
suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating Federal or State law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The Police Department has
charge of and operates the City jail. (Prior Code, Sec. 1-10)
ARTICLE B. POLICE BOARD OF REVIEW
   (Rep. by Ord. 303, 4-19-1993)
ARTICLE C. POLICE RESERVE
13-430: ORGANIZATION, POLICIES, RULES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
   A.   A police reserve is hereby established to augment the regular Police
Department in the event of emergency or disaster or at other times as deemed
necessary or directed by the City Manager or Chief of Police.
   B.   All members of the police reserve will be subject to the policies,
rules and regulations established for the police reserve by the Chief of
Police, subject to the approval of the City Manager and City Council.
   C.   The Chief of Police shall promulgate and publish those additional rules
and regulations consistent with this Article and as may be necessary for its
implementation. (Ord. 259, 3-8-1982)
13-431: APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Prior to appointment to the police reserve, the Police Department shall
conduct a complete background inquiry of the applicant. The applicant shall be
personally interviewed by the Chief of Police or his representative and the
applicant's photograph and fingerprints shall be obtained. Each applicant shall
agree to submit to a polygraph examination.
   B.   Each applicant shall be interviewed as to his ability to safely handle
firearms and shall submit to a physical examination to determine fitness to
perform assigned duties.
   C.   No person shall be eligible for appointment to the police reserve who
has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State or of any other
state of the United States, or any offense involving moral turpitude. It is the
duty of the Chief of Police to refuse such appointment to all minors, drug
addicts, habitual drunkards, and such other persons as he has reasonable cause
to believe are not qualified. (Ord. 259, 3-8-1982)
13-432: STATUS OF POLICE RESERVE MEMBERS:
   A.   The duly appointed members of the police reserve shall be on a
probationary status for a minimum period of one year from the date of their
appointment after which time the Chief of Police may commission them as
permanent reserve police officers. Members of the police reserve serve at the
pleasure of the Chief of Police and upon termination, for any reason, shall
have no appeal rights, and no access to the review provisions of the merit
system for the City.
   B.   Police reserve members shall be required to comply with all rules and
regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma Council on Law Enforcement Education
and training as provided for in section 3311 and title 70 of the Oklahoma
Statutes and subsequent amendments.
   C.   For the purposes of the merit system of the City, police reserve
members shall be considered as part-time permanent employees. Police reserve
members shall have no pension rights under the police pension and retirement
system of the City. (1983 Code)
13-433: COMPENSATION AND UNIFORMS:
   A.   Police reserve members will be compensated pursuant to policies, rules
and regulations established for the police reserve by the Chief of Police,
subject to the approval of the City Manager and City Council.
   B.   The City shall furnish uniforms to reserve members as prescribed by the
Chief of Police. Reserve members shall provide their own handguns and leather
equipment. Handguns must be double-action 38 caliber or larger. Reserve members
shall wear uniforms and shall carry weapons only when on duty assignments as
designated by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 259, 3-8-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-104.
PART 14
STREETS AND PUBLIC WORKS
Use And Obstruction Of Streets   1
Excavations   2
Residential Alleys And Easements   3
CHAPTER 1
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
SECTION:
14-101: Trees And Shrubbery To Be Trimmed
14-102: Penalty For Violation Of Above Section
14-103: Unlawful To Injure Trees And Shrubbery
14-104: Unlawful To Obstruct Sidewalks, Parkways, Streets And Alleys With
Merchandise
14-105: Unlawful To Obstruct Unduly Sidewalks And Streets
14-106: Unlawful To Deposit Trash Upon Streets Or Sidewalks
14-107: Unlawful To Play On Sidewalks And In Streets
14-108: Vehicles Not To Be Washed On Street
14-109: Water, Mud From Vehicle Not To Drain Into Street
14-110: Water From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
14-111: Owner Or Occupant Not To Permit Sidewalk Or Sidewalk Area To Become A
Hazard
14-112: Street Not To Be Obstructed So As To Interfere With Drainage
14-113: Penalty
14-101: TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED:
The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this City shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage
and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises are
occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-
1)
14-102: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF ABOVE SECTION:
Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in Section
14-101 of this Chapter, after receiving five (5) days' notice from the head of
the department in charge of streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense
against the City. Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five (5)
days' notice, shall be a separate offense. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-2)
14-103: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the City; provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-3)
14-104: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS WITH
MERCHANDISE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit to
be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the City any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade. (Prior
Code, Sec. 19-4)
14-105: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT UNDULY SIDEWALKS AND STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the City in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the City in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, Sec. 19-5)
14-106: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the City any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-6)
14-107: UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON SIDEWALKS AND IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main-
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the City, except as may be
authorized by ordinance. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-7)
14-108: VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET:
The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the City is
hereby prohibited. (1983 Code)
14-109: WATER, MUD FROM VEHICLE NOT TO DRAIN INTO STREET:
No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the City
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
City. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-8)
14-110: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-9)
14-111: OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-
10)
14-112: STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any
street, sidewalk, or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other
obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural
flow of water into ditches, curbing, storm sewers or drainageways, or dam the
same so as to cause any water to back up on the streets, alleys, sidewalks or
gutters belonging to the City.
   B.   Where an abutting landowner, or his or its predecessor in title, who
has constructed or maintains an approach driveway, sidewalk crossing or other
type of crossing which causes the backing up of waters in violation of
subsection A of this Section, the City shall have the immediate right to remove
the same upon giving the owner thereof notice as herein required.
   C.   When the City, through the Prague Public Works Authority, determines
that an obstruction to the natural drainage of water exists as described in
subsection A of this Section, the Director of the Prague Public Works Authority
shall give the abutting landowner immediate notice thereof and require that the
same be removed within five (5) days of the date of receipt of notice at the
owner's expense. The notice is to be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested. In the event that the owner cannot be found, the notice shall be
posted on the abutting land for a period of not less than five (5) days.
   D.   Where the abutting landowner undertakes the removal of such
obstruction, unless done in its entirety, or the repair of the crossing causing
an obstruction, the landowner shall construct or reconstruct such driveway,
sidewalk or such other crossing in accordance with the requirements of the
Prague Public Works Authority in reference to the size and type of culvert
necessary to permit the uninterrupted flow of drainage waters, and the
authority shall determine the same and notify the owner thereof, provided
however, that nothing herein shall prevent the Prague Public Works Authority
from assisting the owner in the installation of any type culvert where the
owner voluntarily agrees to pay for the material or materials used therein.
   E.   Should the owner of any such sidewalk, driveway or other type of
crossing which is causing a violation of subsection A of this Section, refuse,
fail or neglect to remove, repair, reconstruct or maintain the same as herein
required, the City may immediately remove the obstruction after the expiration
of the five (5) day notice provision herein required, and the abutting
landowner shall not thereafter be permitted to reconstruct any such crossing,
driveway approach or crossing, or sidewalk crossing without first obtaining
permission from the Prague Public Works Authority, in writing, and bearing the
entire expense and cost thereof. However, in these instances where the Prague
Public Works Authority must install culverts in order to protect the City's
streets and alleys from drainage and damage from the abutting landowner's
premises, and the landowner refuses or neglects to pay for the same or cannot
be found, the City may assess the same against the abutting landowner in the
manner provided for sidewalk improvements as by State law provided.
   F.   It is the duty and responsibility of each abutting landowner to
maintain and keep all drainage crossings in a good, safe and clean condition at
all times so that the same does not impede the natural drainage of surface
waters and shall the owners fail, neglect or refuse to do so, then the City may
remove the same as herein provided. (Ord. 281, 12-9-1985)
14-113: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
14-201: Permit Required
14-202: Applications
14-203: Fees
14-204: Bond
14-205: Deposit
14-206: Manner Of Excavating
14-207: Sidewalks
14-208: Restoring Surface
14-209: Supervision
14-210: Tunneling When Required
14-211: Penalty
14-201: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or to make
any excavation in the street, alley or other public place in the City without
having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without complying with the
provisions of this Chapter or in violation of or variance from the terms of any
such permit. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-11)
14-202: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk. The application
shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, and the person, firm, or corporation doing the
actual excavating work, and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for
whom or which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-12)
14-203: FEES:
The fee for such permits shall be determined from time to time by motion or
resolution of the Mayor and City Council. Fees when set shall be payable to the
City Clerk. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-13)
14-204: BOND:
No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the City Clerk a bond in an amount to be determined by the City
Manager conditioned to indemnify the City for any loss, liability, or damage
that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence, or manner
of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have
as surety a corporation licensed to do business in the State as a surety
company. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-14)
14-205: DEPOSIT:
   A.   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the City Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of:
      1.   Thirty five dollars ($35.00) if no pavement is involved; or
      2.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) if the excavation is in a paved area,
to ensure the proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement if
this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the City of relaying the surface
of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the City
or at its expense and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
of pavement is restored. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-15)
14-206: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   It is unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground.
   B.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the City department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   C.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-16)
14-207: SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-17)
14-208: RESTORING SURFACE:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or other public place in the City shall restore
the surface to its original condition. Refills shall be properly tamped down,
and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
   B.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances of the City and under the supervision of the Public Works
Department. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-18)
14-209: SUPERVISION:
The City Manager shall from time to time inspect or cause to be inspected all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley, or
other public place in the City to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this Chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least ten (10) hours before the
work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences. (Prior Code, Sec.
19-19)
14-210: TUNNELING WHEN REQUIRED:
Tunneling will be required when it is feasible to tunnel underneath any portion
of any street or sidewalk in the City which is paved with concrete or asphalt
paving. The street or sidewalk in the City which is paved with concrete and
asphalt paving may be excavated as otherwise provided in this Chapter, if
tunneling is not feasible after taking into consideration the location, costs,
and time involved; and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be
driven or excavated under any such pavement provided that upon completion of
the work involved the backfill shall be compacted with sand. (Prior Code, Sec.
19-20)
14-211: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as
provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 19-20)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS
SECTION:
14-301: Use
14-302: Maintenance
14-303: Damage
14-304: Penalty
14-301: USE:
Residential alleys/easements are intended for the sole use of the residential
property owners abutting said alley/easement and utility companies with
utilities in said alley/easement. (Ord. 439, 3-11-2013)
14-302: MAINTENANCE:
Property owners abutting alleys/easements shall be responsible for maintaining
said alley/easement directly behind and/or beside their property to the
midpoint of the alley/easement. This shall include keeping the alley/easement
free of high grass and weeds, trash and refuse, or anything else that would
obstruct the alley/easement (i.e., fencing, vehicles, etc.). (Ord. 439, 3-11-
2013)
14-303: DAMAGE:
Although the ultimate responsibility for the maintenance of residential alleys/
easements shall be that of the abutting residential property owners, any
vehicular access by authorized person(s) that causes damage to the alley/
easement (i.e., causes ruts) shall be responsible for returning the alley/
easement to its original condition. (Ord. 439, 3-11-2013)
14-304: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 439, 3-11-2013)
PART 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
General Provisions   1
Enforcement And General Provisions   2
Vehicle Equipment, Inspection   3
Speed Regulations   4
Driving, Overtaking, Passing   5
Traffic-Control Devices   6
Stopping, Standing And Parking Generally   7
Loading   8
Turning Movements   9
Pedestrians   10
Bicycles   11
Abandoned, Wrecked Autos   12
Impoundment Of Vehicles   13
Penalties   14
All-Terrain Vehicles   15
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-101: Citation Of Chapter
15-102: Traffic Code Controlling
15-103: Definitions
15-104: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
15-101: CITATION OF CHAPTER:
This Part and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the TRAFFIC
CODE, CITY OF PRAGUE and may so appear upon all official documents, records or
instruments. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-102: TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING:
Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this Part, the traffic
code shall be controlling in the use of City streets, alleys, thoroughfares,
parks, parkways or any other public right of way or Municipally owned land, by
pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled or otherwise
and whether moving or at rest. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-103: DEFINITIONS 1 :
As used herein:
ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of platted
blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear of
stores, dwellings, or buildings.
AMBULANCE: A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick, or injured persons.
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including a highway if
there are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks,
or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not marked
and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or traveled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the center
lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles are parked on
each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
DOUBLE-PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street Or Highway.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two (2) streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets join
at any other angle, may come in conflict; or
B. Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting
street, shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of Controlled-Access Highway.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A freight
curb loading zone is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a passenger curb loading zone is a loading
zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER, AND MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean Central
Standard Time, or daylight-saving time, as may be in current use in the City.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this Ordinance, placed or erected by authority of a public
body, or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers, providing such loading and unloading is in
an authorized place.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the Municipal Police Department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways,
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where same is adjacent and for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') in each direction.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral lines
of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
STOP: When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: A street, or boulevard or highway or portion thereof
at the entrances to which:
A. Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by law
to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
B. Stop signs are erected as provided in this Part.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS: Any device legally authorized and used for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter-mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or may
be transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1-101 et seq.
15-104: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE 1 :
The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, section
1-101 et seq. of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, and the Rules of the Road,
section
10-101 et seq. of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the City within the
City limits as fully as if set out at length herein. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 10-101 et seq., § 1-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-201: Enforcement Of Traffic Laws; Establishment Of Traffic-Control Division
15-202: Direction Of Traffic By Hand Or Voice
15-203: Direction Of Traffic By Unauthorized Persons
15-204: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
15-205: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
15-206: Pushcarts, Riding Animals, Or Driving Animal-Drawn Vehicles To Comply
With Code
15-207: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates, And Similar Devices Restricted
15-208: Public Officers And Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
15-209: Persons Working On Streets, Exceptions
15-210: Maintenance And Construction Zones
15-211: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-212: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-213: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15-214: Crossing Fire Hose
15-215: Possession Of Valid Driver's License Required
15-216: Operation Of Vehicle On Invalid License Prohibited
15-217: Unlawful To Operate Vehicle Without State Vehicle License
15-218: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive Prohibited
15-219: Accidents, Duty To Stop, Leaving Scene Of Accident
15-220: Issuance Of Citation Tags
15-221: Failure To Obey Citation
15-222: Failure To Comply With Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
15-223: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
15-224: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
15-225: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants, And Complaints
15-226: Court Records; Abstract To Be Sent To State Department Of Public Safety
15-227: Eluding Police Officer Prohibited
15-228: Investigation Of Accidents On Public And Private Property
15-229: Security Verification Form Required
15-201: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS; ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DIVISION:
It is the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any officers that
are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic laws of this
City and all the State vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this City.
Officers of the Department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the Department
by this Part and any other traffic ordinances of this City. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-202: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY HAND OR VOICE:
   A.   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   B.   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-203: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of emergency where no officer is present. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-204: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-205: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give
by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this City and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   The City Manager may have traffic-control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-206: PUSHCARTS, RIDING ANIMALS, OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES TO COMPLY
WITH CODE 1 :
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this Part applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this Part which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-104.
15-207: USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED:
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This Section shall not apply upon
any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of this
City. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-208: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS 1 :
The provisions of this Part shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States Government, any State, County,
City, or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is
unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this Part,
except as otherwise permitted in this Part by State statute. This Part shall
not apply to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the
National Guard when performing any military duty. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 16-103.
15-209: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS, EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Part, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair of
public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flagpersons. The
provisions of this Part shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles exempted
by this Section when traveling to and from such work. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-210: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the City, and City personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City Clerk, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel,
contractor or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control
devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been
closed to traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this Section and traffic- control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around such traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or
property. Persons having their places of residence or places of business within
the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their
own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the City personnel,
contractor, or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic- control devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the
street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flagpersons, or other traffic-
control devices which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic
through the construction or maintenance area. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-211: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this Section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this Section.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Part;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered; or
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   C.   The exemptions granted in this Section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   The provisions of this Section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-106.
15-212: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
State, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This Section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 11-106, 11-104, 12-218.
15-213: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED 1 :
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-108(a).
15-214: CROSSING FIRE HOSE 1 :
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1109.
15-215: POSSESSION OF VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times, when operating such motor vehicle, an
unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license as required by the
laws of the State, unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws
by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this Section shall
be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or chauffeur's license
issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest.
   B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of
any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him with
respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required on a
motor vehicle or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the State
may determine. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 6-101.
15-216: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON INVALID LICENSE PROHIBITED 1 :
No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his privilege to do so is
canceled, suspended, revoked or denied. Any person convicted of violating this
Section shall be punished by a fine as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. Each act of driving on the streets or highways as
prohibited by this Section shall constitute a separate offense. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 6-303.
15-217: UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE VEHICLE WITHOUT STATE VEHICLE LICENSE:
It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the City
without a State vehicle license as may be required by law or to fail to display
the State vehicle license as may be required by law. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-218: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under
his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not authorized
under the provisions of the laws of the State to operate such vehicle. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-219: ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT 1 :
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall upon
request exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the Police Department. If a driver makes out a written
report of the accident in the office of the Police Department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the State
Department of Public Safety in accordance with State law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this Section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 10-101 et seq.
15-220: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS:
   A.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this Part.
   B.   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   C.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   D.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   E.   The City Manager may require that the police officers use citation tags
furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are serially numbered,
and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-221: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise to
appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-222: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE:
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this Section. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-223: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this Section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this Chapter has been followed. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-224: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this Chapter. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-225: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this State or any
traffic law of this City shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the Court or by other official
action by a judge of the Court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this Chapter. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-226: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY:
   A.   The Municipal Court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the Court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this Chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state department
of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (Prior code ch. 20)
15-227: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. A "visual or audible signal" for
the purpose of this section means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car. (Prior code ch. 20)
15-228: INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY:
In accordance with the terms of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 11-1008, any duly
qualified police officer of the city is hereby authorized to investigate motor
vehicle accidents on public property or on private property where the public is
invited. (Ord. 270, 8-8-1983)
15-229: SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person operating a motor vehicle
registered in this state to fail to carry in the motor vehicle a current
security verification form evidencing the existence of liability insurance upon
a form issued by an approved insurance company or a form approved by the
department of public safety of the state. (Ord. 271, 10-10-1983)
   B.   Any violation of the provisions of this section, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2006)
   C.   Any person charged with violation of subsection A of this section who
thereafter produces proof that a current security verification form or
equivalent form which has been issued by the department of public safety was in
force for such person at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to
dismissal of such charge.
   D.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk of the city shall forward an abstract to the department of public safety
within ten (10) days of such conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of
sentence, reflecting the action taken by the court. (Ord. 271, 10-10-1983)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, INSPECTION
SECTION:
15-301: Certain Vehicles Prohibited; Vehicles Injurious To Streets
15-302: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
15-303: Equipment
15-304: Mufflers, Cutouts
15-305: Width, Height, Length, And Load
15-301: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS 1 :
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street, shall be driven or moved on any street. (Prior code ch. 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 12-101 et seq.
15-302: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (Prior code
ch. 20)
15-303: EQUIPMENT 1 :
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city
which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use such
equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by
law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon a street of the city. (Prior code ch. 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 12-201 et seq.
15-304: MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicle with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (Prior code ch. 20)
15-305: WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH, AND LOAD 1 :
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, height, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (Prior code ch. 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 14-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
15-401: Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
15-402: School Zones
15-403: Speed Never To Exceed That Which Is Reasonable Or Prudent For Existing
Conditions
15-404: Minimum Speed Requirements; Exception
15-405: Obedience To Maximum And Minimum Speed Limits
15-401: SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty five (25)
miles per hour upon any street or highway within the City except:
      1.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this Code;
      2.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      3.   When a different speed limit is established in this Code.
   B.   The City Council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the
speed limits provided in this Code, and when it does so, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
higher speed limit. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 11-801, 11-804.
15-402: SCHOOL ZONES 1 :
No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than the posted miles per hour
between the hours posted on any street adjacent to any school in a designated
school zone on days when school is in session, unless a different speed limit
or time is otherwise designated and posted. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 15-102, 11-803.
15-403: SPEED NEVER TO EXCEED THAT WHICH IS REASONABLE OR PRUDENT FOR EXISTING
CONDITIONS:
No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable
or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into consideration among
other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic, roadway surface or
width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of pedestrians in or near
the roadways, and the obstruction of views. No person shall drive any vehicle
at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-404: MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION:
No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic except when the slow speed is
unavoidable. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-405: OBEDIENCE TO MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed
limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess
of the maximum nor slower than the minimum except as required by an authorized
officer or in obedience to posted official signs. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
SECTION:
15-501: Changing Lanes, Marking Lanes, Main Street
15-502: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway Required; Exceptions
15-503: When Overtaking On The Right Is Permitted
15-504: Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left
15-505: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left; Exception
15-506: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions
15-507: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
15-508: Following Too Closely
15-509: No-Passing Zones
15-510: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession Prohibited; Exceptions
15-511: Drivers In A Procession
15-512: Funeral Processions To Be Identified
15-513: Overtaking And Passing In School Zones
15-514: Overtaking And Passing School Bus
15-515: School Bus Requirements; Lights; Signs; Painting
15-516: Driving Of Vehicles On Sidewalk Prohibited; Exception
15-517: Limitations On Backing Vehicle
15-518: Limitation On Use Of Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
15-519: Required Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear
15-520: Special Speed Limitation On Motorcycles And Motor Scooters
15-521: Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited
15-522: Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Highways
15-523: Reckless Driving
15-524: Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping, Or Parking
15-525: Requirement Of Any Person Driving A Vehicle On A Public Way To Operate
Vehicle In A Careful And Prudent Manner
15-526: Driving While Under The Influence Of Drugs
15-527: Driving While Under The Influence Of Alcohol
15-528: Attention To Driving Required
15-529: Speed Contest Prohibited
15-530: Permits Required For Parades And Processions
15-531: Driving Through Safety Zone
15-532: Starting Parked Vehicle
15-533: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-534: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
15-535: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
15-536: Unlawful Riding
15-537: Railroad Trains Not To Block Streets
15-538: Private Service Drives
15-539: Truck Driving And Route Restrictions
15-540: Loads On Vehicles
15-541: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering Intersection
15-542: Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection
15-543: Vehicle Approaching A "Yield Right-Of-Way" Sign
15-544: Vehicle Entering Through Highway
15-545: Vehicles Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signal
15-546: Through Streets
15-547: Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
15-548: Stop Or Yield Sign Construction And Placement
15-549: Vehicle Entering Stop Intersection
15-550: Vehicle Entering Yield Intersection
15-551: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
15-552: Vehicles Entering Traffic From Parking
15-553: Emerging From The Alley, Driveway, Or Building
15-554: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
15-555: Jake Brakes
15-556: Prohibiting Texting While Driving
15-501: CHANGING LANES, MARKING LANES, MAIN STREET:
   A.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules consistent with this
subsection, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and has signaled for a
change of course.
   B.   Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic lanes, vehicles
shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as nearly as
practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow-moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   C.   Upon a roadway which has been divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   D.   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway. Drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   E.   Broadway, except where clearly marked for four (4) lanes at 12th Street
and north, is a two (2) lane street and traffic rules applicable to two (2)
lane streets apply. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-502: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven to the
right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all streets or highways
which are divided into two (2) roadways.
   C.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-301.
15-503: WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
      3.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-504: OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-505: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the street
or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   B.   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is obstructed;
or
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (1983 Code)
15-506: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-507: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS 1 :
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by
motion or resolution, may designate any road, street, alley, or highway, or any
separate roadway under their jurisdiction for one-way traffic and shall cause
appropriate signs giving notice thereof, to be erected.
   B.   Whenever the City Manager designates any street or alley or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, the City Manager shall have placed and
maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   C.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   D.   Upon roadways designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   E.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-308.
15-508: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY 1 :
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-310.
15-509: NO-PASSING ZONES:
   A.   The State Department of Transportation, as regards State and Federal
highways, and the City Manager as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and
passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no- passing zone as
set forth in subsection A of this Section, no driver shall at any time drive to
the left side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of
any pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its
length. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-510: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this Chapter. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
or police officers. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 15-102.
15-511: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-512: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle such identifying insignia as may
be determined and designated by the Police Department. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-513: OVERTAKING AND PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all days when schools
are in session.
   B.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple-lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-514: OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS 1 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants. The red loading visual
signals shall be activated by the driver of the school bus whenever, and only
whenever, such vehicle is stopped on the street or highway for the purpose of
receiving or discharging school children.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway with separate roadways
need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different
roadway or when upon a controlled-access highway and the school bus is stopped
in a loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
   C.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right of way when crossing
the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (Prior Code, Chapter 17,
as amended)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-705.
15-515: SCHOOL BUS REQUIREMENTS; LIGHTS; SIGNS; PAINTING 1 :
   A.   The provisions of Section
15-514 of this Chapter shall be applicable only if the school bus is painted
yellow and bears upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign
containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in
height which can be removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use as a
school bus.
   B.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the front and
two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-307.
15-516: DRIVING OF VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-517: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic. No
vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-518: LIMITATION ON USE OF MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street
or highway, except as provided in this Section:
      1.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a
double seating device with double footrests or a sidecar attachment providing a
separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      2.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   B.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the
City.
   C.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter shall hold on to
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   D.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor- driven cycle, or
motor bicycle, shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
   E.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles in
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized emergency
vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection.
   F.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any motorcycle,
motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the City between and during the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the next
day. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-519: REQUIRED MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT, HEADGEAR:
   A.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor scooters
shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment;
      2.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle;
      3.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application
of the service brake;
      4.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided;
      5.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      6.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection A6 shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead; and
      7.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
   B.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall operate or ride upon
any vehicle covered under this Section unless the person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for use
by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of lining,
padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver. While operating or riding on a vehicle covered hereunder, the chin
straps shall be fastened.
   C.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the vehicle. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-520: SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATION ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS 1 :
No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater
than the speed limit legally posted. In no event nor at any time may an
operator under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor
scooter, including a motor-driven bicycle, at a speed greater than thirty five
(35) miles per hour, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by State law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-805.
15-521: CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a roadway. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-522: ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled- access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-523: RECKLESS DRIVING 1 :
Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) including costs. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-901.
15-524: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING, OR PARKING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked,
or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a manner as
to endanger life, limb, person, or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-525: REQUIREMENT OF ANY PERSON DRIVING A VEHICLE ON A PUBLIC WAY TO OPERATE
VEHICLE IN A CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER:
Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-526: DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF DRUGS 1 :
   A.   No person shall drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any substance
included in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substance Act. The fact that any
person charged with a violation of this provision is or has been lawfully
entitled to use such controlled substance shall not constitute a defense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
   B.   Any person who violates this Section shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00), including costs. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-902.
15-527: DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating drugs or liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control
of any motor vehicle in the City.
   B.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his ability to operate
such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol is subject to a
fine as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code.
   C.   Upon the trial of any criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or
intoxicating liquor, or operating a motor vehicle while his ability is impaired
by the consumption of alcohol, evidence of the amount of alcohol in the
person's blood as shown by a chemical analysis of his blood or breath is
admissible. For the purpose of this Section:
      1.   Evidence that there was five-hundredths of one percent (5/100 of 1%)
or less by weight of alcohol in his blood is prima facie evidence that the
person was not under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      2.   Evidence that there was more than five-hundredths of one percent (5/
100 of 1%) by weight of alcohol in the person's blood is relevant evidence of
operating a motor vehicle while his ability to operate such motor vehicle is
impaired by the consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor; however, no
person shall be convicted while his ability to operate such vehicle is impaired
by consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor solely because there was more
than five-hundredths of one percent (5/100 of 1%) by weight of alcohol in the
person's blood in the absence of additional evidence that such person's driving
was affected by said consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public
health and safety was threatened or that said person had violated a State
statute or local ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle;
      3.   Evidence that there was ten-hundredths of one percent (10/100 of 1%)
or more by weight of alcohol in his blood shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating
liquor;
The percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of
alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of blood. The provisions of this
subsection do not limit the introduction of any other competent evidence
bearing on the question of whether the person was under the influence of
alcohol or intoxicating liquor. (1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 6-205, § 751 et seq.
15-528: ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED:
The operator of every vehicle while driving shall devote his full time and
attention to such driving. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-529: SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   No person shall for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
   C.   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest such assembly is unlawful assembly and any person who
participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-530: PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS 1 :
No funeral, procession, or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons
or fifty (50) or more vehicles except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this State, shall occupy, march, or proceed along
any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 15-102.
15-531: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-532: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-533: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS 1 :
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1105.
15-534: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-535: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-536: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-537: RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching. This Section
shall not apply in case of engine failure or train accidents within the City
limits. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-538: PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES:
No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-539: TRUCK DRIVING AND ROUTE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The City Council may prescribe routes through the City for the use of
trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are
not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the City. Appropriate
and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that drivers of such
vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so erected and in place,
the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed,
as provided above, while passing through the City, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the City and not merely through the City.
   B.   Heavy truck traffic is prohibited in the following streets:
      1.   8th Street from "C" Avenue west to Old Highway 62; and
      2.   On all streets and alleys in the Anderson Addition to the City.
   C.   "Heavy truck traffic", for the purpose of this Section is defined as
any vehicle which exceeds a total gross weight, including the vehicle and load,
of eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds. (Prior Code, Chapter 20; amd. Ord. 217,
7-17-1978; Ord. 233, 4-16-1979)
15-540: LOADS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders, or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
   C.   This Section shall apply to trucks loaded with livestock, poultry or
agricultural products only except baled agricultural products, provided that
any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent such livestock
or poultry from escaping therefrom. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-541: VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION 1 :
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection
from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right as
otherwise stated in this Chapter; however, the driver of vehicle on a street
which is not a State or Federal highway approaching an intersection with a
State or Federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   The right-of-way rule declared in subsection A of this Section is
modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this Chapter. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-401.
15-542: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION 1 :
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this Code, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-402.
15-543: VEHICLE APPROACHING A "YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY" SIGN 1 :
The driver of a vehicle approaching a "yield right-of-way" sign shall slow to a
reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding
the right of way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway which
have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-403.
15-544: VEHICLE ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY 1 :
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this Code at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-404.
15-545: VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL:
If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply: If each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. If each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right of way. If one vehicle is required to slow
and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have the
right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not entered the
intersection. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-546: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   The City Council may designate any street or part of a street a through
street.
   B.   Whenever the City Council designates and describes a through street,
the stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic-control signals.
   C.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the City Manager if deemed desirable. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-547: INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED:
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by
motion or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist
and to determine whether:
      1.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
      2.   Vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a different
street as provided in this Part, in which event he shall cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-548: STOP OR YIELD SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT:
Every stop or yield sign erected pursuant to this Chapter shall bear the word
"Stop" or "Yield" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height for a
stop sign and not less than seven inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every
stop or yield sign shall at night be rendered luminous by steady or flashing
internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign,
or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or
yield sign shall be located as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if there is no crosswalk,
then the sign shall be located at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-549: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
Except when directed by a police officer or traffic-control signal, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop sign,
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line before entering the intersection. If there is no marked stop line,
then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting road where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before
entering the intersection. A driver after having stopped shall yield the right
of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway
or road, or which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard;
but the driver having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-550: VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in observance to such
sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing condition or shall stop
if necessary and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed and drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and has
or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein. The provisions of this Section shall not release the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to constitute
immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety to stop
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
before entering the intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the driver shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (Prior Code ch. 20)
15-551: VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway. (Prior Code ch. 20)
15-552: VEHICLES ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING:
Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield
the right-of-way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear.
The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver
has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from
the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the
line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists. (Prior
Code ch. 20)
15-553: EMERGING FROM THE ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING 1 :
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway. (Prior Code ch. 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-704.
15-554: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (Prior Code ch. 20)
15-555: JAKE BRAKES:
   A.   No person shall activate or use compression release engine brakes or
"jake brakes" within the City limits at any time of day or night.
   B.   Any person violating this section shall be fined one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 404, 7-14-2008)
15-556: PROHIBITING TEXTING WHILE DRIVING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
    CELLULAR TELEPHONE: Means an analog or digital wireless telephone
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency
bandwidth reserved for cellular communications.
   COMPOSE, SEND OR READ: With respect to a text message means the manual
entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: Means an electronic device that permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means other than
the oral transfer of wire communication. This term does not include a device
that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor vehicle or a
voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is affixed to a
motor vehicle, or a hands-free device that allows the user to write, send or
read a text message without the use of either hand to activate, deactivate or
initiate a feature or function.
   TEXT MESSAGE: Includes a text-based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video, electronic mail, or use of social media browsing or
messaging capabilities.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle on any street or highway within the Prague City limits while using a
hand-held electronic communications device to manually compose, send or read an
electronic text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   C.   Violation: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection B of
this section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and court costs.
   D.   Emergency Situation: The provisions of subsection B of this section
shall not apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic
communication device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the
following regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance service;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency. (Ord. 457, 10-12-2015, eff. 11-1-2015)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
15-601: Authority To Install Traffic-Control Devices
15-602: Traffic-Control Devices; Uniform Requirements
15-603: Obedience To Official Traffic-Control Devices
15-604: When Official Traffic-Control Devices Required For Enforcement Purposes
15-605: Traffic-Control Signal Legend
15-606: Pedestrians; Signal Indicators; Regulations
15-607: Flashing Signals
15-608: Pedestrian-Activated School Crossing Signals
15-609: Unauthorized Traffic-Control Devices Prohibited
15-610: Defacement Of Traffic-Control Devices
15-611: Play Streets, Authority To Establish
15-612: Play Streets, Restriction On Use
15-613: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
15-614: Traffic Lanes
15-601: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES 1 :
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by motion or
resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic-control signs, signals,
and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this City to
make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed and
maintained such additional traffic-control signs, signals, and devices as he
may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this
City or under State law or to guide or warn traffic. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-201 et seq.
15-602: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices approved by the State Department of
Public Safety.
   B.   All signs, signals, and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and relative location
throughout the City. All traffic-control devices erected and not inconsistent
with the provisions of State law or this Chapter shall be official traffic-
control devices. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-603: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES 1 :
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
Part. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-201.
15-604: WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES:
No provision of this Chapter for which official traffic- control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-605: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND 1 :
   A.   The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have
the following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
      1.   Green Alone, "Go":
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right of way over such vehicular traffic; and
         b.   Pedestrian traffic, facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a "walk" signal
indicator is operating;
      2.   Steady Yellow Or Amber Alone, "Caution":
         a.   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute
a warning that the "red" or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
         b.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near
side crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so
near the limit line when the "caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot
be made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "red" signal flashes.
      3.   Red Alone, "Stop":
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or "go" is shown alone.
Except where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the
right traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the
intersection cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and
the turn shall be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic
proceeding on a green signal indication on the cross street; and
         b.   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the
roadway when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
"go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian "walk" signal.
      4.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic
lane may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated
by the arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
         b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until
the green or "go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
"walk" signal.
      5.   Green Arrows Alone: Whenever vehicular traffic movements are
controlled by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal
indication, vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by
the green arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-202.
15-606: PEDESTRIANS; SIGNAL INDICATORS; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk", "wait"
or "don't walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
      1.   "Walk": Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by
the drivers of all vehicles; and
      2.   "Wait" Or "Don't Walk": No pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the "walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or
safety zone while the "wait" signal is showing. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-607: FLASHING SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is illuminated, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   "Flashing Red": When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      2.   "Flashing Yellow": When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   This Section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-204.
15-608: PEDESTRIAN-ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   Whenever a pedestrian-activated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
      1.   "Flashing Yellow":
         a.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or pass such signal only with caution; and
         b.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
      2.   "Steady Yellow Alone":
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red of "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the
signal when the red or "stop" signal is exhibited; and
         b.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which
the signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
      3.   "Steady Red":
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing
until flashing yellow is shown alone; and
         b.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
      4.   "Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined":
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
         b.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal- controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-203.
15-609: UNAUTHORIZED TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
   B.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   This Section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be removed without
notice. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-206.
15-610: DEFACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES 1 :
   A.   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his possession any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal or
an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   B.   This Chapter shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      1.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      2.   Any officer, agent independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-207.
15-611: PLAY STREETS, AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council, shall have
authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to have
placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to
protect the same. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-612: PLAY STREETS, RESTRICTION ON USE:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as
a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area; and then any such driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-613: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council, may:
      1.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as he may deem necessary; and
      2.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-614: TRAFFIC LANES 1 :
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council, may
be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where
a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-309.
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY
SECTION:
15-701: Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
15-702: Application Of Standing Or Parking Regulations
15-703: Parking Time Limits May Be Established, Signs
15-704: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours
15-705: Brakes; Motor Not To Be Left Running
15-706: Signs Or Markings Indicating Angle Parking
15-707: Obedience To Angle Parking Signs Or Markings
15-708: Parking In Spaces Marked Off
15-709: Permits For Loading Or Unloading At An Angle To The Curb
15-710: Hazardous Or Congested Places; Stopping, Standing, Parking
15-711: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
15-712: Blocking Of Intersection Or Crosswalk Prohibited
15-713: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Roadway
15-714: Standing Or Parking On Left Side Of One-Way Streets
15-715: Parking Adjacent To Schools
15-716: Parking Prohibited At Intersections
15-717: Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
15-718: Entry On Private Property; Trespass; Evidence; Burden Of Proof
15-719: Truck Parking Prohibited
15-720: Double-Parking
15-721: Parking Prohibited For Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
15-722: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
15-723: Method Of Parking, Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
15-724: Negligent Parking
15-725: Right Of Way To Parallel Parking Space
15-726: Parking In Spaces Reserved For Physically Disabled Persons
15-701: ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this Chapter governing,
limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for such violation
shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-702: APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-703: PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED, SIGNS:
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by motion or
resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on designated
streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the streets.
When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in
violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless a sign is
erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-704: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
twenty four (24) hours. No person shall park a vehicle on any public parking
lot owned or controlled by the City for a period of time longer than seventy
two (72) hours; however, the City Manager may under such rules, regulations or
directions as the City Council may establish, grant special permission for a
person to park a vehicle on a public parking lot owned or controlled by the
City for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours. This Section
shall not affect parking limits established for shorter periods. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-705: BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-706: SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING 1 :
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council by motion
or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle
parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1004(c).
15-707: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS:
On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-708: PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-709: PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB:
   A.   The City Manager is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The City Manager may revoke such permits
at any time.
   B.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-710: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES; STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING:
   A.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to determine and regulate by
proper signs the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles when such stopping,
standing or parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   B.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in subsection A of this Section, no person shall violate such signs.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-711: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES 1 :
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except in emergencies
or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of
the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to allow or permit a vehicle to be parked
at the following locations in the City:
      1.   Along the curbs of Broadway Avenue between Seventh Street and
Twelfth Street for a period for more than two (2) hours between the hours of
eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M., Sundays
and legal holidays excepted;
      2.   On the north side of 14th Street from "A" Avenue east to the alley
between "A" Avenue and Barta Avenue at all hours; and
      3.   On the west side of "A" Avenue between 13th and 14th Streets at all
hours. (Prior Code, Chapter 20; amd. Ord. 205 12-6-1976; Ord. 208, 10-4-1977;
Ord. 232, 3-19-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1003.
15-712: BLOCKING OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK PROHIBITED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed. (1983 Code)
15-713: STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAY:
   A.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   B.   The City Council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-714: STANDING OR PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ONE-WAY STREETS:
The City Manager may have signs erected upon the left-hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the signs are in
place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-715: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   The City Manager may have signs erected indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-716: PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS:
The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be prohibited
fifteen feet (15') in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-717: PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-718: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS; EVIDENCE; BURDEN OF PROOF 1 :
   A.   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property owned
or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent except
where such private property is provided as public parking and the general use
of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   B.   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 15-1309 of this Part.
15-719: TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
park for a period exceeding three (3) continuous hours during any one day any
of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on any street
or alley in the City except as provided in subsection B of this Section:
      1.   Truck;
      2.   Bus;
      3.   Tractor;
      4.   Trailer;
      5.   Truck-trailer, semitrailer, or combination of any of the above; or
      6.   Any other commercial vehicle.
   B.   The vehicles listed in subsection A of this Section may be parked
entirely on private property so long as they are not in the area dedicated for
use as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the usage of the
streets by other vehicles and pedestrians. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-720: DOUBLE-PARKING:
   A.   No driver shall double-park or double-stop a vehicle under the
following conditions:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection except alley
intersections, or within ten feet (10') of an alley intersection;
      2.   Opposite a double-parked or double-stopped vehicle across the
street;
      3.   When such double-parking or double-stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      4.   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      5.   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      6.   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
(2') of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   B.   A driver may double-park or double-stop a vehicle only as authorized in
this Section. There must be a licensed driver in any vehicle while it is
double-parked or double-stopped.
   C.   A driver may double-stop for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out.
   D.   A driver may double-park for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out. No such vehicle
shall be double-parked longer than ten (10) minutes. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-721: PARKING PROHIBITED FOR TRUCKS TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
It is unlawful to park, store or otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle
which is used for the purpose of transporting or delivering flammable and
combustible liquids as defined by the fire prevention code of the American
Insurance Association and trucks or other vehicles which are used for the
transportation and delivery of liquefied petroleum gases in any area within the
City, except as may be otherwise provided by City ordinance or resolution.
However, the trucks and vehicles restricted in this Section may be temporarily
parked at locations otherwise zoned for the purpose of loading and unloading
flammable and combustible liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a period
not to exceed one and one-half (11/2) hours during any twenty four (24) hour
period. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-722: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
      1.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      2.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
      3.   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-723: METHOD OF PARKING, STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB 1 :
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or parked
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the right-hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the
left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be
parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the left-hand curb. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1004.
15-724: NEGLIGENT PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
      1.   In a careless or negligent manner;
      2.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
      3.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic
or use of the streets. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-725: RIGHT OF WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   B.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, is deemed to have the right of way to such parking space. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-726: PARKING IN SPACES RESERVED FOR PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in
any parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the
public is invited, or public property, that is designated and posted as a
reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons,
unless such is eligible for a detachable insignia or reflective insignia as a
physically disabled person under the provisions of section 15-112 or 149.3 of
title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes; and such insignias are displayed as required
by section 149.4 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of subsection A of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00), including costs, and shall be required to pay any and all reasonable
and necessary charges incurred by the landowner or other person in having any
motor vehicle removed from the property and stored. (Ord. 270, 8-8-1983)
CHAPTER 8
LOADING
SECTION:
15-801: Definitions
15-802: Curb Loading Zones, Designation
15-803: Loading Zones To Be Used Only For Designated Purpose
15-804: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Passenger Curb Loading Zone
15-805: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Freight Curb Loading Zone
15-806: Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands
15-807: Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
15-808: Stopping, Standing And Parking Of Buses And Taxis
15-801: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A. A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name
of the owner or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly
used during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise
or freight and which bears a regular State commercial license tag; and
B. A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during normal
business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight, and
which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the City at the rear of
the vehicle attached to the State license plate together with an identically
numbered decal, issued vehicle.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-802: CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION:
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by
motion or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating
the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this Section are
applicable.
   B.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this Section.
   C.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the City an amount of money
estimated by the City Council to be adequate to reimburse the City for all
costs of establishing and signing the same. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-803: LOADING ZONES TO BE USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE:
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-804: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone
for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-805: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. Vehicles
using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this Chapter.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-806: DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS:
The City Manager may establish loading zones for common carriers, including,
but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in such places
and in such number as he shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-807: USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop,
other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-808: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXIS:
   A.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   B.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided herein,
except in case of an emergency.
   C.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   D.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon an
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 9
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
15-901: Turning Markers Or Indicators
15-902: Designation Of Restricted Turns
15-903: Obedience To No-Turn Signs
15-904: U-Turns
15-905: Position And Method Of Turning
15-906: Turning Movements And Required Signals
15-907: Means Of Giving Turn Signals
15-908: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
15-909: Turns Into Or From Alleys
15-901: TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS:
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the Council by
motion or resolution, is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs within
or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so indicated, may
conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-902: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS:
The City Manager is hereby authorized to determine those street intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall
have proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this Section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when turns are
permitted. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-903: OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn
is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of any
such sign. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-904: U-TURNS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in the City at the following locations:
      1.   At intersections controlled by traffic-control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the latter's
direction;
      3.   At any other location where an official "no U-turn" has been placed
and is maintained.
   B.   A U-turn may be made only when it can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-turn except in the
following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right of way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn is completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
   C.   No person shall be allowed to make any U-turn or turn across the center
dividing line to park on the opposite side of both Highway 99 and Highway 62
between 4th Street and 12th Street on Broadway and between A Avenue and F
Avenue on Main Street. However, proper U-turns and turning into residences
shall be allowed across the center line of the above designated streets at
proper intersections and proper private driveways. (Prior Code, Chapter 20;
amd. Ord. 289, 3-14-1988; Ord. 290, 9-12-1988)
15-905: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING 1 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of
a right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway;
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the center
line where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
center of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall
be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection;
      3.   Left Turns, On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearby as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-601.
15-906: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in Section
15-905 of this Chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, slow or stop when
required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred
feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-604.
15-907: MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by
means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical device of a
type, approved by the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety, except as provided
in subsection B of this Section.
   B.   A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required signal given by,
signal lamps or devices when:
      1.   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
      2.   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be visible
both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      3.   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the steering
post. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-908: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
   A.   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      1.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally;
      2.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward; and
      3.   Stop Or Decrease Speed: Hand and arm extended downward with palm to
the rear. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-909: TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS:
   A.   No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding into or proceeding out of
an alley except when necessary to enter a one-way street, and no vehicle shall
cross any street or highway when proceeding into or proceeding out of any alley
except as provided in subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an alley if a traffic
survey conducted by the Traffic Engineer shows that such turn may be made
safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   C.   The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to bus
terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
15-1001: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic-Control Signals
15-1002: Pedestrians' Right Of Way At Crosswalks
15-1003: Pedestrians To Use Right Half Of Crosswalk
15-1004: Crossing At Right Angles
15-1005: When Pedestrians Shall Yield
15-1006: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
15-1007: Pedestrians Prohibited From Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations
From Vehicle Occupants
15-1008: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
15-1009: Crossing Prohibited
15-1001: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS 1 :
Pedestrians are subject to traffic-control signals as provided for in this
Code, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this Chapter. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 11-501–11-507.
15-1002: PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
      1.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
      2.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge of
the roadway as to be in danger.
The provisions of this subsection are not applicable under conditions where
pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety or
walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1003: PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1004: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a
crosswalk. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1005: WHEN PEDESTRIANS SHALL YIELD:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The provisions of this Section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1006: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or
its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1007: PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED FROM SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS
FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street;
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1008: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Not withstanding the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1009: CROSSING PROHIBITED:
Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15-1101: Application Of Bicycle Regulations
15-1102: Application Of Traffic Laws To Bicycles
15-1103: Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
15-1104: Riding On Bicycles
15-1105: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
15-1106: Speed Of Bicycle
15-1107: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
15-1108: Carrying Articles
15-1109: Parking
15-1110: Riding On Sidewalks
15-1111: Lamps And Equipment On Bicycles
15-1101: APPLICATION OF BICYCLE REGULATIONS 1 :
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon
any street or upon any public way; or upon any path set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this Chapter. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1201 et seq.
15-1102: APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this State and the traffic provisions of this Code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this Chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1103: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1104: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1105: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   C.   If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-1106: SPEED OF BICYCLE:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1107: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways. (Prior Code, Chapter
20)
15-1108: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars. (Prior
Code, Chapter 20)
15-1109: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1110: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   B.   The City Manager is authorized to have erected signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person; and when such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1111: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred
feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100').
   C.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use, any
siren or whistle.
   D.   Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 12
ABANDONED, WRECKED AUTOS
SECTION:
15-1201: Abandoned, Wrecked Autos Prohibited
15-1202: Notice To The Owner Or Occupant Of The Premises
15-1203: Public Hearing
15-1204: No Junked Vehicle To Be Reconstructed Or Made Operable
15-1205: Notice To Transportation Department
15-1206: Administration And Supervision
15-1207: Disposal Of Abandoned Vehicles
15-1208: Orders From Municipal Court
15-1209: Immediate Removal Of Vehicle Obstructing Traffic
15-1201: ABANDONED, WRECKED AUTOS PROHIBITED 1 :
No person in charge or control of any property within the City limits whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or unlicensed vehicle to remain on
such property longer than seven (7) days. No person shall leave any such
vehicle on any property within the City for longer time than seven (7) days.
This Section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building,
a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, or a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the City. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 954A.
15-1202: NOTICE TO THE OWNER OR OCCUPANT OF THE PREMISES:
Prior to removal of an abandoned vehicle by the City, notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant of the premises whereupon such nuisance exists stating
the nature of the public nuisance giving the owner or occupant ten (10) days in
which to remove or abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be mailed, by
certified or registered mail with a five (5) day return requested, to the owner
or occupant. If the notice is returned undelivered by a U.S. Postal Service
official, or unsigned by the owners or occupant, action to abate the nuisance
shall be continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date of such
return. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1203: PUBLIC HEARING:
Any owner or occupant of the premises on which the abandoned motor vehicle is
located, after receiving notice to abate in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter may, within ten (10) days after service of notice to abate the
public nuisance, request a public hearing prior to the removal of the abandoned
vehicle or part thereof declared to be a public nuisance. Such hearing shall be
heard before the code enforcement officer. Any order requiring the removal of a
vehicle or part thereof shall include a description of the vehicle and the
correct identification number and license number of the vehicle if available at
the site. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1204: NO JUNKED VEHICLE TO BE RECONSTRUCTED OR MADE OPERABLE:
No vehicle removed under the provision of this Chapter shall be reconstructed
or made operable. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1205: NOTICE TO TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT:
Notice shall be given by the Chief of Police to the State Department of
Transportation within five (5) days of the date of removal identifying the
abandoned vehicle or part thereof. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1206: ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION:
Administration and supervision of the removal of vehicles or part thereof as
provided in this Chapter shall be by the Chief of Police of the City except
that the removal of the abandoned vehicle or part thereof declared to be a
nuisance may be by any other person duly authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1207: DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
The Chief of Police shall dispose of junked vehicles or parts thereof by
removal to a scrapyard or demolished as scrap or salvage, but subject to the
provision of Section
15-1204 of this Chapter, the Chief of Police may enter upon private property
for the purposes specified in this Chapter relative to removal of abandoned
vehicles to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain information as to the
identity of vehicles, and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts
thereof declared to be a nuisance, pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1208: ORDERS FROM MUNICIPAL COURT:
The Judge of the Municipal Court shall have authority to issue all orders
necessary to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
15-1209: IMMEDIATE REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall affect the provisions permitting
immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an
obstruction to traffic. (Ord. 304, 6-15-1993)
CHAPTER 13
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-1301: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
15-1302: Place Of Impoundment
15-1303: Duration Of Impoundment
15-1304: Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
15-1305: Disabled Vehicles
15-1306: Vehicles On Bridge
15-1307: Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
15-1308: Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
15-1309: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
15-1310: Vehicles Parked Overtime
15-1311: Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
15-1312: Vehicles Parked In Intersection
15-1313: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
15-1314: Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
15-1315: Impound Fee
15-1301: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS 1 :
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (Prior code ch. 20)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 955, 954A.
15-1302: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the city
manager, and to no other place. (1983 Code)
15-1303: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   C.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (Prior code ch. 20)
15-1304: POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter. (Prior code ch. 20)
15-1305: DISABLED VEHICLES:
   A.   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior code ch. 20)
15-1306: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1307: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leaves
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1308: VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1309: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of Section
15-718 of this Part may be impounded when the required complaint has been
properly made and filed as provided in this Section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of Section
15-718 of this Part occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall
sign a complaint against the person parking the vehicle on the owner's or legal
occupant's property or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is
unknown, then the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the
vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the complaining
party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is
parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of Section
15-718 of this Part have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the
vehicle to be impounded from the property and placed in storage. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-1310: VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of Section
15-704 of this Part, regarding more than twenty four (24) hours, shall be
impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1311: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1312: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (Prior Code,
Chapter 20)
15-1313: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle
may be impounded. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1314: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this Part. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1315: IMPOUND FEE:
   A.   Any vehicle impounded under the authority granted by this code or the
statutes of the state of Oklahoma shall be stored and held safely until written
order for its release, signed by an authorized officer of the city, has been
issued. Motor vehicles impounded for the following reasons shall require that
such order of release be conditioned on the payment of an impound fee in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) by the person to whom the release is
issued:
      1.   Where the motor vehicle has an evidentiary value, has directly or
indirectly been involved in the commission of a crime, has been used to
transport any person who has committed any offense involving the use of a
firearm, or is directly or indirectly associated with a drive by shooting;
      2.   When a police officer effects the arrest and removal of the owner or
operator of a vehicle from the vehicle;
      3.   When the vehicle bears a license plate that has expired for a period
in excess of ninety (90) days, bears a license plate that has been altered or
tampered with or bears a temporary tag issued more than thirty (30) days prior
to the impoundment, or bears no license plate that would be in conformance with
the Oklahoma vehicle license act 1 ; or
      4.   When the person operating the vehicle on public streets or public
property is driving under a suspended or revoked driver's license or is
operating a vehicle with an invalid driver's license or no driver's license.
   B.   This impound fee shall be independent of any fines, costs or fees that
may be assessed from citations issued to any person for violation of traffic
laws or other ordinance violations involving the impounded vehicle and in
addition to any fees owed to the towing service for the impoundment and
storage. The chief of police is hereby authorized to adopt rules and
regulations consistent with this chapter to implement this section. (Ord. 445,
2-10-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1101 et seq.
CHAPTER 14
PENALTIES
SECTION:
15-1401: Obedience To Traffic Code
15-1402: Penalties
15-1401: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   It is an offense against the City for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this Part.
   B.   It is an offense against the City for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this Part.
   C.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this Part. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
15-1402: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this Part containing the
traffic laws of the City shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined or punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Chapter 20)
CHAPTER 15
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-1501: Operation Permitted
15-1502: Insurance; Permit
15-1503: Hours Of Operation
15-1504: State And County Roads
15-1505: Permit; Information
15-1506: Kolache Festival
15-1507: Penalty
15-1501: OPERATION PERMITTED:
Any person sixteen (16) years of age or older and subject to his or her
compliance with Sections
15-1502,
15-1503 and
15-1504 of this Chapter shall be entitled to operate an all-terrain vehicle (4-
wheeler only) or golf cart on the City streets. (Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1502: INSURANCE; PERMIT:
   A.   Prior to said operation said person shall provide to the City Clerk or
any other person designated by the City Manager, proof of liability insurance
in an amount no less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) insuring the
general public against personal and/or property damage as a result of the
action by said person on said all-terrain vehicle (4-wheeler only) or golf
cart. Upon proof the vehicle is covered by said insurance coverage and upon
payment of a permit fee in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) said person shall
be issued a permit to operate:
      1.   An all-terrain vehicle (4-wheeler only) on City streets to proceed
directly to or from the Prague Municipal Lake.
      2.   A golf cart on City streets to proceed directly to or from the
Prague Municipal Golf Course. (Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1503: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Operation of the all-terrain vehicle (4-wheeler only) or golf cart shall be
during the hours of daylight only. (Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1504: STATE AND COUNTY ROADS:
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as granting, by the City, authority
to any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle (4-wheeler only) or golf cart
on a State highway or County maintained roadway. (Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1505: PERMIT; INFORMATION:
The permit described in Section
15-1502 of this Chapter shall contain thereon the make, model and serial number
of the vehicle and shall permit the vehicle to be operated by any insured
operator sixteen (16) years of age or older as provided herein. Further, said
permit shall cover a period from January 1 of the calendar year to December 31
of that calendar year. For the year 2000, the period shall be from July 1 until
December 31. It shall be unlawful to operate these vehicles without a permit.
(Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1506: KOLACHE FESTIVAL:
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting either all-terrain
vehicles (4-wheeler only) or golf carts from participating in the Kolache
Festival parade or activities, provided the other City ordinances are complied
with. (Ord. 357, 6-21-2000)
15-1507: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall result in a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) plus any and all appropriate court costs. (Ord. 357, 6-21-
2000)
PART 16
TRANSPORTATION
Railroads   1
Taxicabs   2
CHAPTER 1
RAILROADS
SECTION:
16-101: Railroads To Improve Streets And Alleys
16-102: Sidewalks To Be Constructed By Railroads
16-103: Climbing On Trains
16-101: RAILROADS TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS:
When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in a
general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway
company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet (2') on either
side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or
has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the Council by
motion or resolution may approve. In case any railway company shall occupy an
alley with its track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and
grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is
to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material
as the Council by motion or resolution may approve. When the tracks of any
railroad company cross any street that is being or has been paved, the company
shall pave as much of the street as is occupied by its track or tracks and two
feet (2') on each side, using the same material as is to be, or has been, used
on the street, or such other satisfactory material as the Council by motion or
resolution may approve. When more than one track crosses a street within a
distance of one hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail,
the railroad company shall grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area
between its tracks, and surface or pave it with the same material which the
City is to use or has used, on the street. Railroad companies shall keep all
such improvements made by them in a good state of repair at all times. (Prior
Code, Sec. 21-1)
16-102: SIDEWALKS TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS:
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of way, using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (Prior Code, Sec.
21-2)
16-103: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner attach
himself to, any railway train, locomotive, or railway car, while such is in
motion within the City, unless such person is acting in line of duty, or to
board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight, or other car,
except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of the
train or car or in line of duty. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-3)
CHAPTER 2
TAXICABS
SECTION:
16-201: Taxicab Defined
16-202: License Required
16-203: License Fee
16-204: Inspection
16-205: Liability Insurance
16-206: Name Of Owner
16-207: Application For License
16-208: Card To Be Issued
16-209: Card To Be Visible
16-210: Taxi Stands
16-211: Chauffeur's License Required
16-212: Revocation Of License
16-213: License Fee To Be In Lieu Of Occupation Tax
16-214: Regular Place Of Business, Telephone
16-215: Penalty
16-201: TAXICAB DEFINED 1 :
For the purpose of this Chapter, the term "taxicab" means any vehicle carrying
passengers for hire. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-6)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 22-106, 11-118; 47 OS § 1-174.
16-202: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall within the City operate a taxicab in
intra-City business without first having obtained from the City Manager a
license therefor, and without having complied with all other provisions of this
Chapter. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-7)
16-203: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such license shall be determined by motion or resolution of the
City Council. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-8)
16-204: INSPECTION:
No vehicle shall be licensed as a taxicab until it has been thoroughly
inspected by the Chief of Police or such other official as the City Manager may
direct, and found to be in a safe, satisfactory, and sanitary condition for the
transportation of passengers. All such licensed cabs shall thereafter be
inspected in the same manner quarterly between January 1 and January 5, April 1
and April 5, July 1 and July 5, and October 1 and October 5 of each year. If
any vehicle licensed as a taxicab is involved in a collision or accident,
notice thereof shall be given to the City Manager or to such other official as
the City Council may direct, and an inspection shall be made of the cab before
it can be again used in service. The report of all such examinations shall be
filed with the City Manager. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-9)
16-205: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Upon an application being granted, the applicant shall, before the license is
issued, take out liability insurance, in a reliable company to be approved by
the City Manager, in a sum not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
each taxicab licensed. The applicant must also file competent evidence with the
City Manager that the policy covers the period for which a license is to be
granted. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-10)
16-206: NAME OF OWNER:
Every taxicab licensed under this Chapter shall have the name of the owner
thereof plainly painted in a conspicuous place on the taxicab in letters at
least one and one-half inches (11/2") in height. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-11)
16-207: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license for a taxicab shall make
written application therefor to the City Manager upon blanks furnished by the
City Manager. The application shall contain the full name and address of the
owner, the make, model, and year of manufacture of the car, the engine and
factory number of the same. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-12)
16-208: CARD TO BE ISSUED:
Upon a license being granted there shall be delivered to the licensee a card of
such size and form as may be determined by the City Manager. Such a card shall
contain the official City license number of the taxicab and shall be signed by
the City Manager. Licenses shall not be transferrable, with the exception that
a license may be transferred from one car to another of the same ownership,
with the approval of the City Manager. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-13)
16-209: CARD TO BE VISIBLE:
The license card above referred to shall be affixed in a place in the taxicab
so that same is visible to any passenger. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-14)
16-210: TAXI STANDS:
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a taxicab license shall be entitled
to have set off two (2) parking stands or spaces where the taxicabs may stand
while waiting calls or passengers. Such parking spaces shall be assigned by the
City Manager, subject, however, to the person, firm or corporation first
obtaining written permission from the primary tenant of the land immediately
adjacent to the space so desired. The permission so obtained shall be renewed
and filed with the City Manager at the time of renewal of any taxicab license.
(Prior Code, Sec. 21-15)
16-211: CHAUFFEUR'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall drive or operate a taxicab unless the person first obtains a
chauffeur's license from the State. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-16)
16-212: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council, after opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke any
taxicab license whenever a violation of any provision of this Chapter is shown.
(Prior Code, Sec. 21-17)
16-213: LICENSE FEE TO BE IN LIEU OF OCCUPATION TAX:
The license fee herein provided for shall be in lieu of occupation license
taxes heretofore required by ordinance. Occupation tax licenses heretofore paid
for the current year shall be credited on license fee herein provided for.
(Prior Code, Sec. 21-18)
16-214: REGULAR PLACE OF BUSINESS, TELEPHONE:
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a taxicab license as herein provided
for and doing intra-City business within the City shall be required to have a
regular place of business and to maintain a telephone at the place of business.
(Prior Code, Sec. 21-19)
16-215: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this Chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined as provided in
Section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code, Sec. 21-20)
PART 17
UTILITIES
Utility Services In General   1
Water Department And Services   2
Sewer System And Services   3
Refuse Collection   4
Landfill Regulations   5
Electric Service   6
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SERVICES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
17-101: Utility Fees And Billings In General
17-102: Failure To Pay Utility Bills; Penalty And Disconnection Of Service
17-103: Utility Taps And Connections; Fees; Utility Deposits
17-104: Other Utility Fees Or Charges
17-105: City Personnel May Inspect Private Premises
17-101: UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL:
All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the City's
sanitary sewer system, the City's water facility system, or the operation of
the City's collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in
accordance with applicable rates set by the City Council. All fees and charges
owing for any of these utility services shall be billed on one monthly bill
submitted to the customer each month. The utility bills submitted under the
terms of this Section are payable on or before the past due date which is
printed on the bill. (1983 Code)
17-102: FAILURE TO PAY UTILITY BILLS; PENALTY AND DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill submitted by the
City for any utility services pursuant to Section
17-101 of this Chapter by the past due date which is printed on the bill, the
following actions and penalties may result: (1983 Code)
   A.   Due Date And Second Notice Mailing: Utility bills are due by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the fifteenth of each month. Any account not paid by the
fifteenth will have a ten percent (10%) penalty assessed and those customers
will receive a second notice in the mail. Second notices will be mailed to all
customers with outstanding balances regardless of deferred payment
arrangements.
   B.   Deferred Payment Agreements:
      1.   Customers will be allowed three (3) deferred payment arrangements in
a calendar year. However, the deferral must be made prior to disconnect day.
      2.   No customer will be allowed to sign an agreement if their
outstanding balance is more than four hundred dollars ($400.00), without prior
approval from the City Clerk or City Manager.
      3.   Any customer not honoring their deferred payment arrangement will be
disconnected immediately without notice. (Res. 97-04, 4-24-1997)
   C.   Disconnect Procedures:
      1.   The authorized agents of the City may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after mailing or posting written notice
to the customer of the intent of the City to disconnect or discontinue any or
all of the utility services. (1983 Code)
      2.   Disconnect procedures begin at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the
twenty fifth of every month unless the twenty fifth falls on a weekend, in
which case it will be eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the following Monday.
      3.   As stated above, no deferred payment arrangements will be accepted
on disconnect day.
      4.   A fifteen dollar ($15.00) service charge will be assessed to all
customers appearing on the disconnect list regardless of if services have
actually been disconnected at time of payment of past due bill. If a customer
wishes to have service reconnected after office hours, an extra five dollar
($5.00) service charge, in addition to the above mentioned fifteen dollar
($15.00) service charge will be assessed and due before services are
reconnected. (Res. 97-04, 4-24-1997)
   D.   Reconnection: If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected
pursuant to this Section, the City, or its agents, shall not reconnect or
reestablish the service until the full amount of any outstanding utility
service bill is paid, plus the penalty provided in this Section, plus any
applicable charges or expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
(1983 Code)
   E.   Returned Checks: A fifteen dollar ($15.00) service charge will be
assessed for each returned check received by the City. Any customer having a
returned check will have twenty four (24) hours to pay for the check plus the
service charge with cash or a money order before services are disconnected. Any
customer who has had two (2) or more checks returned to the City will be put on
a cash or money order only basis. (Res. 97-04, 4-24-1997)
17-103: UTILITY TAPS AND CONNECTIONS; FEES; UTILITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   The City shall approve any request for a water tap and connection, a
sewer tap on an existing line or a sewer tap on a new line. Prior to granting
this approval, the customer shall have paid the connection or tap charge as
applicable and set by ordinance or resolution of the Council. The deposit shall
serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for utility service and other
amounts owed to the City in connection with the utility service. It shall be
held in trust by the City. When a customer's utility service is disconnected,
the deposit or any part of such amount deposited which remains after all such
charges and amounts due the City have been satisfied, shall be returned to the
customer.
   B.   A fee for reconnection of utility service where the service has been
turned off or a meter has been disconnected by the City for any reason shall be
set by the City Council. For any reconnection of utility service the charge
shall be set by the City Council. (1983 Code)
17-104: OTHER UTILITY FEES OR CHARGES:
The City Council from time to time by ordinance or resolution has the power to
establish rates and charges governing all aspects of the City utility services,
including monthly service fees, connection fees and charges, and deposits.
(1983 Code)
17-105: CITY PERSONNEL MAY INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES:
City personnel in the service of the City's utility systems may enter any
private premises served by the City water or other utility systems at any
reasonable time, and inspect the water pipes and fixtures on the premises.
(Prior Code, Sec. 18-26)
CHAPTER 2
WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
17-201: Water System As Public Utility
17-202: Water Rates
17-203: Application For Water Service
17-204: One Premises To A Tap, Subsidiary Connection And Cross-Connection
Prohibited
17-205: Turning On Water
17-206: Water May Be Cut Off
17-207: Water To Be Turned Back On Only By City Authority
17-208: Customers To Keep Service Pipes In Good Repair, Not To Waste Water
17-209: Water Shortages, Declaration Of Emergency
17-210: Restriction On Water Use In Emergency
17-211: Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency
17-212: Grievances With Water Restrictions
17-213: Penalties
17-201: WATER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY:
The water system of the City is hereby declared to be a public utility and a
proper source of City revenues and expenditures for the upkeep and maintenance
of the water system. (Prior Code, Sec. 18-10)
17-202: WATER RATES:
The City Council shall from time to time by ordinance or resolution set or
amend the fees and charges for water use by customers of the City's water
system. A copy of the current fees or charges shall be kept on file in the City
Clerk's office. (Prior Code, Secs. 18-16, 18-17)
17-203: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
Any person desiring to secure water from the City water system, shall make an
application therefor to the City Clerk on an application form to be provided by
the City Clerk. The applicant shall give such reasonable information as the
City Clerk may request. He shall state in the application that he will abide by
all ordinances, rules, and regulations governing the water system of the City.
(Prior Code, Sec. 18-11)
17-204: ONE PREMISES TO A TAP, SUBSIDIARY CONNECTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION
PROHIBITED:
Not more than one premises may be connected to any one tap. No customer shall
make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of another's premises with
his water service. A cross-connection with another water supply shall not be
permitted. (Prior Code, Sec. 18-14)
17-205: TURNING ON WATER:
It is unlawful for any person to turn the water on to any premises from the
Municipal water system, except by permission of the Superintendent. Water shall
not be turned on until the plumbing has been installed and is in operation as
provided by ordinance and until any and all deposits and charges have been
paid. The Superintendent will see that the water is turned on when all
requirements for service have been complied with. (Prior Code, Sec. 18-21)
17-206: WATER MAY BE CUT OFF:
   A.   Water may be cut off and service discontinued for any user of water
from the Municipal water system for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the water system,
or violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing;
      2.   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water, or the disposal of liquid wastes, which jeopardizes
the public health or safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the
rights of others; or
      3.   Failure to pay a water bill or other proper charge in connection
with the water system by the time when the bill becomes delinquent. (Prior
Code, Sec. 18-19)
17-207: WATER TO BE TURNED BACK ON ONLY BY CITY AUTHORITY:
When the water of any customer has been turned off by City personnel, it shall
not again be turned on except by permission of the City. (Prior Code, Sec. 18-
21)
17-208: CUSTOMERS TO KEEP SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR, NOT TO WASTE WATER:
All customers using Municipal water shall keep their service pipes, stopcocks,
and other water apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not
unnecessarily waste water. (Prior Code, Sec. 18-22)
17-209: WATER SHORTAGES, DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the City's water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that the
City's water system is unable or will within sixty (60) days become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection. (1983 Code)
17-210: RESTRICTION ON WATER USE IN EMERGENCY:
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists the Mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting use of water from the City system. The order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      2.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The order
may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
   B.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
Mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board, by resolution approved by a majority of
all its members, votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date. (1983 Code)
17-211: PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   The proclamation required by the preceding Section shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four (24)
hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the
proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the City. The emergency shall be
in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
Section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   B.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
A of this Section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with subsection A of this Section within twenty four (24) hours of the first
notice. (1983 Code)
17-212: GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS:
Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor shall have the
right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the City
Council or to any emergency session called to discuss the water emergency. The
Board may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in part, from compliance with
the proclamation order upon a showing that compliance creates an immediate
threat to the person's health or safety. The ruling of the Council by a
majority vote of all its members shall be final and binding as to the
continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the action of
the Mayor is modified or revoked by action of the Council all water users shall
be bound by the proclamation. (1983 Code)
17-213: PENALTIES:
Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits others
under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the Mayor's proclamation or action of the Board shall be
punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
SECTION:
17-301: Declaration Of Public Utility
17-302: Tapping, Connection Charges
17-303: Definitions
17-304: Use Of Public Sewers Required
17-305: Unlawful Discharges
17-306: Privies, Septic Tanks, Declared Unlawful
17-307: Sanitary Facilities Within Two Hundred Fifty Feet Of Sewer
17-308: Private Sewage Disposal
17-309: Permit Required Before Commencing Construction
17-310: Permit Not Effective Until Inspection And Requirements Are Met
17-311: Oklahoma State Department Of Health
17-312: Abandoning Private Septic Tanks Upon Connection
17-313: Operation Of Private Sewage Facilities
17-314: Additional Requirements May Be Imposed
17-315: Filling Private Systems
17-316: Unauthorized Connectors; Permit Required
17-317: Classes Of Sewer Permits
17-318: Costs Borne By Owner
17-319: Separate And Independent Sewers Required; Exception
17-320: Use Of Old Building Sewers
17-321: Construction Shall Conform To Codes
17-322: Sewer Elevation
17-323: Drain Connections Not To Be Made To Sewer
17-324: Sewer Connection To Meet Specifications
17-325: Inspector To Be Informed When Sewer Is Ready For Inspection
17-326: Sewer Excavation To Be Guarded
17-327: Water Drainage Not To Be Discharged Into Sanitary Sewer
17-328: Storm Water And Unpolluted Drainage To Be Discharged Into Proper Drain
17-329: User Charges
17-330: Classification Of Industrial Users
17-331: Monitoring Of Industrial Users
17-332: Permits For Industrial Users
17-333: Exceptions And Appeals
17-334: Collections
17-335: Disposition Of Funds
17-336: Discharge Of Substances, Materials, Water Or Waste To Sanitary Sewer
Prohibited
17-337: Limitation On Discharge Of Substances, Materials, Waters, Or Wastes To
The Sanitary Sewer
17-338: City Manager May Require Special Handling Of Waste
17-339: City Manager May Require Grease, Oil Interceptors
17-340: Special Equipment To Be Maintained By Owner
17-341: City Manager May Require Manhole
17-342: Measurements, Tests And Analyses Of Wastes To Meet Certain Standards
17-343: City May Accept Certain Waste By Agreement
17-344: Protection From Damage
17-345: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
17-346: Penalties
17-301: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY:
The sanitary sewerage system of the City is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system and for other purposes. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-302: TAPPING, CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   The charge for the tapping of and tying onto the sanitary sewer system
in the City and all that portion of the City hereinafter brought within the
corporate limits of the City by appropriate ordinance or resolution adopted
thereafter, shall be the sum of the costs of all labor and material.
   B.   The charges made by this Section shall be paid to the Clerk of the City
prior to the installation of such equipment and/or service. (Ord. 344, 11-8-
1999)
17-303: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain terms and words are to be used and
interpreted as defined hereinafter:
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager or his authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
CUSTOMER: The owner of the property served by a water connection, or the
tenant, lessee, renter, establishment, institution, or occupant of such
property, or the person in or against whose name the water connection for such
property is listed on the books and records of the City and who is responsible
to the City for the payment of bills incurred for water furnished to the
property, and for use by such property of the sanitary sewerage system of the
City, either or both.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: The liquid wastes:
A. From the noncommercial preparation, cooking and handling of food; or
B. Containing human excrement and similar matter from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE: The liquid waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business including cooling water that is discharged to
the sanitary sewerage system.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works
identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual", 1972 Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
A. Division A, agriculture, forestry and fishing;
B. Division B, mining;
C. Division D, manufacturing;
D. Division E, transportation, communication, electric, gas and sanitary
services; and
E. Division I, services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
MAY: "May" is permissive.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE: Sewage discharged by a user into the sanitary sewers
and in which the average concentrations of total suspended solids (SS) is not
more than three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) and biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) is not more than three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
PERSON: An individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PLUMBING INSPECTOR: A person designated by the City Manager to inspect work and
compliance with ordinances and other laws governing the installation and
operation of sewer, water and gas plumbing.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWAGE: The "domestic wastewater" as defined in this Section.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM: Includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines, main lines,
submain lines, lateral lines, lift stations and sewage treatment plants, and
all sewer lines connected to the City's sewer lines or treatment plants,
whether owned by the City or not.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residents, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present and includes the domestic
wastewater and industrial sewage in any combination.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER SERVICE RATE: The price charged per unit (mg/l, 1,000 gallons, pounds) of
waste discharged into the sanitary sewerage system of the City.
SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Read "Storm Sewer"): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
SYSTEM: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
USER: A "customer", as above defined, whose property also discharges sewage
into the sanitary sewerage system of the City in any quantity.
USER CHARGE: The monthly charge fixed for the user based upon the volume and
strength of sewage determined to be discharged by the user into the sanitary
sewerage system of the City.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-304: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in
any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the City or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or other objectionable waste. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-305: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES:
It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the City any sewage or other polluted waters
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-306: PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-307: SANITARY FACILITIES WITHIN TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET OF SEWER:
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the City is hereby required at
his expense to install suitable toilet facilities thereon, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the property line. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-308: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provision of Section
17-307 of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
257, 12-14-1981)
17-309: PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE COMMENCING CONSTRUCTION:
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the County Health
Department. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the Health Department which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the Health
Department. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-310: PERMIT NOT EFFECTIVE UNTIL INSPECTION AND REQUIREMENTS ARE MET:
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County Health
Department. Representatives shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-311: OKLAHOMA STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH:
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-312: ABANDONING PRIVATE SEPTIC TANKS UPON CONNECTION:
At such time as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private disposal system, as provided in Section
17-307 of this Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-313: OPERATION OF PRIVATE SEWAGE FACILITIES:
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the City. (Ord. 257, 12-14-
1981)
17-314: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS MAY BE IMPOSED:
No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer. (Ord. 257,
12-14-1981)
17-315: FILLING PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to
the sewer and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and
filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-316: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTORS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Plumbing Inspector. (Ord. 257, 12-14-
1981)
17-317: CLASSES OF SEWER PERMITS:
   A.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      1.   For residential and commercial service; and
      2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   B.   In either case the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the City. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee of five dollars ($5.00) for a residential, commercial or industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the City at the time the application is
filed. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-318: COSTS BORNE BY OWNER:
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-319: SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear buildings and the whole
considered as one building sewer. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-320: USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the Plumbing Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-321: CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM TO CODES:
The design, size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and public sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of
the pipe, jointing, testing, and back-filling the trench shall all conform to
the Oklahoma State Department of Health standards and to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-322: SEWER ELEVATION:
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-323: DRAIN CONNECTIONS NOT TO BE MADE TO SEWER:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-324: SEWER CONNECTION TO MEET SPECIFICATIONS:
The design, construction, and connection of the building sewer to the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of
Health standards and to the building and plumbing codes or other applicable
rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Plumbing Inspector
before installation. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-325: INSPECTOR TO BE INFORMED WHEN SEWER IS READY FOR INSPECTION:
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify one or more times per
year from intermediate users and two (2) or more times per year from major
users. The City may or may not give prior notice of its intent to collect a
sample(s). (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-326: SEWER EXCAVATION TO BE GUARDED:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City. (Ord. 257, 12-14-
1981)
17-327: WATER DRAINAGE NOT TO BE DISCHARGED INTO SANITARY SEWER:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-328: STORM WATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE TO BE DISCHARGED INTO PROPER DRAIN:
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the City Manager. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the City Manager, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-329: USER CHARGES:
   A.   For the purpose of providing funds for the operation and maintenance of
the sanitary sewerage system and for other purposes as allowed by applicable
law, there is hereby fixed and established a system of user charges comprised
of base level charges, surcharges and other charges to be levied against each
respective user thereof. The base level charges are based on the costs of
operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewerage system including replacement
as well as the volume, strength, and delivery flow rate of the sewage. The
costs of treating the extraneous flows shall be included in the cost of
operation and maintenance and, as such, shall be apportioned among the users on
the same basis as the other operation and maintenance costs. The base level
charge will be a uniform rate per unit of volume. The surcharges will be
developed as necessary and levied as applicable against the dischargers of
excessive strength waste and/or toxic pollutants. The surcharge will be based
on the cost of treatment of these wastes. The other charges are not related to
the cost of operation and maintenance but are for other purposes as allowed by
applicable law. They are based on volume but the rate per unit of volume will
decrease as the total volume increases. The user charge is the sum of the
various charges. The City shall review the base level portion of the user
charges annually and revise it as necessary to reflect the actual sanitary
sewage operation, maintenance and replacement cost and to ensure appropriate
distribution of the cost among the users. The City shall maintain such records
as are necessary to document the adequacy and proportionality of the base level
portion of the user charges. The records shall be maintained as long as
required by all applicable rules and regulations. The users shall be notified,
no less than annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rates and the
portion of the user charge attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   B.   The monthly volume of sewage discharged by each user shall be assumed
to be equal to the quantity of water metered to the user but, in the cases
where the volume cannot be reasonably determined from the water so metered, the
amount of sewage discharged into the City system shall be determined as
provided in Section
17-330 of this Chapter.
   C.   A surcharge system meeting EPA requirements will be developed if
industries with above normal strength wastes and/or wastes containing other
pollutants that may increase the cost of operation and maintenance desire to
use the sewage facilities.
   D.   The wastewater from any industry(ies) that desires to use the sewage
facilities will be analyzed to determine the need, if any, to apply a
surcharge. The analyses will be carried out in accordance with the procedures
described in Section
17-331 of this Chapter.
   E.   The City Council shall from time to time by ordinance or resolution set
or amend the fees and charges for sewer use by customers of the City's sewer
system. A copy of the current fees or charges shall be kept on file in the City
Clerk's office.
   F.   Except as herein otherwise expressly provided each person, firm,
corporation, association, institution, or establishment from whose property or
premises sewage is discharged into the sanitary sewage system of the City but
who is not a water customer of the City is hereby required to meter, at its
source, the quantity of water used with an appropriate meter to be approved by
the City and to pay a monthly user charge based upon the quantity of water thus
metered and the strength of sewage discharged, to be computed in like manner as
provided in the preceding subsections of this Section.
   G.   Each user of the sanitary sewerage system of the City, who is a water
customer of the City but who also obtains, uses or consumes water from any
source other than from the City is hereby required to meter, at such source,
the quantity used, with an appropriate meter to be approved by the City, and to
pay a monthly user charge based upon the total quantity of water metered and
the strength of sewage discharged, to be computed in like manner as provided in
the preceding subsections of this Section. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-330: CLASSIFICATION OF INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   Classifications of industrial users are as follows:
      1.   Minor users are those whose industrial discharge meets all of the
following criteria:
         a.   Flow: The maximum hourly rate of discharge is defined to be one
thousand forty two (1,042) gallons or less; and
         b.   Hourly Discharge: The maximum hourly rate of discharge is defined
to be the arithmetical average of any four (4) consecutive hours during which
the greatest total flow occurs;
      2.   Intermediate users are those whose industrial discharge exceeds the
criteria for a minor user but does not exceed any of the following criteria:
         a.   Flow: The maximum hourly rate of discharge, as previously
defined, does not exceed two thousand (2,000) gallons; or
         b.   BOD And SS: The BOD and/or SS concentrations in the discharge do
not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the values shown for normal strength
sewage in Section
17-303 of this Chapter more than ten percent (10%) of the time; and
      3.   Major users are those whose industrial waste discharge does not meet
the flow, BOD or SS criteria listed for minor or intermediate users. (Ord. 257,
12-14-1981)
17-331: MONITORING OF INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   The BOD and SS concentrations in the discharge of "minor users" will
normally be determined from standard values for various industries established
by the City Manager. However, the City Manager will collect samples and may
monitor discharge rates on a random basis. The intermediate users are required
to cause a sample to be collected and analyzed at least one time during any
twelve (12) consecutive months. The major users are required to cause a sample
to be collected and analyzed at least one time per month.
   B.   The sample shall be made up of individual portions collected,
composited and analyzed so as to permit determination of the maximum hourly
discharge rates as previously defined. The analysis shall be determined and
certified by an independent testing laboratory employed by the user and
approved by the City Manager.
   C.   A report shall be prepared and submitted to the City Manager within
fifteen (15) working days after the sample is collected. The report shall be
signed and shall contain a statement assuring that the sample was collected and
composited in such a manner as to be representative of the maximum hourly
discharge rate. It shall also include the:
      1.   Starting and ending time of the sampling period;
      2.   Hourly rate of flow observed during the sampling period;
      3.   Concentrations of BOD and SS;
      4.   Total pounds of BOD and SS discharged during the sampling periods;
and
      5.   Concentrations of other pollutants listed on the user's current
industrial discharge permit.
All costs associated with collection, compositing, analysis and reporting of
these samples shall be borne by the user.
   D.   The sampling point(s) shall be located, installed and maintained by the
user so that any authorized representative of the City may readily and safely
obtain samples of the discharge during all hours when discharge occurs. The
City can be expected to collect a grab sample one or more times per year from
intermediate users and two (2) or more times per year from major users. The
City may or may not give prior notice of its intent to collect sample(s). (Ord.
257, 12-14-1981)
17-332: PERMITS FOR INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   A.   A user discharging industrial wastes into the sanitary sewerage system
prior to the effective date of this Chapter may continue without penalty so
long as he does not increase the quantity of the discharge without the prior
permission of the City Manager and has discharged the industrial waste at least
three (3) months prior to the effective date of this Chapter and applies for
and is granted a "permit to discharge" no later than one hundred twenty (120)
days after the effective date of this Chapter. Section
17-329 of this Chapter on user charges shall take precedence over any terms,
conditions of agreement, or contracts between the grantee, the City and any
users that are inconsistent. Upon application on forms provided by the City,
permit to discharge may be granted to users provided that the user:
      1.   Submits an application within forty five (45) days after the
effective date of this Chapter;
      2.   Secures approval by the City Manager of plans and specifications for
pretreatment facilities when required;
      3.   Has complied with all requirements, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Payment of charges;
         b.   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         c.   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and quality;
      4.   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
         a.   Meet all conditions of this Section except subsection A1;
         b.   Submit an application for discharge sixty (60) days or more prior
to the planned initiation of such discharge;
         c.   Secure a permit to discharge prior to discharging any wastes; and
         d.   Demonstrate compliance with applicable State and Federal
statutes, rules and regulations; and
      5.   Permits issued under this Section are issued subject to conditions
listed thereon and all other applicable local, State and Federal statutes,
rules and regulations. The permits are subject to revocation for noncompliance.
The permit conditions are subject to modification by the City Manager if such
modification is or becomes necessary to protect the sanitary sewerage system or
its proper functioning, or if such modification becomes necessary as a result
of requirements imposed by the State or Federal government. (Ord. 257, 12-14-
1981)
17-333: EXCEPTIONS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporations, association, institution, or
establishment from whose property or premises sewage is discharged into the
sanitary sewerage system of the City where the charges, as determined in
accordance with the provisions of Section
17-329 of this Chapter, do not reasonably reflect the amount of sewage and
concentration of BOD and/or suspended solids discharged by the applicant into
the sanitary sewerage system, may apply in writing to the City Council to make
a survey of the special facts and conditions shown to exist by such
application. After considering such application and survey, the City Council
shall determine the amount of sewage and concentration of BOD and suspended
solids discharged by the applicant into the sanitary sewer system under the
special facts and conditions shown to exist so that the charges to the
applicant will be just, fair and equitable.
   B.   Each user of the sanitary sewerage system of the City whose property or
premises may be located outside the corporate limits of the City shall pay as a
sewer service charge a sum equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the sum
computed under the provisions of Section
17-329 of this Chapter. The City does not obligate itself to furnish sanitary
sewer service to any persons whomsoever, but will furnish such service as is
reasonable within its financial ability to do. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-334: COLLECTIONS:
The sewer service charge for the use of the sanitary sewerage system shall be
billed to each user monthly, along with the bill for water and other services,
and the City Clerk is hereby directed not to accept payment of the bill for
water and other services unless such payment is accompanied with the sewer
service charge. The failure to pay the sewer service when due shall be cause
for discontinuing and disconnecting either the sewer connection, the water
connection, or the electrical connection, or either or all of the connections.
(Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-335: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The funds derived from the sewer service charge shall be deposited in the
general revenues of the trustees of the Prague Public Works Authority to be
used for the upkeep, maintenance, extension and repair of the sanitary sewerage
system and such other uses as are required of the trustees by law and the
obligations incurred by them. Any excess base level revenues that are collected
from a class of users shall be applied to the costs of operation and
maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and the rate shall be
adjusted accordingly. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-336: DISCHARGE OF SUBSTANCES, MATERIALS, WATER OR WASTE TO SANITARY SEWER
PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or facility,
constitute a hazard in the receiving waters of sewage treatment plant effluent;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or causing the pH
of the sewage plant influent to rise above 9.5, or having any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to processes, structures,
equipment and/or personnel of the sewage works;
      4.   Solid viscous or liquid substances in quantities or of such size as
to cause or be capable of causing obstruction to the flow of sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails, paper products such as dishes, cups or milk
containers, either whole or ground by garbage grinders, slops, chemical
residues, or bulk solids;
      5.   Any strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions whether neutralized or not;
      6.   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein;
      7.   Any substance that may pass through the treatment plant without
being effectively treated or otherwise reduced to acceptable concentrations by
normal treatment methods such that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge
to the receiving waters;
      8.   Any waste containing rhenium, strontium or tellurium; and
      9.   Any waters or wastes containing substances in excess of the limits
established in Section
17-337 of this Chapter or that have been diluted solely for the purpose of
meeting any concentration limits listed or implied in this Section and Section
17-337 of this Chapter. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-337: LIMITATION ON DISCHARGE OF SUBSTANCES, MATERIALS, WATERS, OR WASTES TO
THE SANITARY SEWER:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes in concentrations,
quantities or rates in excess of those listed except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty five degrees centigrade (65°C), or
any substance which causes the temperature of the total sewage plant influent
to increase at a rate of ten degrees Fahrenheit (10°F) or more per hour or a
combined total increase of plant influent temperature to one hundred ten
degrees Fahrenheit (110°F);
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oil, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0° and 65°C);
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage shredder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
(3/4) horsepower (0.75 hp-metric) or greater is subject to review and approval
of the City Manager;
      4.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits to be established by the City Manager on a
case-by-case basis in compliance with and after consultation with the
appropriate regulatory agencies;
      5.   Any substance with a BOD or suspended solids concentration in excess
of three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) except that upon receipt of a
written application and establishment of appropriate charges the City Manager
may, if the sewage works has sufficient unused or uncommitted capacity,
authorize the discharge of wastes containing BOD and/or suspended solids
concentrations in excess of three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l) each;
      6.   Any waters or wastes with total dissolved solids concentrations
greater than three thousand milligrams per liter (3,000 mg/l) plus the
dissolved solids in the City water supply;
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing excessive discoloration or causing
excess discoloration of the effluent, including, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
      8.   Any waters, wastes or other substances containing one or more of the
following constituents in excess of the concentrations listed:
 Average For 30 Consecutive Days (mg/l) Maximum For Any 1 Day (mg/l)
                     Average For 30 Consecutive Maximum For Any 1 Day (mg/l)
                      Days (mg/l)
Antimony              0.01                        
Arsenic               0.1                         
Boron                 1.0                         
Cadmium               0.5                        1.0
Chromium - hexavalent 1.0                         
Chromium - total      5.0                         
Copper                1.0                         
Cyanide               1.0                         
Fluoride              1.5                         
Lead                  0.4                        0.8
Mercury               0.002                       
Nickel                1.8                        3.6
Phenols               0.1                         
Silver                0.3                        1.0
Vanadium              10.0                        
Zinc                  5.0                         
 
      9.   Limitation on elements or compounds not listed will be established
and/or limitations for elements or compounds listed will be lowered if
necessary to ensure that the effluent of the wastewater treatment plant is in
full compliance with legal requirements of County, State or Federal regulatory
agencies. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-338: CITY MANAGER MAY REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING OF WASTE:
   A.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Sections
17-336 and
17-337 of this Chapter, and which in the judgment of the City Manager may have
a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the City Manager may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section
17-343 of this Chapter.
   B.   If the City Manager permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment is subject to the
review and approval of the City Manager, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-339: CITY MANAGER MAY REQUIRE GREASE, OIL INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
City Manager they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the City Manager and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-340: SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE MAINTAINED BY OWNER:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-341: CITY MANAGER MAY REQUIRE MANHOLE:
When required by the City Manager, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances, in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Manager.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 257, 12-
14-1981)
17-342: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WASTES TO MEET CERTAIN STANDARDS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample, or samples,
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas the
pH is determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-343: CITY MAY ACCEPT CERTAIN WASTE BY AGREEMENT:
No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern
in accordance with the user charge section of this Chapter. (Ord. 257, 12-14-
1981)
17-344: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-345: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Plumbing Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification are permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. The Plumbing
Inspector or his representatives have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this Section, the Plumbing Inspector or duly authorized
employees of the City shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the City employees and the City shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by City employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   C.   The Plumbing Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification are permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
17-346: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this Chapter except
Section
17-343 of this Chapter shall be served by the City with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 257, 12-14-1981)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION
SECTION:
17-401: Garbage Collection Established
17-402: City To Collect Garbage And Other Refuse
17-403: Approved Containers
17-404: Fees
17-405: Number Of Collections Established
17-406: Garbage Fees Billed With Other Utilities; Penalty For Nonpayment
17-407: Unauthorized Disposal, Hauling Prohibited
17-408: Accumulations Of Garbage And Other Refuse
17-409: Penalty
17-401: GARBAGE COLLECTION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a system for the collection of garbage and trash in
the City. (Prior Code § 9-1)
17-402: CITY TO COLLECT GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE:
The City may operate the collection of garbage and trash in the City or it may
contract with any person or firm or organization for the collection of such
garbage and trash in the City. (Prior Code § 9-2)
17-403: APPROVED CONTAINERS:
   A.   The acceptable and approved residential refuse container required by
this chapter shall be a receptacle that is not less than thirty (30) gallons,
but not more than ninety six (96) gallons in volume, capable of holding
impervious material, and is of sturdy construction, with a tight-fitting cover,
equipped with at least two (2) handles properly spaced to facilitate handling.
Trash and refuse contained within such containers shall be bagged within the
receptacles upon collection. Bagged yard waste of a reasonable size for
handling may be placed outside and adjacent to acceptable containers for
collection. 55-gallon drum containers are expressly prohibited.
   B.   Residential refuse containers shall be removed from the curb, and
placed back in their appropriate housing areas, within twenty four (24) hours
after collection. (Ord. 473, 5-14-2018)
17-404: FEES:
   A.   The fees for the services regulated pursuant to this chapter shall be
determined by resolution adopted, and subsequently updated from time to time,
by the City Council, which fees shall be paid by those residents, businesses,
and others using the service.
   B.   For persons living outside the corporate City limits there is hereby
established a permit fee allowing them use of the City dumpsters located at the
City Barn. Said fee shall be equal to that assessed to City residents unless
changed and updated by adoption of a resolution by the City Council. No dumping
shall be permitted on Sundays or holidays. (Ord. 473, 5-14-2018)
17-405: NUMBER OF COLLECTIONS ESTABLISHED:
Trash and garbage shall be hauled a minimum of one time per week for commercial
accounts utilizing a dumpster. If more than one pickup per week is needed,
additional pickups will be provided at an additional fee established by motion
or resolution by the City Council. The Public Works Director, upon approval
from the City Manager, may establish the minimum pick-up requirements for
commercial accounts. Residential customers' trash will be picked up one time
per week. Burning trash and garbage in the City is hereby prohibited. (Ord.
316, 11-14-1994)
17-406: GARBAGE FEES BILLED WITH OTHER UTILITIES; PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT:
All charges for garbage services shall be paid to the City, and such bill for
such garbage services shall be added to the other utility bills for the
respective residences, businesses and corporations, and failure to pay any
utility bill due the City, including the bill for garbage and trash hauling,
shall subject the delinquent parties to being denied utility services of any
kind by the City, until such payments have been made. All utility bills due the
City from any one customer may each month be compiled into one itemized bill.
(Prior Code § 9-6)
17-407: UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL, HAULING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful and deemed an offense for any person, business, firm or
corporation to dispose or haul garbage, other than herein provided, and any
person failing to use the services of the City in hauling trash and garbage is
deemed guilty of an offense. Any individual caught illegally dumping without a
permit in any trash receptacle as defined herein shall be subject to a penalty
(see section
17-409 of this chapter), subject to the garbage collection services provided by
the City of Prague. (Ord. 448, 9-8-2014)
17-408: ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE:
No person shall permit garbage or other refuse to accumulate on premises
occupied by him in such manner that the garbage or other refuse becomes a
hazard to the health or safety of others. Such an accumulation of garbage or
other refuse is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be abated as such.
(1983 Code)
17-409: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Prior Code § 9-8)
CHAPTER 5
LANDFILL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
17-501: Short Title
17-502: Designation As Utility (Rep. by Ord. 305-A, 7-26-1993)
17-503: Definitions
17-504: Authorizing Operation And Maintenance
17-505: Fixing Of Use Rates
17-506: Times Of Operation Of Landfill
17-507: Providing For Rules And Regulations
17-508: Violation Prohibited
17-509: Declaration Of City Property
17-510: Unauthorized Dumping Of Trash Declared A Nuisance And Prohibited
17-511: Presumption Of Illegal Dumping
17-512: Penalties
17-501: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may hereinafter be known as THE LANDFILL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 279, 9-
8-1985)
17-502: DESIGNATION AS UTILITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 305-A, 7-26-1993)
17-503: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
OTHER TRASH: All other types of solid waste whatsoever regardless of its
content or makeup.
TRASH: Such solid waste as is defined under Class 6 of the statutes of the
State of Oklahoma or other types of solid waste permitted to be placed in the
landfill by the laws of the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-504: AUTHORIZING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The Prague Public Works Authority is hereby authorized to operate and maintain
the landfill in such form and fashion as will comply with all of the laws of
the State and the Federal Government thereto pertaining, and that the Prague
Public Works Authority shall be vested with all authority necessary to operate
and maintain the landfill in an orderly and lawful fashion. (Ord. 279, 9-8-
1985)
17-505: FIXING OF USE RATES:
The manager of the Prague Public Works Authority, with the advice and consent
of the trustees of the Prague Public Works Authority, shall fix such rates for
the dumping of trash in the landfill as he may deem reasonable to defray the
expense thereof and he is authorized from time to time to change or adjust the
same, subject to the trustees' advice and consent, but once fixed the same
shall remain in full force and effect for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days and such rates shall be kept and published in the office of the City
Clerk. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-506: TIMES OF OPERATION OF LANDFILL:
The manager of the Prague Public Works Authority, subject to the advice and
consent of the trustees of the Authority, shall prepare and publish a schedule
of days of the week that the landfill will be open, as well as the hours of
opening and closing thereon. The manager will cause a schedule of such openings
and closings to be posted at the City Hall and a copy thereof shall be kept and
maintained by the City Clerk for public reference. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-507: PROVIDING FOR RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The manager of the Prague Public Works Authority shall develop and maintain a
comprehensive set of rules and regulations pertaining to the use and
maintenance of the landfill in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations
of the State as well as the United States Government, and such laws, rules and
regulations of the State or United States which are applicable, as well as
those developed by the manager, and as may be subsequently amended, are hereby
adopted as part of this Chapter by reference thereto as though fully set out
herein. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-508: VIOLATION PROHIBITED:
Violation of any law, rules and regulations as are applicable to the operation
of the landfill is hereby prohibited and violation thereof shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the ordinances of the City. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-509: DECLARATION OF CITY PROPERTY:
The landfill is declared to be part of the City including the rights of way
immediately abutting thereto and the same shall be subject to all applicable
ordinances of the City. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-510: UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING OF TRASH DECLARED A NUISANCE AND PROHIBITED:
The dumping of "trash", as defined herein, garbage or other materials or
substances of whatever kind or description on the landfill or the ditches and
roadway abutting thereto is a public nuisance and is strictly prohibited,
provided however, that nothing herein shall be interpreted as preventing the
disposal of lawful "trash", as defined herein, at such locations specifically
provided for the same as designated by the manager of the Prague Public Works
Authority, or his agents, servants and employees, on a day-to-day basis. The
dumping of trash in any other location than that designated shall be deemed a
violation of this Section. Any person found dumping such trash in other than a
designated location shall upon conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor as
herein provided. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-511: PRESUMPTION OF ILLEGAL DUMPING:
Trash which is dumped or abandoned on the landfill or the ditches or rights of
way immediately abutting thereto which can be identified through writings,
postal addresses or other items containing markings identifying the owner or
recipient thereof shall constitute a rebuttable presumption of the ownership
thereof in the court of the City and once established the burden of rebutting
the presumption shall rest on the person identified thereby. The dumping of
trash by other than the owners thereof shall be no defense to a violation of
this Section. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
17-512: PENALTIES:
Each and every violation of any of the provisions contained in this Chapter is
an offense against the City and upon conviction of such offense the violator or
violators will be punished as provided in Section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 279, 9-8-1985)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRIC SERVICE
SECTION:
17-601: Control Of Electric System
17-602: Inspection
17-603: Billing And Payment
17-604: Interruption Of Service
17-605: Resumption Of Electricity Authorized
17-606: Application For Electrical Service; Deposit
17-607: Tampering With Electric Meters
17-608: Service Line Installation
17-609: Connection To Electric Supply Required
17-610: Testing Electric Meters
17-611: Penalties
17-601: CONTROL OF ELECTRIC SYSTEM:
The electric power and distribution system of the city of Prague shall be under
the control of the city manager, who shall be governed by the rules and
regulations set forth herein, and he shall have authority to approve, or
disapprove, all accounts for expenditures in this department and no accounts or
claims shall be paid until approved by the city manager. All electric current
shall be used through meters at rates set by resolution adopted by the public
works authority. The manager shall provide regulations and fees for extra
services relating to nonpayment of bills, disconnect and reconnect service,
request for abnormal services, returned checks, and any other nonroutine
services. Meters shall be read by the city, and all readings shall be turned
over to the utility clerk for billing. Electrical lines used for distribution
of electricity and the meters attached thereto are the property of the city of
Prague and shall be controlled by it, and must be accessible as determined by
the city of Prague at all times for the purposes of reading and servicing.
(Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-602: INSPECTION:
   A.   The wiring of all public buildings shall be done in accordance with
this code or any other ordinances of the city, and no connections shall be made
until such wiring has been inspected and approved by the city electrical
inspector. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
   B.   1. Any vacant property seeking electric service connection within the
service area of the Prague public works authority shall be subject to an
inspection of all electrical systems by the city of Prague prior to connection.
For purposes of this subsection B only, a vacant property shall be any property
that has been without utility service for a period of ninety (90) days or
greater.
      2.   The city of Prague may deny connection to electrical service if the
condition of the vacant property's electrical system(s) poses a threat to the
health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the structure or to the
community.
      3.   In the event that the city of Prague declines to provide electric
service as outlined in subsection B2 of this section, the city of Prague will
provide the property owner with a list of necessary repairs that if completed,
would enable the property to be connected to electrical service. (Ord. 434, 8-
13-2012)
17-603: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
The charges for electric current sold to customers shall become due and payable
in full at least once each month. Electric meters must be accessible to the
city of Prague personnel for reading and service. If it is determined that the
meter is inaccessible, the city manager shall have the authority to require the
customer, at customer's expense, to relocate the service entry point to an
accessible location as determined by the city manager or his designee. Said
installation shall be in accordance with all provisions of the city's
electrical codes. Charges are due and payable upon receipt of a bill. If
payment is not made by the due date, a late payment charge of ten percent (10%)
of the total bill due and owing will be added. If payment has not been received
by the twenty fifth of the month, or a deferred payment arrangement made, the
service will be discontinued for nonpayment. No other notice of disconnection
of service will be required. This will apply regardless of whether or not the
same parties occupy the premises where the electricity was used. Should service
be discontinued because of nonpayment as herein provided, service will not
again be provided for the person who originally made the application, in the
same house or premises, until all arrears are paid together with the fee for
disconnecting and connecting service lines. An additional deposit amount to be
determined by the City Manager may also be required prior to restoration of
service. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-604: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
No additions, changes, or alterations in the service lines shall be made by the
consumer except that same shall be done with the approval of the City. It shall
be the contract between the City and each and every consumer that no claim be
made or allowed against the City for damages caused by or because of the
breaking or faulting of feeder or service lines, either underground or
overhead. No claim shall be allowed for single phasing on 3-phase equipment or
for damage to voltage sensitive electronic equipment. The City reserves the
right to cut off current anywhere or the entire system for repairs, or in case
of emergency, storm, fire, etc. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-605: RESUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY AUTHORIZED:
No person or persons, from whose premises current has been cut off for any
reason shall turn the current on, or cause the same to be turned on, without
authority from the City Manager or his designee. In no event shall electric
service be supplied through any meter other than the meter assigned to that
account by the City of Prague. The conditions of this chapter shall be deemed a
contract between each patron and the City of Prague and the City reserves the
right to amend, alter, or change the terms of this chapter as often as deemed
expedient and for the welfare of the citizens of Prague. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-606: APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE; DEPOSIT:
Any person desiring the use of electric current shall make application in
writing to the utility office of the City of Prague, which application shall
set out the location of the property, the purpose for which the current is to
be used, the identity and mailing address of the customer responsible for
payment. Such application must be signed by the customer or his agent holding a
power of attorney, and shall be approved by the City. Such application must be
accompanied by a deposit in an amount set by the Public Works Authority. If in
the opinion of the City Manager additional security is necessary to insure the
City against loss, then the applicant must make a deposit of the amount
sufficient to insure the payment of a current monthly bill. When the contract
for electric service is terminated and the City has disconnected such service,
the deposit shall be applied to the final bill and any excess funds returned to
him after all bills and fees are paid. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-607: TAMPERING WITH ELECTRIC METERS:
No person except those persons authorized by the City Manager shall turn on any
electric meter after that meter has been turned off by the City; nor shall any
person except those authorized to do so by the City Manager, alter, interfere,
meddle with, wire around, or use jumpers on any electric meter belonging to the
City of Prague, except in cases of emergency. Any such emergency action must be
reported to the City of Prague no later than ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on the
first working day following the emergency action. The City Manager shall
determine the policy to be used by City personnel in investigation of suspected
unauthorized electrical connection. Each meter so altered shall be deemed a
separate offense, and each day such violation continues shall be a separate
offense. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-608: SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION:
The electrical service line or service lateral, as defined by the National
Electrical Code, from the secondary or line in the utility easement, to the
meter loop on the structure, shall be installed by the City of Prague or by
someone duly authorized by the City. Charges for the installation of the
electrical service line shall be based off of the actual costs of materials and
labor associated with the installation, by the City. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation other than the City of Prague, to install any
electrical service or service laterals as provided in this section unless the
person, firm or corporation has been authorized in writing by the City Manager
or his designee to perform such work. (Ord. 462, 1-11-2016)
17-609: CONNECTION TO ELECTRIC SUPPLY REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: All commercial and industrial buildings or properties to be
constructed, added to, or altered within the City of Prague, and all
residential buildings, uses, or properties shall connect with the electrical
supply of the City of Prague.
   B.   Exception To Connection Requirement: The provisions of this section
shall not apply to:
      1.   A structure constructed outside a platted subdivision where in the
opinion of the City it is not economically feasible to connect the structure
with the Prague electric system.
      2.   All land uses permitted where the subdivision or structure was
constructed in a previously platted area served by an electrical system other
than that of the City of Prague. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-610: TESTING ELECTRIC METERS:
In the event any user shall question the accuracy of any meter and if he shall
want the meter tested, such user shall make his requests with the City Clerk
and shall make a deposit in an amount set by the City Manager with said Clerk.
An employee of the City designated by the City Manager shall then remove the
meter and submit for testing. If the meter shows an error in favor of the user
in excess of two percent (2%) the user shall be credited with such an amount as
the Manager shall decide is right, just and equitable, taking into
consideration the amount of electricity that was probably consumed by such user
during the time under dispute. In such case the deposit left by him shall be
returned to him; however if the test should show that the meter did not vary
more than two percent (2%), as above stated, then the deposit shall be retained
by the Clerk to pay the expense of removing, testing and replacing the meter.
(Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
17-611: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (Ord. 409, 12-8-2008)
PART 18
MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATIONS
Subject   Chapter
Definitions   1
Medical Marijuana Establishments   2
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
18-101: Definitions
18-101: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this Chapter and Article, shall
have the following meaning, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, and
in accordance with OAC 310: 681-1-4.
APPLICANT: The natural person or entity in whose name a license would be
           issued.
APPLICANT:        The natural person or entity in whose name a license would be issued.
COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENT     An individual or entity licensed under this Part and/or Chapter as a medical
("ESTABLISHMENT") marijuana dispensary, grower, processor, or researcher.
OR COMMERCIAL
LICENSEE:
COMMERCIAL        A license issued to a medical marijuana dispensary, grower, processor, or
LICENSE:          researcher.
COMMISSIONER:     The Commissioner of Health of the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
DEPARTMENT:       The Oklahoma State Department of Health or its agent or designee.
                  The retail sale of medical marijuana, medical marijuana concentrate, or a
DISPENSE:         medical marijuana products to a qualified patient, the qualified patient's
                  parent(s) or legal guardian(s) if qualified patient is a minor, and a licensed
                  caregiver.
                  An individual or entity that has been licensed by the Department pursuant to 63
                  O.S. § 421A and this Chapter, which allows the dispensary to purchase medical
DISPENSARY:       marijuana from a processer or grower and to sell medical marijuana only to a
                  qualified patient, to the qualified patient's parent(s) or legal guardian(s) if
                  qualified patient is an minor, and a licensed caregiver.
                  A sole proprietorship, a general partnership, a limited partnership, a limited
ENTITY:           liability company, a trust, an estate, an association, a corporation, or any
                  other legal or commercial entity.
                  Has the same meaning as set forth in 63 O.S. § 1-1101 and the Oklahoma
                  Administrative Code ("OAC") 310:257-1-3 ("'food' means (1) articles used for
FOOD:             food or drink for man, (2) chewing gum, and (3) articles used for components of
                  any such article") and set forth in OAC 310:260-1-6 ("'food’ means any raw,
                  cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or ingredient used or
                  intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption").
GROWER OR         An individual or entity that has been licensed by the Department pursuant to 63
COMMERCIAL        O.S. § 422A, which allows the grower to grow, harvest, dry, cure, and package
GROWER:           medical marijuana according to this Part and/or Chapter for the purpose of
                  selling to a dispensary or processor.
INFORMATION       Has the same definition as set forth in 21 CFR § 101.2 and means "that part of
PANEL:            the label immediately contiguous and to the right of the principal display panel
                  as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel."
                  Carries the same definition as set forth in 63 O.S. § 1-1101 and means “a
                  display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of
                  any article; and a requirement made by or under authority of this article that
LABEL:            any word, statement, or other information appearing on the label shall not be
                  considered to be complied with unless such word, statement, or other information
                  also appears on the outside container or wrapper, if there be any, of the retail
                  package of such article, or is easily legible through the outside container or
                  wrapper."
LICENSE:          A state issued license or other state issued documentation proving the holder of
                  such license is a member of a state regulated medical marijuana program.
LICENSE NUMBER:   The unique multi-character identifier issued and printed upon each license.
                  Any natural born person or entity that holds a medical marijuana license
LICENSEE:         provided for in this Part and/or Chapter, excluding inmates of any local,
                  county, state, or federal correctional facility or jail.
LICENSED          As used in 63 O.S. § 422A(C) means a processor.
PACKAGER:
                  All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds of
                  a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a plant of that type;
                  and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of a
                  plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. "Marijuana" does not include the
                  mature stalks of the plant or fiber produced from the stalks; oil or cake made
MARIJUANA:        from the seeds of the plant; or any other compound, manufacture, salt,
                  derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin
                  extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake; the sterilized seed of the
                  plant that is incapable of germination; or industrial hemp, from the plant
                  Cannabis sativa L. and any part of such plant, whether growing or not, with a
                  delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-tenths of one
                  percent (0.3%) on a dry weight basis.
MEDICAL           Marijuana that is grown, processed, dispensed, tested, possessed, or used for a
MARIJUANA:        medical purpose, and includes medical marijuana concentrate and medical
                  marijuana products.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA A substance obtained by separating cannabinoids from any part of the marijuana
CONCENTRATE       plant by physical or chemical means, so as to deliver a product with a
("CONCENTRATE"):  cannabinoid concentration greater than the raw plant material from which it is
                  derived.
                  A product that contains cannabinoids that have been extracted from plant
MEDICAL MARIJUANA material or the resin therefrom by physical or chemical means and is intended
PRODUCT:          for administration to a qualified patient, including but not limited to oils,
                  tinctures, edibles, pills, topical forms, gels, creams, and other derivative
                  forms.
                  Unused, surplus, returned or out-of-date marijuana; recalled marijuana; unused
MEDICAL MARIJUANA marijuana; plant debris of the plant of the genus cannabis, including dead
WASTE:            plants and all unused plant parts and roots; and any wastewater generated during
                  growing and processing.
MINOR:            Any natural person younger than eighteen (18) years of age.
OKLAHOMA RESIDENT An individual who resides in the State of Oklahoma and can provide proof of
("RESIDENT"):     residency as required by 63 O.S. § 420A et seq. and OAC 310:681-1-6.
OKLAHOMA UNIFORM  The image, established by the Department and made available to commercial
SYMBOL:           licensees, indicating the package contains marijuana and must be printed at
                  least one-half inch in size by one-half inch in size in color.
OUT-OF-STATE      An unexpired medical marijuana patient license issued by another U.S. state,
MEDICAL MARIJUANA which is the substantial equivalent of the Oklahoma medical marijuana patient
PATIENT LICENSE:  license issued pursuant to OAC 310:681-2-1 and OAC 310:681-2-2.
PACKAGE OR        Any container or wrapper that a grower or processor may use for enclosing or
PACKAGING:        containing medical marijuana or medical marijuana products.
PATIENT OR        A person that has been properly issued a medical marijuana license pursuant to
QUALIFIED         63 O.S. § 420A et seq. and these rules.
PATIENT:
                  A doctor of medicine or a doctor of osteopathic medicine who holds a valid,
                  unrestricted and existing license to practice in the State of Oklahoma and meets
PHYSICIAN:        the definition of "board certified" under rules established by either the
                  Oklahoma Board of Medical Licensure or the Oklahoma Board of Osteopathic
                  Examiners.
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY Has the same definition as set forth in 21 CFR § 101.1 and "means the part of a
PANEL:            label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under
                  customary conditions of display for retail sale."
                  An elementary, middle, or high school maintained by private individuals,
PRIVATE SCHOOL:   religious organizations, or corporations, funded, at least in part, by fees or
                  tuition, and open only to pupils selected and admitted based on religious
                  affiliations or other particular qualifications.
PROCESS:          To distill, extract, manufacture, prepare, or otherwise produce a medical
                  marijuana product or medical marijuana concentrate.
                  An individual or entity that has been licensed by the Department pursuant to 63
                  O.S. § 423A, which allows the processor to: purchase medical marijuana from a
PROCESSOR:        grower or processor; process, package, and sell medical marijuana to a
                  dispensary or processor; and may process medical marijuana received from a
                  qualified patient into a medical marijuana concentrate, for a fee.
                  An elementary, middle, or high school established under state law, regulated by
PUBLIC SCHOOL:    the local state authorities in the various political subdivisions, funded and
                  maintained by public taxation, and open and free to all children of the
                  particular district where the school is located.
RETAILER:         As used in 63 O.S. § 420A et seq. means a dispensary.
                  The Department's final decision in accordance with the Oklahoma Administrative
REVOCATION:       Procedures Act, 75 O.S. § 250 et seq., that any license issued pursuant to 63
                  O.S. § 420A et seq. and this Chapter is rescinded.
RULES:            Unless otherwise indicated, the rules as adopted and set forth in OAC 310:681.
STATE QUESTION:   Oklahoma State Question No. 788 and Initiative Petition Number 412.
                  A license issued automatically to commercial licensees upon approval of a
TRANSPORTATION    commercial license, which allows growers, processors, or dispensaries, or their
LICENSE:          authorized agent(s), to deliver medical marijuana from their licensed locations
                  to the licensed locations of other growers, processors, or dispensaries. (Ord.
                  483, 8-12-2019)
 
CHAPTER 2
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
18-201: Municipal Licenses
18-202: Zoning Requirements
18-203: Conditions Of Operations
18-204: Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use; Security
18-201: MUNICIPAL LICENSES:
   A.   All Commercial Marijuana Growers, Commercial Marijuana Processors,
Commercial Marijuana Transporters, Retail Marijuana Dispensaries, Licensed
Packagers, Wholesale Facilities, and Research Facilities are required to obtain
a permit from the City Clerk or their designee. These Commercial Establishments
are defined as any medical marijuana establishment licensed by the State of
Oklahoma. The Permit shall be issued by the City upon:
      1.   the Applicant's presentation of proof and verification of the
Applicant's current and valid License from the State Department pursuant to 63
O.S. § 420A et seq. and Title 310 of the Rules of the Oklahoma State Department
of Health: 681-1 et seq.; and
      2.   payment of the Permit Fee.
   B.   The City Commission will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
Permit for each of the above described entities. The fee shall be used to
offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of the above described entities. (Ord. 483, 8-
12-2019)
18-202: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The following Commercial Establishments shall be located and subject to
the following zoning restrictions, pursuant to the City of Prague, Oklahoma
Zoning Ordinance, being
Section 12 of the Prague Municipal Code, effective 2-14-2000:
      1.   Commercial Marijuana Processors shall be located in areas zoned C-2
[General Commercial], I-1 [Light Industrial], or I-2 [Heavy Industrial];
      2.   Commercial Marijuana Growers (limited to indoor growing only) shall
be located in areas zoned C-2 [General Commercial], I-1 [Light Industrial], or
I-2 [Heavy Industrial];
      3.   Retail Marijuana Dispensaries shall be located in areas zoned C-1
[Light Commercial], C-2 [General Commercial], I-1 [Light Industrial], and I-2
[Heavy Industrial];
      4.   Commercial Marijuana Research Facilities may be located in areas
zoned C-1 [Light Commercial], C-2 [General Commercial], I-1 [Light Industrial],
and I-2 [Heavy Industrial];
      5.   Commercial Marijuana Growers (outdoor or indoor) shall be located in
areas zoned A [Agricultural], I-1 [Light Industrial], and I-2 [Heavy
Industrial];
      6.   Licensed Packagers, and Wholesale Facilities shall be located in
areas zoned I-1 [Light Industrial], and I-2 [Heavy Industrial];
      7.   All Commercial Establishments shall be prohibited from being located
in areas zoned R-1 [Single Family Residential], except Marijuana Growing
Facilities for Personal Medical Use, which shall be located in areas zoned R-1;
      8.   All Commercial Establishments shall be prohibited from being located
in areas zoned PUD [Planned Unit Development], except Commercial Marijuana
Dispensaries, which may be located in a PUD.
   B.   A Permit will not be granted to any Applicant where the proposed
location of the Retail/Dispensary Establishment would be located within one
thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private school entrance. (Ord. 483, 8-
12-2019)
18-203: CONDITIONS OF OPERATIONS:
   A.   Buildings or transportation vehicles where marijuana is stored or
dispensed must be equipped with ventilation/air filtration systems so that no
odors are detectable off premises.
   B.   Any growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components in use shall comply with municipal building and fire codes.
   C.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
permit, and a fine of $200.00 per day while the violation exists.
   D.   Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to: (1) allow persons to
engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public nuisance; or (2) allow any
activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by state law; in
particular, the above municipal regulations in this section are intended to
comport with, follow, but not exceed, those state regulations promulgated in 63
O.S. 420A et seq. and OAC 310-681-1 et seq. (Ord. 483, 8-12-2019)
18-204: MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE; SECURITY:
   A.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall not be conducted in a
manner that constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to
exist if growing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or
vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes
with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   B.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   C.   The above municipal regulations in this section are intended to comport
with, follow, but not exceed, those state regulations promulgated in 63 O.S.
420A et seq. and OAC 310-681-1 et seq. (Ord. 483, 8-12-2019)
APPENDIX 1
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
 
 
Ord. No., Date             Description
Ord. 234, 11-20-1979       Grants nonexclusive franchise to Pottawatomie County
(amd. Ord. 274, 8-13-1984) Cablevision Company for a term of 25 years.
Ord. 396, 2-13-2006        Grants nonexclusive franchise to Falcon Cable Media
                           for a term of 15 years.
486, 7-12-2021             Grants nonexclusive franchise to VYVE Broadband A,
                           LLC for a term of 15 years.
 
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
Ord. No.   Date   Subject   Disposition
195-A   1-21-1974   Adopting and enacting City Code.   Special
196   8-26-1974   Raise City's proprietary revenue.
197   9-3-1974   Funds for general and special purposes.
198   6-16-1975   Sewer use charge.
199   8-18-1975   Amend sewer use charge.
200   7-19-1976   Amend building permit fee.
201   8-2-1976   Study of pensions for Municipal employees.
202   11-1-1976   2 hour parking.
203   11-15-1976   Employee retirement system.
203-A   4-4-1977   Flood plain identification.
204   12-6-1976   Providing for maximum fine.
204-A   8-2-1977   Annexation of property - Chech Inn and Highway 99-
South.   Special
205   12-6-1976   Restricted parking zone on A Avenue.
205-A   8-2-1977   Change of regular Council meeting time.
206   9-6-1977   Regulations of parks and recreation.
207   1-3-1978   Flood hazard prevention.
208   10-4-1977   Restricted parking on 14th Street.
209   10-4-1977   Unlawful possession of controlled dangerous substance
(marijuana).
210   11-15-1977   Annexation of property (Spitler property-southwest of
City).      Special
211   11-15-1977   2 hour parking.
212   12-6-1977   Annexation of property (golf course Parks
property).   Special
213   2-7-1978   Amend City Code referring to Fire Department.
214   2-7-1978   Change City Council meeting time.
215   3-20-1978   Prague Municipal cemetery.
216   7-3-1978   Cost of cemetery lots.
217   7-17-1978   Prohibit truck traffic on 8th Street.
218   8-21-1978   Annexation of property (Drive-in Theater).   Special
219   8-21-1978   Annexation of property (Southeast   Special
      of Tri-County and Highway 99).
220   8-21-1978   Annex property (Prague Airport).   Special
221   9-5-1978   Annex Eugene Pickett property.   Special
222   9-18-1978   Annex old highway from airport to current City
limits.   Special
223   9-18-1978   Vehicle inspection stickers.
224   9-18-1978   Specify amount and condition of bail for violation of
ordinance or Code.
225   9-18-1978   Changes in Plumbing Ordinance.
226   10-2-1978   Annex John Onderek property.   Special
227   11-6-1978   Annex additional property at airport.   Special
228   11-6-1978   Prohibit truck traffic on North Barta.
229   1-15-1979   Court cost issued by judge.
230   2-19-1979   Inspection for gas piping and specifications for PVC.
231   3-5-1979   Quorum for Planning Commission.
232   3-19-1979   Provide 2 hour parking limit; set fines.
233   4-16-1979   Prohibit truck traffic on all streets located in Anderson
Addition.
234   11-20-1979   Grant Cablevision franchise.
234-A   5-21-1979   Election on Cablevision franchise.
235   6-18-1979   Amend retirement fund and retirement system.
236   6-18-1979   Annex property (easement and site of water tower).   Special
237   6-18-1979   Annex property owned by Gene Greer.   Special
238   7-16-1979   Annex property owned by Edna Gillum.   Special
239   9-4-1979   Annex property owned by Paul/Emily Spitler north of
City.   Special
240   9-4-1979   Adopt zoning ordinances.
241   9-17-1979   Annex property - Maxine Kingsbury.   Special
242   10-1-1979   Change City Council meetings.
243   11-6-1979   Levy additional sales tax.
244   12-18-1979   Amend sales tax ordinance.
245   1-2-1980   Annex property - C.A. Henderson.   Special
246   1-15-1980   Correct legal description of Ordinance 237.
247   --   Sewer rules and regulations.
248   4-16-1980   Establish maximum vehicle weights in residential areas.
249   2-17-1981   Changes to electrical code.
250   3-16-1981   Rules and regulations for consumption of intoxicating
beverages.
251   5-18-1981   Change time of City Council meetings.
252   7-6-1981   Sanitary sewer service.
253   5-18-1981   Change time of City Council meetings.
253   7-1-1981   Levy City sales tax.
254   11-2-1981   Change of City Council meetings.
255   11-16-1981   Create office of City Electrical Inspector.
256   11-16-1981   Restricted parking on Main Street.
257   12-14-1981   Amend ordinance relating to sanitary sewer system.
258   1-11-1982   Establish Police Board of Review.
259   3-8-1982   Rules and regulations for police reserve.
260   3-8-1982   Raising amount of money that may be expended by City Manager
without competitive bidding.
261   5-10-1982   Amend Article 6, park commissioners, Park Board created.
262   5-10-1982   Amend Chapter 5, peddler's license.
263   7-12-1982   Amend charge for holiday and weekend grave openings.
264   --
265   --
266   --
267   --
268   4-11-1983   Amending Chapter 3 - Animals.
269   6-13-1983   Adopting Code of ordinances.   Special
270   8-8-1983   Amending Part 15, Chapter 7 Stopping, Standing and Parking
Generally.    15-228, 15-726
271   10-10-1983   Amending Part 15, Chapter 3    Traffic and Vehicles -
Vehicle Equipment, Inspection.   15-229
272   1-9-1984   Amending employee retirement system.   2-710
273   5-14-1984   Time of sale of nonintoxicating beverages.   3-203
274   8-13-1984   Prague Cable Television Ordinance rate schedule.   App. 1
275   11-5-1984   Sales Tax Ordinance amendment.   7-209
276   2-11-1985   Fire Service authorized outside City limits.   13-211
277   4-8-1985   Prague Lake regulations.   11-401– 11-460
278   5-13-1985   Amending prosecuting attorney duties; conflict of
interest.   6-115
279   9-8-1985   Authorizing Public Works Authority to operate and maintain the
solid waste (Class 6) landfill.   17-501– 17-512
280   12-9-1985   Fixing fees and mileage that are to be paid to jurors and
witnesses.   6-128
281   12-9-1985   Provide for removal of drainage obstruction in ditches,
curbs, storm    or drainageways.   14-112
282   7-14-1986   Providing for solicitor's license.   9-101– 9-105
283   7-14-1986   Increasing excise tax from 2% to 3%.   7-207, 7-208
284   11-10-1986   Blinds for waterfowl hunting permitted.   11-436
285   1-12-1987   Prohibiting the accumulation of trash    or weeds on
property. 8-115–   8-117
286   1-12-1987   Providing for cleaning and mowing property.   8-101–8-107
287   3-9-1987   Flood damage prevention.   12-301–12-318
288   4-20-1987   Levying and assessing a City excise tax of 1%.   7-207, 7-
208, 7-215–7-217
289   3-14-1988   Unauthorized U-turns and improper turns for parking. (7th and
12th St.)   15-904
290   9-12-1988   Unauthorized U-turns and improper turns for parking. (4th and
12th St.)   15-904
291   8-14-1989   Raising general penalty to $200.00. (Sec. 1-108)   1-108
292   12-11-1989   Specifying court costs not to exceed $15.00 plus fees and
mileage of jurors and witnesses.   6-131
293   6-11-1990   Changing corporate and ward limits.   Special
294   2-11-1991   Specifying court costs to be assessed not to exceed
$32.50.   6-131
295   5-13-1991   Court costs.   6-131
296   --   Failed.
297   5-11-1992   Weeds and grass; dilapidated buildings.   8-101; Part 8, Ch.
5
298   6-15-1992   Employee retirement system.   Special
299   6-15-1992   Fair housing.   Part 5, Ch. 7
300   6-15-1992   Use tax.   Part 7, Ch. 5
301   7-13-1992   Amplification systems.   10-309
302   1-11-1993   Ward number and boundaries.   1-202
303   4-19-1993   Repealer--Police Board of Review.   Part 13, Ch. 4, Art. B
304   6-15-1993   Abandoned, wrecked autos.   Part 15, Ch. 12
305   11-8-1993   Sales tax.   Part 7, Ch. 2
305-A   7-26-1993   Repealer--landfill as utility.   17-502
305-B   7-12-1993   Cemetery burial.   11-222
306   7-12-1993   Sales and display booths.   Part 9. Ch. 2
307   10-11-1993   City Clerk/Treasurer.   2-401, 2-402
308   10-25-1993   Refuse containers.   17-403
309   11-8-1993   Dumpster fees.   17-404
310   12-13-1993   Use tax.   7-502
311   1-10-1994   Adoption of building code.   5-101
312   1-10-1994   Adoption of fire prevention code.   13-101
313   1-10-1994   Adoption of mechanical code.   5-901
314   1-10-1994   Adoption of housing code.   5-801
315   9-19-1994   Vacation.   Special
316   11-14-1994   Garbage collection.   17-405
317   11-14-1994   Rezone.   Special
318   12-12-1994   Rezone.   Special
318-A   8-14-1995   Rezone.   Special
319   4-10-1995   Sales and display booths.   Part 9, Ch. 2
319-A   8-14-1995   Rezone.   Special
320   6-12-1995   Airport height restriction zoning.   Special
321   10-25-1995   Sales tax.   7-202
322   2-12-1996   Use tax.   7-502
R96-02   3-18-1996   Rates for rural fire runs.   13-212
323   4-8-1996   Retirement plan.   Special
324   8-12-1996   Garage and residential sales.   Part 9, Ch. 3
324-B   10-16-1996   Fair housing.   Part 5, Ch. 7
325   12-9-1996   Fire Chief.   13-201
 
326   1-13-1997   Rezone.   Special
327   2-10-1997   Rezone.   Special
328   4-14-1997   Redesignation of Lake Fund to Emergency Reserve
Fund.   Special
329   4-14-1997   Annexation.   Special
330   4-14-1997   Rezone.   Special
331   4-24-1997   Zoning, annexed property.   Special
R97-04   4-24-1997   Payment of utility bills.   17-102
R97-05   5-12-1997   Emergency management.   Part 13, Ch. 3
332   6-9-1997   Annexation.   Special
333   --   Zoning, annexed property.   Special
334   6-9-1997   Annexation.   Special
335   6-9-1997   Zoning, annexed property.   Special
336   --   Tabled.
337   6-12-1997   Employee deferred compensation plan.   Part 2, Ch. 7, Art. C
R97-11   7-23-1997   Sewer rates.   17-329
R97-12   9-8-1997   Method of utility billing.   Special
R97-13   10-13-1997   Contract with Prague Elderly 60+ Senior
Citizens.   Special
338   11-10-1997   Annexation.   Special
R98-07   9-14-1998   Ministerial Alliance Chaplin Program.   13-309
339   12-14-1998   Amending deferred compensation plan.   Special
340   2-8-1999   Use tax.   7-502
341   8-9-1999   Annexation.   Special
342   9-13-1999   Amending defined contribution retirement system.   Special
343   10-18-1999   Lake fees and regulations.   11-410, 11-411, 11-421, 11-422,
11-432, 11-440, 11-442
344   11-8-1999   Sewer connection charges.   17-302
R99-10   11-8-1999   Bulk water purchases.   Special
345   1-10-2000   Annexation.   Special
346   1-10-2000   Annexation.   Special
347   1-10-2000   Annexation.   Special
348   1-10-2000   Annexation.   Special
349   1-10-2000   Annexation.   Special
353   2-14-2000   Adopting zoning ordinance, official zoning map and Prague
Municipal Airport height zoning map.   12-201
354   2-14-2000   Volunteer firefighters.   13-207
357   6-21-2000   All-terrain vehicles.   Part 15, Ch. 15
358   8-14-2000   Insulting signs, literature or language.   10-302
359   10-9-2000   Annexation.   Special
360   --   Did not pass.
361   1-16-2001   Sales tax.   7-202
361   10-10-2005   Sales tax.   7-202
361   10-8-2012   Sales tax.   7-202
362   4-9-2001   Use tax.   7-502
363   5-14-2001   Use tax.   7-502
364   6-11-2001   Amend employee retirement system defined contribution
plan.   Special
365   8-13-2001   Amend employee retirement system defined contribution
plan.   Special
366   8-13-2001   Amend retirement defined contribution plan.    Special
367   8-13-2001   Annexation.   Special
368   10-12-2001   Purchasing approval by council.   7-105
369   10-12-2001   When competitive bidding not required.   7-107A1
370   12-10-2001   Camping fees.   11-442A2
371   3-11-2002   Covering windows and doors    prohibited.10-217
372   3-14-2002   Annexation.   Special
373   5-3-2002   Annexation.   Special
374   5-13-2002   De-annexation.   Special
375   5-13-2002   Annexation.   Special
376   8-12-2002   Annexation.   Special
377   8-12-2002   Off road vehicles.   11-407
377A   10-15-2002   Community development block grant.   Special
378   3-10-2003   Amend retirement defined contribution plan.    Special
379   3-10-2003   Amend retirement defined benefit plan for retirees.   Special
380   3-10-2003   Flood damage prevention.   Part 12, Ch. 3
381   3-10-2003   Ward number and boundaries.   1-202
382   6-9-2003   City manager retirement defined contribution plan.   Part 2,
Ch. 7, Art. D
383   6-9-2003   Amend retirement defined contribution plan.   Special
384   8-11-2003   Fees for spaces and grave openings.   11-214
385   2-9-2004   Purchases, how made.   7-104
386   2-9-2004   Time of regular council meetings.   2-202
387   10-12-2004   Amend retirement defined contribution plan.   Special
388   11-14-2005   Adoption of building code.   5-101
389   11-14-2005   Adoption of mechanical code.   5-901
390   11-14-2005   Adoption of residential code.   5-801
391   11-14-2005   Adoption of fuel gas code.   5-401
392   11-14-2005   Adoption of fire code.   13-101
393   11-14-2005   Adoption of plumbing code.   5-201, 5-202
394   1-9-2006   Council members allowed to serve as volunteers.   2-204
395   1-9-2006   New fire department members.   13-207A
396   2-13-2006   Falcon Cable Media franchise.   App. 1
397   5-8-2006   Cemetery provisions.   11-208, 11-211, 11-213, 11-214, 11-215,
11-222
398   8-14-2006   General penalty; security verification form violation.   1-
108A, 15-229B
399   8-14-2006   Inspection of vehicles.   15-306
400   1-8-2007   Adopts code.   Front of code
401   7-9-2007   Rezone.   Special
402   1-14-2008   Rezone.   Special
403   1-14-2008   Volunteer firefighters.   13-202A
404   7-14-2008   Jake brakes.   15-555
405   10-13-2008   Rezone.   Special
406   10-13-2008   Rezone.   Special
407   10-13-2008   Rezone.   Special
408   12-8-2008   Consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors.   Part 10, Ch.
8
409   12-8-2008   Electric service.   Part 17, Ch. 6
410   2-9-2009   Maximum number of dogs and cats.   4-103
411   3-9-2009   Amend retirement defined benefit plan for retirees.   Special
412   5-11-2009   Permit fees.   5-203; 5-204; 5-307D12,E; 5-902
413   5-11-2009   Rezone.   Special
414   6-8-2009   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
415   7-13-2009   Terminating retirement defined benefit plan for
retirees.   Special
416A   10-12-2009   Amend retirement defined contribution plan.   Special
416B   10-12-2009   Amend city manager retirement defined contribution plan.
   Special
417   6-14-2010   Flood damage prevention.   Part 12, Ch. 3
418   7-12-2010   Solicitors' licenses and selling goods on sidewalks.      9-
102, 9-104
419   7-12-2010   Parks, recreation and tourism board.   11-107A intro, 11-108,
11-109
420   10-11-2010   Animal fees.   4-138, 4-165
421   4-11-2011   Rezone.   Special
422   6-13-2011   Time of regular council meetings.   2-202
423   10-10-2011   Annexation.   Special
424   10-10-2011   Annexation.   Special
425   11-14-2011   Vehicle impound fee.   15-1315
426   11-14-2011   Prisoner housing fee.   6-131D
427   11-14-2011   Ward number and boundaries.   1-202
428   1-9-2012   Alcoholic beverages in parks.   11-104
429   2-13-2012   Police pension and retirement system.   Part 2, Ch. 7, Art. E
430   2-13-2012   Tobacco products.   Part 10, Ch. 9
431   2-13-2012   Smoking in public places and indoor workplaces.   Part 8, Ch.
6
432   5-14-2012   Rezone.   Special
433   6-11-2012   Rezone.   Special
434   8-13-2012   Vacant property electrical inspection before
connection.   17-602B
435   10-8-2012   Dilapidated buildings; graffiti.   Part 8, Ch. 5
436   10-8-2012   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
437   11-13-2012   Rezone.   Special
438   1-14-2013   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
439   3-11-2013   Residential alleys and easements.   Part 14, Ch. 3
440   4-8-2013   Additional building regulations.   5-101.1
441   4-8-2013   Bulk water rates.   Special
442   9-9-2013   Obstructing windows in taverns or cafes selling
nonintoxicating beverages.    3-207
443   10-14-2013   Property maintenance.   Part 8, Ch. 1; 8-308B,C,D
444   11-12-2013   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
445   2-10-2014   Vehicle impound fee.   15-1315
446   5-12-2014   Annexation.   Special
447   5-12-2014   Rezone.   Special
448   9-8-2014   Unauthorized refuse disposal, hauling prohibited.   17-407
449   10-13-2014   Library Department; Board; Librarian.   11-301
450   12-8-2014   Annexation.   Special
451   1-12-2015   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs.   5-001
452   3-9-2015   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
453   3-9-2015   Elected City official compensation; training;
reimbursements.   2-505
454   5-11-2015   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
455   7-13-2015   Amend employee retirement defined contribution
plan.   Special
456   7-13-2015   Amend employee retirement defined contribution
plan.   Special
457   10-12-2015   Prohibiting texting while driving.   15-556
458   10-12-2015   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
459   11-9-2015   Tobacco use on City property prohibited.   Part 8, Ch. 7
460   11-9-2015   Fees.   11-411; 11-422; 11-432; 11-442; Part 11, Ch. 4, Art.
H
461   1-11-2016   Building permit fees.   5-107
462   1-11-2016   Electric service line installation.   17-608
463   4-11-2016   Dogs running at large.   4-130
464   4-10-2017   Annexation.   Special
465   6-12-2017   Exceptions to discharging fireworks.   10-304D
466   8-14-2017   Detachment of real property.   Special
467   9-11-2017   Smoking in public places and indoor workplaces.   8-602; 8-
603; 8-604; 8-605; 8-606
468   10-9-2017   Zoning ordinance amendment.   Special
469   1-8-2018   Court costs.   6-133
470   1-8-2018   Costs of incarceration.   6-134
471   2-12-2018   Rezone.   Special
472   3-12-2018   Annexation.   Special
473   5-14-2018   Refuse containers and service fees.   17-403; 17-404
474   9-10-2018   Intoxication and nonintoxicating beverages.   3-103; Part 3,
Ch. 2;    10-401; 10-403
475   9-10-2018   Rezone.   Special
476   9-10-2018   Medical marijuana.   Part 9, Ch. 5
477   9-10-2018   Property Maintenance Code.   Part 5, Ch. 11
478   9-10-2018   Contractors.   Part 9, Ch. 4
479   1-14-2019   Only one interment to a space.   11-211
480   2-11-2019   Rezone.   Special
481   2-11-2019   Amend Property Maintenance Code.   5-1102
482   5-13-2019   Flood damage prevention.   12-301A, 12-302, 12-303B, 12-305C1
483*   8-12-2019   Medical marijuana regulations.   18-101, 18-201 - 18-204
484   4-12-2021   Rezone.   Special
485   4-12-2021   Rezone.   Special
486   7-12-2021   Cable franchise.   Appendix
487   8-9-2021   COVID-19 regulations.   8-801 - 8-808
488   9-13-2021   Dogs; running at large.   4-130
489   2-14-2022   Youth access to tobacco.   10-1001 - 10-1005
490   2-14-2022   Annexation.   Special
491   3-14-2022   Zoning map change.   Special
492   3-14-2022   Employee retirement system.   Special
493   3-14-2022   Employee retirement system.   Special
494   6-13-2022   Rezone.   Special
495   9-14-2022   City wards.   1-202
496   3-13-2023   Manufactured homes.   12-402, 12-418, 12-478
497   7-10-2023   Modular homes.   12-402, 12-418, 12-478
